Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Faculty Revision of Faculty Evaluation Processes Current Faculty New Faculty Orientation Why Georgia Tech Colleges and Schools Life at Tech Resources Diversity & Accessibility Relocation Visit Campus Deans, Chairs, & Directors Policies & Handbooks Faculty Hiring Promotion & Tenure Mentoring Handling Grievances Internal Resources Legal Affairs Diversity & Accessibility Faculty Affairs Reps Banner Access Faculty Hiring Time Away Faculty Relocation Offer Letter Templates Internal Resources Promotion & Tenure Faculty Professional Development About Us Programs and Services Coaching and Consulting APL Mentoring Program Mentoring Resources Resources Recognition and Awards News & Events About Us Directory Contact Us EU GDPR Privacy Notice Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Affairs Reps Instructor of Record Banner Access Georgia Tech is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commissions on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, master’s, and doctoral degrees. Grading requests (Banner/OSCAR access) are granted to authorized instructional faculty of Georgia Tech whose credentials meet the standards of SACS-COC, whose original transcripts are on file with the Office of Faculty Affairs, and who has signed a FERPA Acknowledgement Form. Note that Banner instructor access is separate from Canvas instructional roles. Once the official transcript for the qualifying degree(s) for instruction has been submitted to the Office of Faculty Affairs, the authorized School or College departmental representative may request Banner instructor access on behalf of the faculty member by completing the Banner Access Request Form and uploading the signed FERPA Acknowledgement Form (2 pages). Documents should have an original signature or secure electronic signature. Official transcripts may be delivered to the Office of Faculty Affairs in Suite 111 of the A. French Building (campus mail code 0740). Regarding transcripts, please note the following guidelines: All official transcripts must be issued to the Office of Faculty Affairs or a department representative. Transcripts issued to the student must be submitted to the department representative in an official sealed envelope. Secure, certified electronic transcripts may be issued to OFA-Transcripts@gatech.edu. Once the seal on the envelope is broken by a departmental representative, s/he should sign and date the transcript's first page. For non-US institutions, a foreign credential evaluation must be provided in addition to the degree documents. For university systems in which English language transcripts are not available, please submit a copy of the diploma or foreign language transcript accompanied by a report from a professional credential evaluation service (from a AICE or NACE member organization). A credential evaluation service is not the same as a translation service; contact your local administrator for suggestions. For employees who hold joint appointments with Emory or another University System of Georgia institution, Faculty Affairs will accept a copy of the credentialing file from the other institution. For employees of Georgia Tech - Lorraine, Faculty Affairs will accept a copy of the credentialing information on file at GTL if clearly comprehensible by Faculty Affairs Staff. For Georgia Tech degrees and Graduate Student Teaching Assistant instructor requests, the unit may submit the "Advisor Transcript" generated securely via GT Reports-GTAAD. For questions related to transcripts or Banner access, please contact Faculty Affairs. Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Georgia Institute of Technology 237 Uncle Heinie Way, Suite 111 Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login