Skip to content Contact Get Involved English Menu Toggle 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Search for: About Menu Toggle Latest News History of the Fairbank Center China at Harvard Harvard Tercentenary Stele People Programs Grants Menu Toggle Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Research Menu Toggle H. C. Fung Library Research Initiatives Blog Exhibitions Publications Events About Menu Toggle Latest News History of the Fairbank Center China at Harvard Harvard Tercentenary Stele People Programs Grants Menu Toggle Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Research Menu Toggle H. C. Fung Library Research Initiatives Blog Exhibitions Publications Events Main Menu About Menu Toggle Latest News History of the Fairbank Center China at Harvard Harvard Tercentenary Stele People Programs Grants Menu Toggle Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Research Menu Toggle H. C. Fung Library Research Initiatives Blog Exhibitions Publications Events Contact Get Involved English 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) English 中文 (简体) 中文 (繁體) Search for: Homepage Advancing scholarship in all fields of China Studies Learn More Events See All Events June 2 Jun Jing – Meaningful Dying and End of Life Care in China Health The China Questions: Critical Insights into a Rising Power Accessible answers to leading questions about China from our faculty. Buy the Book Digital China Digital China is a new initiative promoting the adoption of digital tools and practices in Chinese studies. Our Experts Peter K. Bol Kwok-leong Tang Yuhua Wang See All Digital China Experts Our Research Digital China Initiative Summer Workshop 2022 Introducing the China Biographical Database (CBDB) Introducing the International Chinese Studies Virtual Events Clearing-House Featured Scholar See All Scholars National health insurance, health policy, and infection control: insights from Taiwan If China had a stronger primary healthcare system [prior to COVID-19], it could have absorbed a larger volume of patients and not created such a scare, a panic that then stressed the hospital system. Winnie Chi-man Yip Professor of the Practice of Global Health Policy and Economics, Fairbank Center Acting Director 2020-2021 Latest Research See all research Blog Post May 23, 2022 Becoming an Influencer in 13th Century China Yuan-Heng Mao describes how cultural elites shared ideas and “went viral” during the Yuan Dynasty. History Blog Post March 7, 2022 Digital China Initiative Summer Workshop 2022 The Digital China Initiative welcomes applications for a two-week in-person workshop on methods of digital scholarship Digital China Blog Post February 4, 2022 Introducing the China Biographical Database (CBDB) Introducing Harvard’s leading Digital China project. Digital China Get Involved Subscribe to the Events Newsletter Read the Latest News Apply to our programs Harvard University Friends and Support Harvard University Accessibility Fung Library Privacy Policy Contact Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College