AboutInitiativesPodcastSubscribe AboutTeamInitiativesPodcastResourcesGive Join our email list for theological and cultural commentary, educational resources, and more. Email Address Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. Emailfaith@yale.edu Phone(203) 432-8629 Mailing address409 Prospect St. New Haven, CT 06511 Media InquiriesSpeaking Engagements  What is a life worth living? We seek a world in which every person can wrestle with life's most important questions and take hold of a life worthy of our humanity. YCFC at a glance Christ & Flourishing Revitalizing theological research & Christian higher ed through Jesus Christ as the key to human flourishing. Learn more Life Worth Living Reviving dialogue with a diversity of world faiths and wisdom traditions to ask life's most important question... Learn more Meet Miroslav Volf Our founder and director is an award winning author and theologian at Yale Divinity School. Learn more Podcast Listen to For the Life of the World, our weekly podcast featuring cultural commentary, ethics, theology, and more. Learn more Christian Racist Complicity Jemar Tisby & Ryan McAnnally-Linz How Political Division Impacts Christian Unity Miroslav Volf & Evan Rosa Understanding Black Politics Andra Gillespie & Ryan McAnnally-Linz Ignore These Walls Evan Mawarire & Miroslav Volf A Prayer for Thinking Hearts Multiple Contributors Miroslav Volf Beyond Invisible / American 한 (Han) Multiple Contributors Sarah Shin 2020 Annual Report Multiple Contributors Yale Center for Faith & Culture Sedition in the Capitol Multiple Contributors Miroslav Volf Educational resources to help you envision and live a flourishing life. Above, you'll find some of our most recent and most popular resources—books, podcasts, videos, and articles—click below to browse our entire media library. Explore Initiatives Our purpose is to help people envision and pursue lives worthy of our humanity. We see theology as a way of life seeking understanding. So our work takes its shape in research, teaching, and public engagement expressed through two initiatives. Christ & Flourishing What it means to be human and how to flourish are hotly contested in our world. We believe that Jesus Christ is the key to human flourishing, and that his life and work can revitalize and transform Christian higher education, the church, and through them, the world. Life Worth Living Reviving dialogue with a diversity of world faiths and wisdom traditions to ask life's most important question: What is the shape of flourishing life? Legacy ProjectsTheology of JoyA Common Word Podcast / For the life of the world Episode No. 99 A Womb More Spacious Than Stars What is the role of the Virgin Mary in Christian spiritual formation? Art historian Matthew Milliner (Wheaton College) joins Evan Rosa for a conversation about beauty of Mary in Christian spirituality—particularly for Protestants, for whom the abuses of the past have alienated them from a core component of creedal Christianity, Mary as "Theotokos," the Mother of God. Matthew Milliner More episodes Episode No. 98 Mary Theotokos Frederica Mathewes-Green Episode No. 97 W.H. Auden's For the Time Being Jeff Reimer Episode No. 96 Robot Soft Exorcism David Dark Episode No. 95 Finding Home Through Exiles' Eyes Christian Wiman Subscribe Join our email list for theological and cultural commentary, educational resources, and more. email Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. Unimaginable Ryan McAnnally-Linz reflects on the May 24, 2022 school shooting in Uvalde, Texas. Ryan McAnnally-Linz Ryan McAnnally-Linz & others 29.5.22 Learn Education & the Life Worth Living What is an education for? What does it have to do with real life—not just any life, but a life worth living? Explore our Yale undergrad seminar taught by Matt Croasmun, and aimed at the goal of preparing students to put the question of the good life at the heart of their college education. Yale College Seminar Fall 2020 Recent posts Article The Hope that Kills You Matthew Croasmun Multiple Contributors Article Lies and Dys-order Ryan McAnnally-Linz Multiple Contributors Article What More Than Bread Constitutes Our Lives? Matthew Croasmun Multiple Contributors Video Gathering Joy Willie Jennings Multiple Contributors Video The Future of Theology George Marsden Multiple Contributors Video Life Worth Living and the University Jonathan Holloway Multiple Contributors Video Life Worth Living and the Utilitarian Tradition Julia Wise Multiple Contributors Video Reading Theology as a Scholar and Teacher of Religious Studies Tyler Roberts Multiple Contributors Video Virtue and Flourishing Katie Grimes Multiple Contributors Video Theology in Our Pluralistic Moment Katherine Sonderegger Multiple Contributors Video A Muslim Vision of the Life Worth Living Shaykh Hamza Yusuf Multiple Contributors Video 2015 Christ and the Good Life Course at Yale Divinity School Miroslav Volf Multiple Contributors View All Who we are  Miroslav Volf Founder & Director, Yale Center for Faith & Culture The Yale Center for Faith & Culture is led by theologian Miroslav Volf, the Henry B. Wright Professor of Systematic Theology at Yale Divinity School. He is author/editor of more than 20 books, including Exclusion & Embrace—which was named one of the best 100 books of the twentieth century—as well as A Public Faith: On How Followers of Christ Should Serve the Common Good, Allah: A Christian Response,and most recently, For the Life of the World: Theology That Makes a Difference. full bio→ meet our team → Your generosity makes our work possible. Everything we do is made possible by the charitable gifts of our friends and supporters. Learn more about how you can join us in helping people envision and pursue lives worthy of our humanity. Published books See All Exclusion and Embrace Miroslav Volf Miroslav Volf & others If the healing word of the Gospel is to be heard today, Christian theology must find ways of speaking that address the hatred of the other. Is there any hope of embracing our enemies? Of opening the door to reconciliation? Let us be theologians for the sake of the life, the true life, of the world. Miroslav Volf & Matt Croasmun, For the Life of the World Back to Top Join our email list for theological and cultural commentary, educational resources, and more. Email Address Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. connectSubscribeGiveContactMedia Inquiries Initiatives Christ & Flourishing Life Worth LivingLegacy Projects MediaBooksPodcastArticlesVideos LearnAboutThe Team © 2020 Yale Center for Faith & Culture Privacy Policy Accessibility at Yale Designed and built by Whiteboard 