University of Notre Dame myND We Are ND ThinkND IrishCompass Home pray live serve explore Join the Notre Dame family of faith! Hear God's Word with our Daily Gospel Reflection. Share a prayer card from campus. Request a prayer from the Grotto. Be moved by a story of faithfulness. We also invite you to listen to new episodes from our seventh season of the Everyday Holiness podcast: Meet Patrick and Margaret Manning, who discuss the relationships that have shaped their lives and marriage, the formation that has been central to their ongoing growth in faith, and how they have helped each other during times of loss and in the pursuit of holiness. Listen to more FaithND podcast episodes here >> In partnership with Campus Ministry, we are pleased to share videos of Daily Masses in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Please Note: New Video Player To improve the viewer experience, a new video player service is being used for all live streams. As we transition to this new video player, please go directly to the Campus Ministry site to view Mass today. Thank you for your patience. Friday Masses will be streamed live at 11:30 a.m. Eastern. The most recently recorded Mass will be available for viewing by later in the day. Each Sunday, Mass will be broadcast live on CatholicTV at 10 a.m. Eastern. For more information about this overall outreach, click here. Gospel Reflection Jessica Keating Floyd Program Director, Notre Dame Office of Life and Human Dignity We live in a world of harried social interactions and divided attention, characterized by what Pope Francis calls a "throw-away culture." The recently leaked Supreme Court draft ruling that would overturn Roe v. Wade has heightened these paradoxically anxious and apathetic feelings as many respond in anger and fear. But today's encounter between Mary and Elizabeth stands out and offers us a vision of how we might imagine a positive post-Roe society. Mary sets out "in haste" to visit Elizabeth. Pregnant herself, she does not undertake the 90+ mile journey for a quick "hello," a cup of tea, and a half-hearted, "how are you?" No, she goes in haste to remain. One in shared purity of heart, their joyous greeting slips seamlessly into a shared adoration of God. Amid the drama of this long-awaited encounter, steeped in rich theological meaning, it's easy to forget that Mary remains with Elizabeth for three months. We might wonder what these two women did during these moments together. Daily work? Preparation for the birth of Elizabeth's long-hoped-for child? I imagine it included moments of deep conversation—the kind that can only occur when time is not counted, measured, and given provisionally with hesitation under the weight of other pressures. The life of grace, Trinitarian life, is possible when we abide with one another, transforming time into a space for joy. This is what an authentic culture of life might look like if we emulate two features of the Visitation: Mary's haste and her remaining with Elizabeth. This urgency, leisure, haste, and faithfulness mark the emotionally rich and demanding discipline of profound encounter and extended accompaniment. Such a spiritual discipline is the key of the Sisters of Life, who accompany young women through unexpected pregnancies and maintain a presence in their lives long after. These sisters partnered with the McGrath Institute’s Office of Life and Dignity to develop the INTO LIFE series, which shares the gift of their ministry of encounter and accompaniment with the Church. Let us pray to share in this charism of Visitation for a world aching for the embrace of Mary's maternal love. Read More Saint of the Day On this feast of the Visitation, let us join Mary and Elizabeth to proclaim the greatness of God! View Saint SUBSCRIBE TO THE Daily Gospel Reflection Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Sign up for the Daily Gospel Reflection Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone: 574-631-6000 faith@nd.edu University of Notre Dame