University of Notre Dame Alumni Association Home pray live serve explore Menu Search Archives 2013 Archives 2014 Archives 2015 Archives 2016 Archives 2017 Archives 2018 Archives 2019 Archives 2020 Archives 2021 Archives 2022 Subscribe to faith.nd.edu Subscribe to Gospel, Reflection, and Prayer Fill out the information below to begin receiving the Daily Gospel Reflection email from FaithND, which includes the gospel reading for the day, a short reflection written by someone in the Notre Dame family, a prayer composed by a Holy Cross priest, and a link to learn more about the saint of the day. The email is sent out at 4 a.m. ET every morning. It is free and open to anyone. NOTE: If you have previously subscribed to the Daily Gospel Reflection and are no longer receiving it, do not re-submit this form. Instead, please contact the myNotreDame Help Desk at onlinehelp@alumni.nd.edu and we'll be happy to assist you. Thank you. First Name "First Name" is required. Last Name "Last Name" is required. Preferred Email Email "E-mail" is required. Confirm "E-mail" confirmed text is required. Emails do not match! "E-mail"needs to contain a valid entry. Your password must have each of the above components and be at least 8 characters. Does Not Pass Low Moderate Secure Very Secure Re-type your password. Re-type your email. Please verify your input by typing it again. Passwords do not match! Emails do not match! Inputs do not match! Passwords match! Emails match! Inputs match! Please check the box below if you wish to begin receiving the Daily Gospel Reflection. Yes, I would like to signup. "Yes, I would like to signup." is required. How did you hear about the Daily Gospel Reflection? (optional) Check all that apply How did you hear about the Daily Gospel Reflection? (optional) Check all that apply Family member Friend ND Club ND Class Church Advertisement Social Media Other Specify Other: Please Wait... Home pray live serve explore Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Sign up for the Daily Gospel Reflection Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone: 574-631-6000 faith@nd.edu University of Notre Dame