By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation About AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Graduate Contact Admissions AcademicsExpand Collapse section Programs & Degrees Exercise Science Food Studies Human Development & Family Science Marriage & Family Therapy Nutrition Science & Dietetics Public Health School of Social Work Sport Management Students Research Alumni & Friends ContactExpand Collapse section Contact Us College Directory Get Involved Give Social Media Search Search People Search Home About Us News & Headlines News & Headlines Important Links: Faculty in The News Submit News & Events Filter by Department: Dean --Human Development & Family Science ---Food Studies ---Nutrition Science & DieteticsExercise ScienceFalk College NewsHuman Development & Family ScienceMarriage & Family TherapyNutrition & Food Studies -Food Studies -Nutrition Science & DieteticsPublic Health -StudentsResearch CenterSocial WorkSport ManagementStudent Services -AnnouncementsUncategorized Search News: Submit clear results Passion for Social Work May 26, 2022 Bre'Yona Montalvo knows she wants to be in a helping profession. As the first recipient of the Sunflower Scholarship established by Falk College Advisory Board member and School of Social Work alumna Stacy Helfstein, Montalvo is on her way... Educator Award Winner May 23, 2022 Kay Stearns Bruening, an assistant professor in Falk’s Nutrition Science and Dietetics program, was selected by a committee of her peers as the 2022 North East Region Outstanding Dietetic Educator in the Didactic Program in Dietetics category... Honored for Excellence May 19, 2022 Sara Vasilenko, an assistant professor in the Department of Human Development and Family Science, was recognized as one of nine Syracuse University professors to receive a 2022 Excellence in Graduate Education Faculty Award... Falk Sport Graduate Students Host Charity Event May 18, 2022 Graduate students in Falk College’s Sport Venue and Event Management (SVEM) master’s program at Syracuse University held a charity event at SU’s Dome on April 9... Class of 2022 Honored with Sport Management and Sport Analytics Awards May 14, 2022 Falk College's Department of Sport Management is pleased to recognize the outstanding work of its undergraduate and graduate students in the Class of 2022 in sport management, sport analytics and sport venue and event management. The Department of Sport Management held an awards celebration on Friday, May 13 in Falk College. Students who were recognized for academic excellence, philanthropic work and post-graduate plans included: . . . Sticks Together May 12, 2022 No idea is too big for Sarah Thompson, a sport management major and member of the Syracuse University women's ice hockey team who is spending three weeks in Argentina teaching children from a low-income neighborhood how to play street hockey... Graduate School’s ‘Greatest Honor’ May 11, 2022 Ying Zhang came to Falk College as an international student, a first-generation Ph.D. student, a woman of color, and someone speaking English as a second language. Through it all, Zhang persevered and now the mother of two is being honored as Syracuse University’s 2022 Graduate School student marshal... Faculty of the Year Awards May 11, 2022 Professors Kenneth Marfilius, David Meluni, and Latha Ramalingam were honored with Falk College Faculty of the Year awards for their outstanding teaching, scholarship, and internal and professional service contributions in 2022... Class of 2022 Honored with Nutrition Science and Dietetics Awards May 10, 2022 The Nutrition Science and Dietetics in Falk College is pleased to recognize the outstanding work of its undergraduate and graduate students for excellence Closing the Digital Divide May 9, 2022 To examine the digital divide and its entanglement with various forms of systemic inequality in the Syracuse area, Falk's School of Social Work hosted the 22nd James L. Stone Legislative Policy Day April 22 at the Onondaga County Courthouse... 1 2 3 4 5 ... 20 ... 40 ... 60 ... 80 ... 94 ❯ Falk College, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Faculty & Staff