By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation About AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Graduate Contact Admissions AcademicsExpand Collapse section Programs & Degrees Exercise Science Food Studies Human Development & Family Science Marriage & Family Therapy Nutrition Science & Dietetics Public Health School of Social Work Sport Management Students Research Alumni & Friends ContactExpand Collapse section Contact Us College Directory Get Involved Give Social Media Search Search People Search Home Marriage & Family Therapy Academic Programs Academic Programs Marriage and Family Therapy M.A. The master of arts program in Marriage and Family Therapy is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE). Designed to meet the academic requirements for Clinical Membership in the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy, it prepares students for rewarding work in marriage and couples counseling and family therapy in private practice, mental health facilities, social service agencies, and school districts, among many other organizations. Learn about this program Marriage and Family Therapy M.A. – Online Study at your own pace while continuing to meet your commitments to work, family, and other priorities. A 60-credit online curriculum includes 51 required credits and 9 elective credits with a short residency which enhances student-faculty relationships and promotes skill building. A required 500-hour internship with individuals, couples, and families in your local community is built into the program. The online master of arts program in Marriage and Family Therapy is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE). The program is designed to meet the academic requirements for Clinical Membership in the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy. Learn about this program Child Therapy CAS The Certificate of Advanced Studies in Child Therapy is available for graduate students, clinicians, mental health professionals, and practitioners from allied disciplines who intend to expand their knowledge and skills in clinical practice with children and their families or care-givers. The Certificate of Advanced Studies in Child Therapy addresses the concerns expressed by state and federal agencies about the critical shortage of mental health professionals who are trained to address the needs of children, adolescents and their families. Learn about this program Trauma-Informed Practice CAS The Certificate of Advanced Study (CAS) in Trauma-Informed Practice is structured for clinicians, mental health professionals, and practitioners from allied disciplines to expand their knowledge and skills in the field of trauma response and intervention. Trauma-informed practice is based on an understanding of the vulnerabilities or triggers of trauma survivors that traditional service delivery approaches may exacerbate so that these services and programs can be more supportive and avoid re-traumatization. Learn about this program Marriage and Family Therapy Ph.D. The doctoral program in Marriage and Family Therapy at Syracuse University seeks to prepare scholars who will advance theory, research, and teaching in the field of marriage and family therapy. Students are prepared primarily for teaching, supervisory, and research positions in graduate degree-granting institutions, training institutes, and health care settings. The program builds upon a clinical Master’s Degree in Marriage and Family Therapy, and is designed to provide students with an understanding of advanced theory in marriage and family therapy with expertise in process and outcome research methodology in marriage and family therapy. The Doctoral Program in Marriage and Family Therapy is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE) Learn about this program Our Degrees Marriage & Family Therapy M.A. Marriage and Family Therapy M.A. - Online Child Therapy CAS Trauma-Informed Practice CAS Marriage & Family Therapy Ph.D. Falk College, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Faculty & Staff