Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation About AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Graduate Contact Admissions AcademicsExpand Collapse section Programs & Degrees Exercise Science Food Studies Human Development & Family Science Marriage & Family Therapy Nutrition Science & Dietetics Public Health School of Social Work Sport Management Students Research Alumni & Friends ContactExpand Collapse section Contact Us College Directory Get Involved Give Social Media Search Search People Search Home Marriage & Family Therapy Academic Programs Marriage & Family Therapy Ph.D. Marriage & Family Therapy Ph.D. Department of Marriage & Family Therapy The Department of Marriage and Family Therapy (MFT), in existence for nearly five decades, is the longest-standing department of its kind in the country and accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE). The 72 credit doctoral program in Marriage and Family Therapy at Syracuse University seeks to prepare scholars who will advance theory, research, and teaching in the field of marriage and family therapy. Students are prepared primarily for teaching, supervisory, and research positions in graduate degree-granting institutions, training institutes, and health care settings. The program builds upon a clinical Master’s Degree in Marriage and Family Therapy, and is designed to provide students with an understanding of advanced theory in marriage and family therapy with expertise in process and outcome research methodology in marriage and family therapy. The Ph.D. in Marriage and Family Therapy requires 72 credits. Students are allowed to transfer up to 33 credit hours from an M.A. in MFT or equivalent. Additional requirements include 12 credits of advanced theory and practice; 12 credits of advanced research methodology; 3 credits of elective; 6 credits of advanced practicum; and 6 credits of dissertation. Requirements also include a 9-month clinical internship and satisfactory completion of the doctoral qualifying examination and the doctoral dissertation and related oral examination. The Doctoral Program in Marriage and Family Therapy is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE) Why this degree makes a difference in society today…tomorrow… Today more than 50,000 marriage and family therapists treat individuals, couples, and families nationwide. Membership in AAMFT has grown from 237 members in 1960 to more than 25,500 in 2015. This growth is a result, in part, of renewed public awareness of the value of family life and concern about the increased stresses on families in a rapidly changing world. Sample Courses From core courses in family therapy, systems dynamics, couple therapy and psychopathology to elective explorations into family theory and therapy, Falk College’s marriage and family therapy courses challenge students to find new solutions to meet society’s needs. Our offerings include classes such as: Supervision in Marriage and Family Therapy Cultural Diversity: Family Theory and Therapy Family Violence: Theory and Therapy Advanced Family Therapy Theory Qualitative Research Methods in Family Therapy View all course requirements and electives Commitment to Diversity The Syracuse University Department of Marriage and Family Therapy defines diversity incorporating the concept of intersectionality, which acknowledges historical, social and political factors that uniquely locate individuals within social structures of privilege and oppression influencing unequal access to opportunities and resources. Factors that contribute to individuals’ unique location include, but are not limited to social categories such as gender, race, age, culture, class, sexuality, ability, immigration status, religious beliefs and physical appearance. Syracuse University’s Marriage and Family Therapy department demonstrates commitment to diversity and inclusion. Faculty and staff prepare students to value the creation of socially-just, anti-racist, LGBTQ-Affirmative and anti-discriminatory environments. Students are expected to engage in cultural humility, awareness of self in relation to others, and an understanding of psychosocial and cultural contexts of issues presented in clinical practice and research. We believe that valuing each other’s similarities and differences helps us to deepen our understanding of relationships in systems. Students are required to see clients with diverse backgrounds/experiences and may not choose their caseloads based on race, class, gender/gender expression, sexual orientation, religion, culture, age, or other diversity category. Degree Requirements The Ph.D. in Marriage and Family Therapy requires 72 credits. Students are allowed to transfer up to 33 credit hours from an M.A. in MFT or equivalent. Additional requirements include 12 credits of advanced theory and practice; 12 credits of advanced research methodology; 3 credits of elective; 6 credits of advanced practicum; and 6 credits of dissertation. Requirements also include a 9-month clinical internship and satisfactory completion of the doctoral qualifying examination and the doctoral dissertation and related oral examination. Careers The doctoral program in Marriage and Family Therapy at Syracuse University prepares students for teaching, supervisory, and research positions in graduate degree-granting institutions, training institutes, and health care settings. Tuition and Financial Aid New reduced 2021-22 tuition for graduate students: Beginning Summer 2021, tuition rates for matriculated students in Marriage and Family Therapy programs were reduced from $1,734 to $1,084 per credit hour for the 2021-22 academic year! This reduced pricing is for both new and current students. With few exceptions, the reduced rates can not be combined with other funding awards and are not applicable toward prior semesters’ tuition. For questions about the new tuition pricing, please contact Falk Admissions. Professional Licensure Disclosure Professional licensure/certification requirements vary from state to state, which may affect your ability to apply for a professional license/certification upon the completion of the program. Please view our Professional Licensure Disclosure Statement regarding the Marriage & Family Therapy Ph.D. program’s ability to meet specific state licensure or certification requirements. Getting Admitted A completed master’s degree in Marriage and Family Therapy, or the equivalent, is required. GRE’s are required for all students applying to the PH.D. program. An admissions committee consisting of MFT faculty members will consider requests for admission to the program. Apply Today! Learn More: For additional admissions information, contact the Office of Admissions at falk@syr.edu, or fill out our online form: Get more information! Return to top Explore this degree Overview Commitment to Diversity Degree Requirements Careers Tuition and Financial Aid Professional Licensure Disclosure Getting Admitted Our exceptional programs View more videos Related Programs Addiction Studies CAS Child Therapy CAS Trauma-Informed Practice CAS Getting admitted Learn more about getting admitted For admissions questions, contact the Office of Admissions at falk@syr.edu, 315.443.5555, or fill out our online form: Get information Important links Program Goals & Mission Student Learning Outcomes Student Achievement Data Program Handbook Financial Aid Deadlines Academic Calendar Course Catalog Related news Activist by night, student by day Montiniquë McEachern, Ph.D. realized that activism and relational therapy are not separate matters. McEachern says queer women of color need representation in the psychological world. Falk College, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Faculty & Staff