Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation About AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Graduate Contact Admissions AcademicsExpand Collapse section Programs & Degrees Exercise Science Food Studies Human Development & Family Science Marriage & Family Therapy Nutrition Science & Dietetics Public Health School of Social Work Sport Management Students Research Alumni & Friends ContactExpand Collapse section Contact Us College Directory Get Involved Give Social Media Search Search People Search Home Nutrition Science & Dietetics Academic Programs Dietetic Internship Program, CAS Dietetic Internship Program, CAS Department of Food Studies & Nutrition | Nutrition Science & Dietetics Program The Dietetic Internship Program provides students with the opportunity to gain the necessary competency for careers as entry-level dietitians. This program is for students coming out of an accredited nutrition degree program who are seeking to become entry-level dietitians and take the exam to become a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). The program builds upon the foundation, knowledge, and skills students have acquired from accredited didactic programs in dietetics. The carefully structured program includes a minimum 1200 hours of supervised practice experience in the application of the nutrition care process and model to community based food and nutrition settings and health care nutrition based settings and is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. The concentration area is in program monitoring and outcomes management. Upon completion of the program, graduates are eligible to take the registration examination for dietitians offered through the Commission on Dietetics Registration (CDR). Successful completion of the RDN exam is usually a prerequisite for state licensure or certification. Future Education Model Syracuse University has applied to open a new and exciting program in August, 2023 to prepare Registered Dietitian Nutritionists. The Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) released the Future Education Model Accreditation Standards for programs in nutrition and dietetics. These accreditation standards integrate didactic coursework with supervised experiential learning in a competency-based curriculum designed to prepare nutrition and dietetics practitioners for future practice. Syracuse University demonstrated its leadership in education by submitting an application to be part of the third cohort of programs to be accredited by ACEND under these new standards. The ACEND Board has approved our phase 1 application and will make a final accreditation decision on the program in 2022 after review of our phase 2 report. If successful, following the phase 2 report review by the ACEND Board, we will begin recruiting students during the 2022-2023 academic year. Contact Nicole Beckwith, nmbeckwi@syr.edu, (315) 443-2396 for more information. Affiliated Agencies Our interns work within diverse agencies listed in the Dietetic Internship handbook. Program Objective Our Mission & Goals The Dietetic Internship at Syracuse University seeks to prepare graduates to become entry-level registered dietitian nutritionists to fulfill the employment needs of nutrition and dietetics employers and to positively affect individuals, families, and communities through the application of the nutrition care process with a concentration in program monitoring, evaluation, and outcomes management. To prepare graduates for success as entry-level registered dietitian nutritionists Graduates will fulfill the employment needs of nutrition and dietetics employers The program will prepare graduates to value life-long learning and self-assessment in order to manage their personal and professional development Program objectives can be found in the Dietetic Internship handbook. Outcome data is available upon request by contacting the program director: Nicole Beckwith Credentialing Exam Once you have completed your internship you will be eligible to take a Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) credentialing exam to become an RDN. After January 1, 2024, the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) will require a minimum of a master’s degree to be eligible to take the credentialing exam to become a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). Learn more about this requirement in our online Program Handbook. Our admissions team can help you understand this new master’s degree requirement, contact us if you have any questions. Professional Licensure Obtaining your license to practice or Professional licensure/certification requirements vary from state to state, which may affect your ability to apply for a professional license/certification upon the completion of the program. Please view our program’s Professional Licensure Disclosure Statement regarding the Dietetic Internship Program’s ability to meet specific state licensure or certification requirements. For additional information about state licensure requirements visit the Commission of Dietetic Registration website. For additional information about becoming a Certified Dietitian Nutritionist in New York State visit the N.Y.S. Office of the Professions website. Accreditation The Dietetic Internship Program at Syracuse University is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2190, Chicago, IL 60606-6995, 1.800.877.1600 ×5400). Our program is granted full accreditation through June 30, 2022. Expenses & Financial Aid Expenses A current estimated Cost of Attendance can be obtained from Syracuse University Financial Aid Office. Dietetic Internship estimated cost of attendance can be found in the Dietetic Internship handbook. Financial Aid and Scholarships Interns qualify for financial aid through the graduate school in the form of loans. General financial aid information can be found at the Syracuse University Office of Financial Aid. William W. Allen Nutrition Scholarship William W. Allen Nutrition Scholarships are designed to raise awareness of hunger in America by supporting dietetic interns as they learn about the ways in which dietitians can contribute to community nutrition programs that address widespread food insecurity. Scholarship awards are applied toward the internship program fee. Interested students should submit a one-page letter of application stating their interest in community nutrition and any relevant experience after matching with the program. Getting Admitted In order to apply for the internship, you must have earned a degree from an institution offering an accredited didactic program in dietetics, and have earned a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 in undergraduate coursework and 3.0 in nutrition (DPD) coursework. Syracuse University offers Nutrition B.S., Nutrition Science M.A., and Nutrition Science M.S. degrees. Applicants are selected through D&D Digital Systems (visit their website or call 515.292.0490), a computerized matching service that serves as a clearinghouse to match internship applicants and programs. The process requires applicants to go online and register with D&D Digital before their deadline by completing an online profile and payment. Applicants rank/ prioritize the list of internships after they register. In addition to the D& D process, applicants to Syracuse University’s Dietetic Internship will use the online centralized internship application found on the Dietetic Internship Centralized Application System (DICAS) website. DICAS is an online applicant portal, for use by students who are applying to Dietetic Internship programs that participate in the DICAS Match. The DICAS Online is a service of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. The DICAS online offers applicants a convenient, state-of-the-art, web-based application service that will allow them to apply to any number of participating dietetic internship programs by completing a single online application. The DICAS Online was specifically designed by DICAS to simplify and streamline the application process while providing considerable flexibility, electronic submission of applications, ongoing communication with applicants, and excellent customer support. If you need accommodations or assistance regarding the accessibility of the DICAS Online, please contact customer support at 617-612-2855. The deadline for the application to both DICAS and Syracuse University is February 15, 2022. A $35 non-refundable application fee for matriculated Syracuse University students or a $40 non-refundable application fee for non-Syracuse University applicants is required by February 15, 2022. Checks should be made payable to Syracuse University and mailed to: Syracuse University Department of Nutrition Science and Dietetics 550L White Hall Syracuse, NY 13244-3240 Learn More: For additional admissions information, visit the Dietetic Internship Handbook, contact the Office of Admissions at falk@syr.edu, or fill out our online form: Get more information! Return to top Explore this degree Overview Future Education Model Affiliated Agencies Program Objective Credentialing Exam Professional Licensure Accreditation Expenses & Financial Aid Getting Admitted Our Facilities View more videos Related Programs Nutrition B.S. Getting admitted Learn more about getting admitted For admissions questions, contact the Office of Admissions at falk@syr.edu, 315.443.5555, or fill out our online form: Get information Important links Our Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Dietetic Internship Program Handbook About Our Facilities Program Calendar Financial Aid Deadlines Academic Calendar Course Catalog Falk College, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Faculty & Staff