Skip to Main Content Brown University Family Weekend Search Menu Site Navigation Home 2021 Schedule Friday, October 15 Saturday, October 16 Sunday, October 17 Plan Your Visit Future Dates FAQs Search Family Weekend Plan Your Visit Plan Your Visit Learn what you need to know about lodging, parking, accessibility accommodations and more. Travel and Lodging Directions to campus, resources for getting around Providence, and a list of nearby hotels. Driving Directions and Parking Find the best route to campus as well as locate campus parking lots. Visitor Policy Brown University has required all students, faculty, and staff to be vaccinated against COVID-19. For the safety of our community, we are encouraging those who are vaccinated against COVID-19 to join us for Family Weekend and asking unvaccinated guests to receive a negative result from a COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours prior to arrival on campus. All participants in Family Weekend are considered limited-duration visitors to campus and must abide by Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy, including the mask wearing requirements in place at the time of Family Weekend. Currently Brown requires all individuals — vaccinated or not — to wear masks indoors at all times. Masks are also required at large outdoor gatherings that include individuals from outside the Brown community (who may or may not be vaccinated), and that is likely to be the case for Family Weekend events and gatherings. As Family Weekend approaches, please visit the Campus Activity Status page of our Healthy Brown website to learn more about the health protocols in place at that time. Accessibility Accommodations For a map indicating accessibility routes and entrances to buildings, please download Brown's Accessibility Map. Requests for interpreting should be made with as much notice as possible. Please email universityevents@brown.edu for more information. Accessible restrooms can be found on the lower level of Sayles Hall, down the hall and to the left from the accessible entrance. Accessible restrooms are also available on the 2nd floor of the Campus Center (Faunce House) and on the lower level in Salomon. Elevators are available in both those buildings. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home 2021 Schedule Friday, October 15 Saturday, October 16 Sunday, October 17 Plan Your Visit Future Dates FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Plan Your Visit Open details for Plan Your Visit Bookmark this Page