Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri MU Calendar Map Student Health & Well-Being Search search Mizzou Families menu Advice A-to-Z Eventsarrow_drop_down Events Family Weekend Stay Informed Contactarrow_drop_down Contact Us Ask a Question Concerned About a Student? Students’ Families Make the Difference! Students’ families are an integral part of Mizzou. The support and encouragement of parents and other family members are critical elements in the success of students here at the University of Missouri. Mizzou Families values the critical role you play for students and appreciates the opportunity to partner with families in positively impacting their student’s experience. Mizzou Families in the Office of the Dean of Students is the primary liaison and resource for parents and family members of MU students. We provide programs and services designed to inform, educate and assist MU families. These include events such as Family Weekend, Summer Welcome presentations and resources such as the Mizzou Families newsletter, and assistance via the family assistance telephone line and email account. We hope you’ll take full advantage of the services and resources that we provide. We are your link to the university, and welcome your feedback. Best of luck to you and your student this year, and throughout their academic career! Join Our Mailing List Save the Date! Mizzou Family Weekend is Sept. 16–18, 2022. More information will be released throughout the summer. Sign up for our monthly newsletter for updates. Stay Informed Subscribe to the Mizzou Families newsletter! MizzouOne From orientation to graduation, MizzouOne makes it easy to find answers, resources and services. MU Logo University of Missouri Office of the Dean of Students families@missouri.edu 2202 MU Student Center Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 888-631-1098 MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy