Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Family Resource Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home About Us Student/Parent Advisory Board SPAB Meeting Minutes and CFR Coordinator Reports SPAB Roster Our Five Year Plan Map Contact Us Care.com Membership Eldercare Resources Alumni & Parents Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Welcome to the Family Resource Center Welcome! The Family Resource Center advocates for and provides quality programming and services to all OSU families with dependent care needs to support the academic, professional and personal growth and success of the whole person. Learn about our resources, from our various childcare opportunities to campus lactation rooms to elder care. Click here for our current brochure. If you have any questions about the services we offer please do not hesitate to email or call our office. We look forward to hearing from you! Amy, Kristi, Erika & Robynn Current Operations Campus Child Care Centers: Both campus child care centers (Azalea & Beaver Beginnings) are open. Our Little Village is open for Spring 2022 (Summer term registration opens 5/23/22). Office Hours- Champinefu Lodge: FRC staff will be in the office 9am-4pm Monday-Friday. The Lodge itself is open 8am-7pm Monday-Thursday and 8am-3pm Friday. If we are not there/available, you are welcome to leave a note for us at the front desk or slip it under our door. Kristi King (OLV and Student Family Coordinator) is working from her new office in OLV Milne. Feel free to drop-in or set up an appointment. Last Updated: 5/12/2022 I Want To CONNECT WITH OTHER PARENTS @ OSU tell us who you are find a lactation room lEARN ABOUT family housing look into financial resources find child care Learn about Elder Care Resources Find family friendly spaces on campus LEARN ABOUT SERVICES BY LEARNING LOCATION make a donation Help us better serve our employees struggling to afford quality child care. For more information click here Child Care Centers Child Care Centers Read about our child care centers - Azalea, Beaver Beginnings, Our Little Village, OSU Child Development Lab, and KidSpirit - and find the fit that's right for you and your child. Resources & Services Resources & Services Learn about our resources (financial, community, eldercare, international), find a lactation room, check out the Student Parent Board, and find tips on how to balance your work and family life. Events Events Find out what's coming up this week and what's happening from term to term. About Us / Contact About Us / Contact Read about who we are and the ways you can contact us. Contact Info Family Resource Center 541-737-4906 Send us an email! 1030 SW Madison Ave Champinefu Lodge 211 & 213 Corvallis OR, 97331 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Twitter