Skip to Main Content Brown University Family Weekend Search Menu Site Navigation Home 2021 Schedule Friday, October 15 Saturday, October 16 Sunday, October 17 Plan Your Visit Future Dates FAQs Search Family Weekend Family Weekend Recap Relive the excitement of Family Weekend 2021. Family Weekend Recap Relive the excitement of Family Weekend 2021. From amazing a cappella performances, fascinating forums and an inspiring keynote to a special Brown-sponsored WaterFire — revisit all that Family Weekend 2021 had to offer. https://www.youtube.com/embed/4u36iNMSigo Brown at WaterFire Providence Brown cosponsored the weekend’s Saturday night WaterFire lighting, which celebrated Rhode Island’s Black, indigenous and people of color communities. 1 of 10 Soledad O’Brien, journalist, broadcaster and parent of a Brown sophomore, joined Brown President Christina H. Paxson during Friday evening’s welcome festivities and delivered the weekend’s keynote address to families. 2 of 10 Families took Brown-themed portraits with their students. 3 of 10 Students and their families mingled on the College Green in front of the Stephen Robert Campus Center. 4 of 10 A panel of Brown experts discussed the risks of social media, violence and social isolation among adolescents. 5 of 10 Parents and family members watched as ARRR!!!, Brown's pirate a capella group, performed under Wayland Arch. 6 of 10 The Brown Bears took on the Princeton Tigers at the Family Weekend football game. 7 of 10 Brown senior Elvia Perez and her father watched the Family Weekend football game against Princeton. 8 of 10 The Brown Band marched through campus with alumni and parents during Family Weekend. 9 of 10 Brown co-sponsored a Saturday night lighting of WaterFire, the award-winning public art installation in Providence, during this year's Family Weekend. 10 of 10 Friends and family members of Brown students mingled and sampled locally themed refreshments at the University tent on Market Square during WaterFire. Students, family members from across the globe reunite in Providence for Brown’s Family Weekend From forums on the Open Curriculum to an evening at the city’s renowned WaterFire, parents and loved ones joined their Brown students to get a taste of the University’s rich academic, cultural and civic life. Read More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home 2021 Schedule Friday, October 15 Saturday, October 16 Sunday, October 17 Plan Your Visit Future Dates FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Family Weekend Recap Open details for Family Weekend Recap Bookmark this Page