Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Dean of Students » Parent & Family Programs Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Family Weekends Resources Contact Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Family Weekends Resources Contact START Experts Panel - Safety and Services START Experts Panel - Health and Wellness START Experts Panel - Academic Support Thank you for joining us for Spring Family Weekend! Make sure to mark your calendars for Fall Family Weekend: November 11th-13th, 2022 Our webchat is open from 10am-4pm Monday through Friday PST. Click on the icon in the bottom right corner to chat with us! Welcome. Information found on this website is meant to be helpful and guide you in supporting your student and their success. We believe the more informed you are about OSU, the better resources you can be for your students. New Student Programs & Family Outreach serves as a primary liaison between parents and family members and the university. We offer some programs and resources and can also help refer to you a more appropriate resource if needed. Download the 2021-2022 Parent & Family Handbook 2021-2022 Parent & Family Handbook Download our free calendar here! 2021-2022 Parent & Family Calendar If you are interested in the ways we intentionally support new students and are curious how you can contribute to your student's success, please sign up for our New Student Quarterly e-Newsletter. Sign up for the New Student Quarterly If you want to receive important updates relevant to our university community and operations, please subscribe to our university updates email list. Sign up for OSU email updates for families We have recently launched a new First Year Parent and Family Newsletter! Every other month, we will send tips, updates, and resources to help you support your student. View the most recent newsletter here Sign up for the newsletter here! In addition, we welcome you to check out the Oregon State University Alumni Association’s (OSUAA) new quarterly Parent and Family Newsletter– full of ways to engage and get connected to fellow Beaver parents and families! View the most recent newsletter here! Instagram Facebook Twitter Contact Info Office of Student Orientation Waldo Hall 102 Corvallis, OR 97331 541.737.7627 [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer