Skip to Main Content Brown University Family Weekend Search Menu Site Navigation Home 2021 Schedule Friday, October 15 Saturday, October 16 Sunday, October 17 Plan Your Visit Future Dates FAQs Search Family Weekend Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Find answers to your questions about Family Weekend 2021. How do I register for Family Weekend? While there is no cost to attend Family Weekend, we ask that you register to let us know that you plan to attend either virtually or in person. By registering you will continue to receive Family Weekend communications. The form will be open until noon on Thursday, October 14. Only one registration per family is required. Register now When will the online schedule of events be available? The full schedule of events will be available in early October. Is there a virtual option for families who cannot attend in person? Yes! Families who are unable to attend in person will still be able to access some of the weekend's key events, including the president's welcome, keynote address and academic forums. You can find links to watch each livestream on the event listing on the Schedule page. Where do I go upon arriving on campus? Guests planning to attend in person should stop by the Family Weekend check-in tables located on College Green (near the Faunce Steps). Check-in tables will be open from noon to 6 p.m. on Friday, October 15 and from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday, October 16. Do we need to wear masks? Yes. Guests must abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. Is a COVID-19 vaccination required for guests? We are encouraging those who are vaccinated to join us for Family Weekend and asking that unvaccinated guests receive a negative result from a COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours prior to arrival on campus. All participants in Family Weekend are considered limited-duration visitors to campus and must abide by Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy, including the mask wearing requirements in place at the time of Family Weekend. Are family members able to test at Brown's COVID-19 testing sites? Brown’s COVID-19 testing sites are available only to Brown faculty, students and staff. For information about testing in and around Providence, visit the Rhode Island Department of Health website or search the RIDOH COVID-19 Testing Site Locator. Where should we park? All Brown University parking lots on the main campus (except lots 57 and 71) will be open to Family Weekend guests starting at 5 p.m. on Friday through Sunday afternoon. The Power Street lot (both lower and upper levels) at the corner of Power and Thayer streets is the largest lot on campus. The top level is entered on Power Street and the bottom level is entered on the corner of Williams and Brook streets. Learn more about parking on the Family Weekend Driving Directions and Parking page. How do I access Brown's Guest Wi-Fi? Guests are welcome to log onto Brown's visitor network. Wireless is available in all residence halls, on the College Green and in many classrooms. To access service: from your list of available networks, choose Brown-Guest and provide your email address. Is Family Weekend accessible? To ensure all guests can fully enjoy Family Weekend, events are planned in locations that are fully accessible to wheelchairs. Closed captioning will be provided for most major events. To request additional accommodations or assistance, please contact the Office of University Event and Conference Services at universityevents@brown.edu. Will events still take place in the case of inclement weather? To support the University's health and safety efforts, many events will take place outside this year. All events will take place rain or shine. Please pack accordingly for fall weather in New England. In the case of dangerous weather conditions, outdoor events will be canceled. Please refer to the website and online schedule for information about cancellations. Is there an app for Family Weekend? We encourage you to download the BrownU mobile app (search “BrownU” in your app store) for on-hand information, including a schedule and campus map. To find Family Weekend info: Open the app. From the home screen, click the menu icon in the top right corner and then click “Family Weekend” under More Features. You can also bookmark events you want to attend and access them in the My Bookmarks section in the bottom menu. Please note that you do not need to create an account and should use the app as a guest. Is there a shuttle to Brown Stadium for the football game? The shuttle for the football game will take fans to and from Brown Stadium and Faunce Arch and is free for all fans. The buses will be available at Faunce Arch approximately every 10 minutes, beginning two hours before kickoff. Return trips will be available for one hour after the game. Drop-off and pickup at Brown Stadium will be located on Sessions Avenue. Are self-guided campus tours available? Families can take a self-guided tour by scanning the QR code available at the Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center at 75 Waterman St. Is the Medical School holding any events during Family Weekend? Yes, families of students in the Warren Alpert Medical School are invited to attend a variety of programs geared toward the medical student experience. Learn more on the Medical School website. Whom can I contact with questions? Questions about Family Weekend should be directed to familyweekend@brown.edu. If you have questions on site you can stop by one of the check-in tables from noon to 6 p.m. on Friday, October 15 and from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday, October 16. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home 2021 Schedule Friday, October 15 Saturday, October 16 Sunday, October 17 Plan Your Visit Future Dates FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page