Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Office of Information Technology oit.gatech.edu Main navigation Home Services Services Based on Role Students Faculty Research Computing Staff IT Endpoint Computing IT Business Management Printing and Copying Services About About From The Desk of The CIO The OIT Leadership Organization Chart Job Opportunities Project Management Office Strategy Strategy Overview Amplify Impact Champion Innovation Expand Access Lead by Example FY22 Strategy Timeline High-Level Timeline FY22 - Yearlong FY22 - First Half FY22 - Second Half Strategic Planning Process Policies OneIT IT Communications IT Communications News Accessibility Secondary Navigation Contact Us Open Search Search Search Contact Us Breadcrumb Home Contact Us Submit a ticket or call us to get support now. Learn how to get to our offices so that we can help you. How can we help you? Call Us Dial 404-385-5555 to speak with us now Call Us Now Submit a Ticket We’ll reach out over email after your submission **Requires GT login Submit a Ticket IT Support Chat Talk with an agent on our Technology page **Requires GT login Talk to an Agent Walk-up Support View available hours and locations **Requires GT login Get Walk-up Support HR Assistance Chat Dial 404-385-5555 to speak with us now Call Us Submit a Ticket We’ll reach out over email after your submission **Requires GT login Submit a Ticket Financial Assistance Chat Dial 404-385-5555 to speak with us now Call Us Submit a Ticket We’ll reach out over email after your submission **Requires GT login Submit a Ticket Addresses OIT is located in the Coda Building at Tech Square: 756 West Peachtree Street, Atlanta, Ga. 30332. How to Find Us Driving from I-75/85 Southbound Take exit 250 (10th/14th Streets). At the end of the exit merge to your left (2nd lane from the left) to make a left hand turn onto 14th Street. In 2 blocks turn right onto Spring Street, continue 0.7 miles and Coda will be on your left, just past the Barnes and Noble Bookstore in Tech Square. Parking is available in the Coda Building deck or the Georgia Tech Tech Square parking deck immediately across Spring Street. Driving from I-75/85 Northbound: take exit 250, exit onto 14th Street to the East (right). Take the 2nd right onto Spring Street, continuing .7 miles and Coda will be on your left, just past the Barnes and Noble Bookstore in Tech Square. Parking is available in the Coda Building deck or the Georgia Tech Tech Square parking deck immediately across Spring Street. Public Transit Use Marta exit at the North Avenue Station located at 713 West Peachtree Street. This station is just south of Coda. Georgia Tech Stinger / Trolley Take the Yellow Express or Trolley to Tech Square, access Coda from the Spring Street. (near GT Hotel or 760 Spring Street). Walking from Central Campus Parking is available for an hourly rate in the Coda garage and nearby Georgia Tech parking decks E81 (760 Spring Street) and E82 (Centergy, 5th and Williams Street). Visitor Parking Parking is available for an hourly rate in the Coda garage and nearby Georgia Tech parking decks E81 (760 Spring Street) and E82 (Centergy, 5th and Williams Street). Coda garage parking is $2/15 minutes, max $24/day. Access Coda parking via 4th Street. Georgia Tech parking (E81 and E82) is hourly at $2/hour, max $15/day. There is also nearby metered street parking along Spring Street and 5th Street. Visiting Georgia Tech Floors in Coda Coda is divided into East and South towers. Office and room numbers will usually start with an E (“East”) or S (“South”). Most suites require authorized access using a Georgia Tech issued BuzzCard ID. If you are visiting from off campus, you should know the name of your host and check in at the front desk in the main floor lobby. The Portman Building staff will contact the person you are visiting, who can escort you to their location. Accessibility Information Download Microsoft Products > Download Adobe Reader > Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN