Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Graduate Equity Initiative Announcement Dear Arts and Sciences Colleagues, A year ago, as part of Columbia’s effort to reckon with the impacts of systemic racism in the academy, GSAS and Arts & Sciences announced the Graduate Equity Initiative, a new, 5-year program of funding that seeks to create pathways of success to, through, and beyond graduate education for scholars from backgrounds underrepresented across the various fields in the Arts & Sciences. After a year of hard work by a devoted committee of faculty, graduate students, and DEI staff from GSAS and A&S, we are pleased to announce the eight programs that have been chosen for initial funding. They represent a broad vision of diversity across the disciplines and at multiple levels of education and research training, ranging from the undergraduate pipeline in Biology to Ph.D. access in Classical Studies, to the cultivation of diverse talent in History Summer Institutes. The full list of supported projects can be found here and here and is appended below. We want to acknowledge the extraordinary work of the faculty co-chairs of the Graduate Equity Initiative committee—Brent Hayes Edwards, Peng Family Professor of English and Comparative Literature, and Robert Y. Shapiro, Wallace S. Sayre Professor of Government. The committee of faculty, graduate students, and staff worked throughout the year to develop this new program under their leadership. The committee designed and implemented a thorough and welcoming process, assisted applicants in developing their proposals and set the principles and goals for the initiative’s first iteration. They navigated late-stage complexities and the challenge of choosing among multiple excellent proposals with grace and persistence. The membership of the committee is listed below; we are grateful to these colleagues for their time and leadership. All applicants to the program also deserve thanks: their more than 20 proposals embodied serious thinking about the obstacles to diversity in graduate education and evinced commitment to new practices of inclusion. While student support was a frequent focus, the proposals also committed faculty time, energy, and department resources to leverage the new funding and create a positive climate for all students. The thinking that went into these proposals will benefit programs even as we seek new sources of funding so that more of these ideas may be realized in the future. The work of inclusion is urgent, and constant; the progress that we make in the programs funded in this cycle will ultimately benefit all by testing and refining strategies for change and improvement. The awards for this year all represent multi-year commitments that allow programs to build cohorts and develop new inclusive practices over time. With the continuing leadership of Professors Edwards and Shapiro, the committee will take the coming year to fine-tune its processes and renew its membership in preparation for a second application cycle starting in the fall of 2022. We begin this program with optimism, hope, and gratitude to many colleagues across Arts and Sciences. We look forward to learning from the programs that will launch their new initiatives in the coming year. Sincerely, Carlos J. Alonso Dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities Vice President for Graduate Education, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Amy E. Hungerford Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences Dean of the Faculty Ruth Fulton Benedict Professor of English and Comparative Literature Graduate Equity Initiative Committee Brent Edwards, co-chair, Peng Family Professor of English and Comparative Literature Robert Y. Shapiro, co-chair, Wallace S. Sayre Professor of Government and International and Public Affairs, Department of Political Science Luis M. Campos, Associate Professor of Chemistry Denise Cruz, Professor of English and Comparative Literature Ellie M. Hisama, Professor Emerita of Music (now Dean of the Faculty of Music, University of Toronto) Kellie E. Jones, Hans Hofmann Professor of Modern Art, Art History and Archaeology; Professor of African American and African Diaspora Studies; Chair, Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies Rosalind C. Morris, Professor of Anthropology Joshua Whitford, Associate Professor of Sociology Tian Zheng, Professor of Statistics; Chair, Department of Statistics Fredrick Harris, Professor of Political Science; Dean of Social Sciences, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Sarah Cole, Parr Professor of English and Comparative Literature; Dean of Humanities, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Robert Mawhinney, Professor of Physics; Dean of Science, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Lisa de Sol, PhD candidate, English and Comparative Literature Francisco Lara Garcia, PhD candidate, Sociology Natalie Nevarez, Associate Director for Faculty Diversity and Development; Office of the Executive Vice President for the Arts and Sciences (now Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution) Celina Chatman Nelson, Associate Dean for Academic Diversity and Inclusion 1. Postbaccalaureate Classics and Classical Studies Department of Classics This program will create three fellowships each year for incoming postbac students, specifically in one of the departments that participate in Columbia’s interdepartmental Classical Studies Graduate Program, as well as in Medieval & Renaissance Studies, and the Institute for Comparative Literature and Society. 2. Black Undergraduate Mentoring Program Department of Biological Sciences The Black Undergraduate Mentoring Program will provide a cohort of undergraduates in the biological sciences with assistance in navigating careers in academic STEM research and medicine. Doctoral students participating will receive training and professional development in inclusive mentorship and cultural competency that will be of great value to them as they pursue their further careers. The proposal provides two new types of mentorship to selected undergraduates: through an existing partnership with the Black Alumni Council of Columbia University (BAC) and with Trainee Research Mentors who will be recruited from A&S doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers in coordination with the Department of Biological Sciences. 3. History Summer Institute Department of History A History Summer Institute focused on undergraduate juniors and seniors to increase the diversity of applicants to graduate study. This proposal includes a three-pronged effort that builds on concrete steps already taken by the department that introduces a new and critically important pipeline dimension. 4. Addressing the Inequities of Anthropology Department of Anthropology This proposal seeks to counter the perception that Anthropology dismisses studies of the US as less relevant to major debates in the field, by endowing students with the pedagogical and intellectual tools to redefine the discipline. It will support a number of incoming PhD students and creates a three-year Postdoctoral Fellowship for recent doctoral graduates. Mentorship will be provided through the departmental Boas Event Series, a Pedagogy Workshop, Professionalization Training, a Diversity Initiatives Fund to foster more student-led conversations and initiatives, and a discretionary fund to provide additional support for participants. 5. Columbia University MA Access Program in Modern Languages, Literatures, and Cultures Departments of English and Comparative Literature; French and Romance Philology; Germanic Languages; Latin American and Iberian Cultures; Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies; and Slavic Languages The proposal creates a distinct MA Access Program in Columbia’s departments of modern languages, literatures, and cultures. The program will combine four fully funded fellowships with distinct and reformed recruitment, admissions, and advising programs to create a sustainable pipeline of qualified MA students in the modern languages and literatures. Its aim is to foster an overarching culture of inclusion among the MA programs in those related fields. 6. Building Diversity Pipelines into Statistics and Data Science Department of Statistics The proposed program aims to increase diversity in the Statistics MA program and to establish a baseline for diversity pathways in statistics and data science. The envisioned effort is manifold: to provide significant tuition relief for a number of MA students; summer engagement opportunities prior to applying to the Statistics MA program; an active mentoring program that connects successful alumni with admitted students; deepening existing relationships and developing new relationships with partner institutions. 7. Graduate Seminar on Race, Climate Change, and Environmental Justice Departments of Earth & Environmental Sciences, Anthropology, African American and African Diaspora Studies, History, and the Center for Science and Society The goal of this proposal is to sustain and enhance a graduate seminar on “Race, Climate Change, and Environmental Justice” (EESC 9810) that was taught last year for the first time, and which addressed the disproportionate impact of climate change on marginalized communities. Funding will ensure a sustainable and successful future for this course by allowing the hiring of a full-time joint-appointment postdoctoral scholar between DEES, a social science department, and the Center for Science and Society to teach future iterations of this course, as well as part-time adjunct practitioners to guide the hands-on component of the course. Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.