Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Administrator Resources This section serves as a resource for administrators to locate information on appointment procedures, finance and budgeting matters, promotion and tenure, leave and sabbatical guidelines and global resources. Instructional Appointments Find information here about each rank, hiring authorizations, the search process and supporting forms. . Research Appointments Find information here about each rank, the search process and supporting forms. . Staff Appointments Find information for hiring officers of administration, administrative support staff, union and non-union employees. . Student Appointments Find information here about the various types of student appointments and hiring procedures. . . Finance and Budgeting For staff who work with financial processing at Columbia, this section provides an overview to the systems, information on gaining access, P-card details and links to various related forms. . Promotion and Tenure Information on the tenure review and promotion process. Leave and Top-up Policy Policies on various leaves and sabbatical guidelines.. Global Resources This section provides information, guidance and resources to help facilitate international activities, travel and program administration. Facilities Information about University space planning with respect to its development, use and management.. Work Life The Office of Work/Life provides resources, workshops and individual consultation on a variety of topics. Other Faculty Reviews Find review guidelines for lecturer, professor of professional practice, language lecturer, full professor and professors of practice. . A&S Department Course Listings The A&S department course listing provides information all courses taught by aculty in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. A&S Department Administrators Meetings Find A&S Department Administrators meeting dates and agendas, as well as meeting minutes and reports from past meetings. A&S IT Arts & Science IT provides select A&S faculty and staff with computing services and support. We deploy workstations, build websites, consult on research computing needs, assist with erooms, and handle all desktop support needs. A&S Policies This section describes some of the cost coverage that is provided by the Office of the Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.