Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes In assigning space to departments, A&S will follow these guidelines. Any assignment or re-assignment of space must take these guidelines into account. Departments in turn should follow these guidelines to the extent possible within the allocation of space made by A&S. 1. When possible, each full-time active officer of instruction should have exclusive use of a faculty office. 2. Emeritus faculty may be permitted to retain exclusive use of their offices for the academic year following retirement, but no longer. 3. Visiting faculty, full-time paid officers of research, and adjunct faculty should have the use of offices, but need not have exclusive use of offices. Emeritus faculty may have use of shared offices. 4. Full-time professorial rank faculty with externally-funded grants or contracts and full-time officers of research with externally-funded grants or contracts should be given research space for the conduct of that research. Research space should be reassigned within the department at the completion of funding. Faculty and officers of research may be permitted to retain their research space for up to one academic year following completion of funded research if the department has space available, but the use of such space will not be taken into consideration for assignment of space by A&S. 5. Departments should have adequate space for common areas that can be used for interaction, both structured and unstructured, and for use by staff and graduate students. 6. No department or officer of the Arts and Sciences may knowingly assign exclusive use of an office to an officer of instruction or to an officer of research who already has exclusive use of an office somewhere else on the Morningside campus or the Manhattanville campus. Directors of centers, institutes and other officers of the university will not have exclusive use of two offices. 7. Departments should periodically undertake comprehensive reassessments of the use of all space assigned to them. Refinements and adjustments should occur on an annual basis within the context of ongoing departmental discussions. Department chairs oversee both the allocation of space and the discussions about the allocation of space. 8. Departments may adopt non-traditional uses of space after discussion and voting. Assignment decisions by A&S will not be affected by such decisions. (For instance, A&S will try to assign enough space for the department to have individual offices for all full-time active officers of instruction even if such officers of instruction use space in some non-traditional fashion.) March 2017 Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.