Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Welcome to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences September 12, 2019 Dear New Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Columbia University, It is a privilege and pleasure to welcome you as new faculty to Columbia University. I hope that you will be able to attend the campus-wide New Faculty Orientation on Friday, 13 September from 8:30 am to 2:00 pm, with a breakout session at 1:00 pm for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. You are joining over 1,000 distinguished colleagues distributed across the five schools that comprise the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Columbia, which was established in 1991 as the organizational framework to unify faculty and allow for shared leadership and governance across schools. Two of these schools--Columbia College and the School of General Studies, are home to Columbia’s Arts and Sciences undergraduate student body. The School of the Arts offers Master’s programs; the School of Professional Studies offers post-baccalaureate and Master's programs; and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is home to many of our department-based Master's programs, as well as to all Arts and Sciences doctoral students. Below you can read more about the organization and governance of Arts and Sciences and the faculty committees critical to our shared governance structure. One committee I would like to highlight here is the Committee on Equity and Diversity (CED), which was established in 2018 in response to the 2017/18 Policy and Planning Committee Equity Reports and the 2018-2023 A&S Diversity Strategic Plan. As stated in the CED’s Mission Statement, a diverse scholarly community working in equitable conditions increases intellectual richness, vibrancy, and innovation and cultivates and models excellence and inclusion for our students and those outside the University. You will also find below some useful contacts and other information to assist you in settling into your new academic home and city. On behalf of our faculty, students, and staff, a warm welcome to Columbia University in the City of New York! Maya Tolstoy Interim Executive Vice President and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences About Columbia University and the Faculty of Arts & Sciences Arts & Sciences Stated Rules Arts & Sciences Executive Committee Columbia University Charters & Statutes Faculty Handbook Arts & Sciences Faculty Meetings Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Arts & Sciences Divisional Deans Arts & Sciences Administrators Arts & Sciences Committees Policy and Planning Committee (PPC) Academic Review Committee (ARC) Committee on Equity and Diversity (CED) Educational Policy and Planning Committee (EPPC) Junior Faculty Advisory Board (JFAB) Lecturer Advisory Committee (LAC) Promotion and Tenure Committee (PTC) Standing Committee on Language Lecturers (SCLL) Schools and Deans Columbia College, Dean James Valentini, Henry L. and Lucy G. Moses Professor; Vice President for Undergraduate Education School of General Studies, Dean Lisa Rosen-Metsch, Professor of Sociomedical Sciences Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, Dean Carlos Alonso, Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities; Vice President for Graduate Education, Faculty of Arts and Sciences School of the Arts, Dean Carol Becker, Professor of the Arts School of Professional Studies, Dean Jason Wingard, Dean of the School of Professional Studies, Professor of Professional Studies Key Columbia University Resources The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement supports diversity plans to assist in meeting placement goals established in University affirmative action programs by advancing recruitment of outstanding minority and female scholars. This office also manages faculty diversity data and administers Junior Faculty and Mid-Career Faculty Awards. The Office of University Life is the hub for University-wide student life information and initiatives.This office maintains the Columbia Faculty & Staff Resource Card, which is a one-stop source for University resources and policies on academic integrity, disability accommodations, discrimination and harassment, gender-based misconduct, student mental health, and more. You can find the card, along with a place to report incidents and concerns, in the top righthand corner to the left of the search box of University Life’s website. Columbia University Office of Work/Life is a resource for wellness, housing and relocation, child care and schooling, breastfeeding, and adult and elder care, among other resources to support work and life at Columbia. The Office of the Executive Vice President for Research has overall responsibility for the University's research enterprise at all locations, including the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses, Columbia University Medical Center, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Nevis Laboratories, and internationally. Columbia University Statistics and Facts Arts & Sciences Faculty Financial Resources Faculty Research Allocation Program (FRAP) The Faculty Research Allowance Program (FRAP) provides limited research funds for Arts and Sciences full-time faculty in professorial and lecturer ranks. Through the use of a special purchasing card (the FRAP Card) the program allows faculty members to charge directly for the following types of research-related expenses: Travel expenses, including meals associated with conference or research travel. Conference registration Manuscript preparation Equipment purchases PDA (mobile phones and tablets) purchases In addition, the FRAP Program will cover hotel room charges related to professional or research trips. These cannot be charged on the FRAP Card, but can be reimbursed to faculty with appropriate documentation. The amount of FRAP funding available to faculty is determined by rank: Professorial rank faculty on multi-year appointments: $2,550 Lecturers and faculty on single-year appointments: $1,133 ($567 for one semester appointments) Tenured faculty who take the TFRP cash option during the academic year are not eligible for FRAP during that year. The FRAP application form can be downloaded from this site. The complete FRAP guidelines, policies and procedures, including a list of eligible and ineligible purchase, are available at this link. If you have any questions or need more information regarding FRAP, please contact Kathy Maqsudi, Manager, at [email protected] or at (646) 745-8591. Tenured Faculty Research Program (TFRP) The Tenured Faculty Research Program (TFRP) offers tenured faculty annually the equivalent of one-ninth of their academic year salary. Alternatively, the TFRP allocation may be used either toward a paid leave with salary or for research assistance. Download the 2019-20 application form from this site. If you have any question or need more information regarding TFRP, please contact Joseph Werst, Director, Academic Appointments and Payroll, at [email protected] or at (212) 854-6110. Faculty/Student Interaction Dinners (FSID) The Faculty/Student Interaction Dinner program facilitates informal communication between full-time faculty members and undergraduate students in their classes. Arts and Sciences faculty members holding a full-time appointment at the rank of Lecturer in Language, Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, or Professor are eligible to host a lunch or dinner funded by the Office of the Executive Vice President. To help foster informal relationships between faculty and students, the maximum number of students that can attend any one meal is 15; the majority of the students attending must be undergraduates. If the class exceeds 15 students, the faculty member can host additional meals in order to accommodate all students in the class. The meals may take place at either the faculty member’s home or at an on-campus site (found by the faculty member). All meals must be scheduled and arranged through the Office of the Executive Vice President. A faculty member wishing to schedule a lunch or dinner should complete the FSID Order Form and provide the list of attendees. Forms are available on the A&S website here. These should be returned to Qamar Said, located on the third floor of the Interchurch Center, 475 Riverside Drive (enter on Claremont Avenue and 120th Street), or by email at [email protected], or [email protected] For more specific guidelines regarding the FSID programs, as well as the list and menus of participating restaurants, please visit the website as well, or contact Qamar Said (646) 745-8590, [email protected] A&S Information Technology Arts & Sciences IT (ASIT) currently provides on-site desktop and laptop support for all Arts and Sciences faculty and departments that are not covered by their own IT staff. Assistance is provided by appointment on a first come, first served basis. When requesting assistance, please indicate times you might be available at your computer for help. Upon receiving your request, ASIT will contact you as soon as possible, the same day in most cases, to set up an appointment. In addition to desktop support, ASIT will also provide guidance on hardware purchases and configurations, security protocols and data storage options. For a complete list of services provided by the ASIT team, please refer to the ASIT website. To set up an appointment for assistance, please contact ASIT at [email protected] (preferred) or at (212) 854-0702. For any additional information, please contact Michael Stanish, Director of IT for A&S, at [email protected] Computer Replacement Program The Computer Replacement Program was established to ensure that continuing faculty have a working computer for their instructional and administrative needs. While incoming, multi-year faculty receive an allocation for a new computer when they arrive at Columbia, the Computer Replacement Program is intended to refresh the hardware on a regular four-year cycle. Continuing faculty can apply for computer replacement funds of up to $1,300 if they can demonstrate that they have not purchased another computer with Arts & Sciences funds (e.g., FRAP, research funds, start- up funds) during the prior four academic years. For more information about the program and a Computer Replacement request form, please contact Kathy Maqsudi, Manager, at [email protected] or at (646) 745-8591. Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.