Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Housing and Relocation Information regarding relocation can be found in new faculty offer letters. Questions regarding relocation for can be directed to Audrey Rosenblatt at (646) 745-8578 or [email protected]. For housing information for senior faculty and post-docs, please contact Rose Razaghian at 212-854-0012 or [email protected]. For housing information for new junior faculty contact Besmira Ismailgeci at 212 853 1385 or [email protected]. Housing relocation Housing The following programs are available to assist Columbia faculty with housing. Faculty Housing provides rental or lease apartments for eligible Faculty. The Provost's Faculty Housing Assistance Program provides funds to help eligible faculty purchase or rent an apartment or home in the area. Effective July 2014, a new housing policy will be in effect and a link to the new site will appear here. Housing Assistance Program Fact Sheets > Income supplement At this time, A&S can only provide eligible faculty with access to the income supplement with a maximum of $40K per year for tenured faculty and $22K per year for non-tenured faculty. We expect the Provost to introduce a "Housing Mobility Program" later this year which will provide alternative options for faculty wishing to move out of Columbia housing. The Housing Information and Referral Service provides individual consultations on renting or purchasing apartments and homes within commuting distance of Columbia University campuses. The service is available to all faculty, including faculty being recruited to the University, and to all other Columbia University employees. The Affinity Lending Program may help the people of Columbia University finance the purchase of a home through arrangements with Bank of America and ICC. Visitor Housing may be available on campus for parents, alumni, and guest affiliates of Columbia. Relocation Relocation expenses can either be paid directly to a moving company (please contact Audrey Rosenblatt about how best to do this) or by reimbursement. All reimbursements must comply with the University’s Travel and Business Expense Policies, and the newly hired employee should be informed of this prior to incurring expenses. Relocation expense reimbursement may be processed on a Check Request form prior to the hire date. Any expense reimbursements requested after the hire date should be on a Travel and Business Expense form. Please be advised that the new federal tax law legislation states that, effective January 1, 2018, all relocation expenses paid by the University, whether directly to the mover or by reimbursement to you, are considered taxable to you. Documentation Required The original receipts/invoices must be provided and meet the requirements as documented in the Travel and Business Expense policies. In general, the receipts should demonstrate: the date the item or service purchased the total amount of the purchase proof of payment the recipient’s name, home address and Social Security number (if taxable) to be reported to Payroll for reporting on the employee’s annual Form W-2 Documentation of an agreement, signed by a Senior departmental officer, must be provided that authorizes the relocation allowance or moving expenses. The employee should be aware of any tax implications. Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.