Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Division of Humanities Humanities War and Peace Initiative The Humanities War and Peace Initiative (HWPI) fosters the study of war and peace from the perspective of scholars in the Humanities, in conversation with colleagues from around Columbia and the world. Generously supported by President Bollinger, this initiative aims to encourage creative thinking about the critical topic of war, with an ultimate goal of perpetuating a more peaceful world. Leadership Sarah Cole is the Parr Professor of English and Comparative Literature and the Dean of Humanities. MORE Climate Humanities at Columbia The Climate Humanities initiative was begun in fall 2020 with an initial goal to aid the development of the Columbia Climate School, developing a number of principles and rubrics to share with the CCS’s founding committees, participating in the CCS’s early discussions, and offering suggestions for hiring priorities. Discovering that Climate Humanities is an area of great vitality at Columbia and one in which there is tremendous faculty and student interest, the Division of Humanities has moved toward a more full-blown initiative. As an organizing concept, Climate Humanities is broad and encompassing: any work in which the climate crisis is addressed in and through the humanistic disciplines, or any partnership that brings together climate science with our areas of study, is warmly included under our rubric. Up to now, our meetings have included faculty from Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Arts, and Humanities in the A&S, and from a range of schools at Columbia beyond A&S. New Humanities Faculty Salons Hosted by the Division of Humanities in the Arts and Sciences and co-sponsored by The Society of Fellows and Heyman Center for the Humanities, the New Humanities Faculty Salons are an opportunity to meet the new faculty members joining Columbia each academic year. The event originally scheduled for Wednesday, November 3 will be RESCHEDULED. We will announce a new date as soon as possible. More information and the full year's schedule is here. Resources and Information for Humanities Faculty Humanities Faculty News The Humanities Newsletter, including recent awards and announcements, publications, interviews, and other media appearances Newsletter archives Subscribe to the Humanities Newsletter here. Faculty Resources Information on tenure and promotion, leaves, research, and teaching. Resources on junior faculty support, awards and fellowship submissions, work/life benefits, and more. Grants, CFPs, and Other Opportunities Columbia-Affiliated and External Awards and Fellowships Research Support and Funding New Humanities Opportunities Subscribe to the Humanities Opportunities Newsletter here. Department Mentoring Plans Department mentoring plans Art History and Archaeology Classics East Asian Languages and Cultures English and Comparative Literature French and Romance Philology Germanic Languages Italian Latin American and Iberian Cultures Middle Eastern, South Asian, and African Studies Music Philosophy Religion Slavic Languages Arts and sciences mentoring proposal Background: We propose that issues of mentoring and of feedback from the formal review process (1st, 3rd, and 5th year reviews) be kept separate. Although the mentoring program should help junior faculty navigate Columbia’s A&S review system, the mentoring process should not substitute for, nor be formally involved in, the established review system. Separate from the mentoring proposal laid out below, A&S should work to strengthen and regularize the feedback that junior faculty members receive after reviews, particularly but not only, the 3rd year review. To that end, we propose that information on both mentoring and providing feedback to junior faculty as part of the review system should be provided to department chairs, including at the orientation and information programs for new (and ongoing) chairs that A&S has recently established. Many departments currently have well-functioning mentoring programs in place, and departmental needs for the composition and structure of mentoring committees will differ. We therefore do not propose a one-size-fits all system, but rather provide elements that all mentoring programs should contain, and provide a sample program to serve as the “default” mentoring program.   Requirements for Departmental Mentoring Programs: Every department should have a mentoring program in place for junior faculty members who have not yet been promoted to tenure. Mentoring programs should be established (or revised) in consultation with junior faculty in the department. We encourage departments to allow anonymous feedback during this process. All programs should: • provide support and advice on how to succeed at Columbia and in academia • serve as a sounding board as an advocate (if necessary) • provide feedback on research • help orient the junior faculty member within Columbia (e.g., on finding available resources for research and teaching) Mentoring programs are NOT intended to provide a critical evaluation or an assessment of progress. The junior faculty member is not obligated to follow any advice, nor does the advice constitute a roadmap for or guarantee of promotion or success. Evaluation of mentoring programs: Departments should provide a copy of their mentoring program to their Divisional Deans by May 1, 2015. Divisional Deans should review mentoring programs and make suggestions for improvements, and/or share information about mentoring initiatives in other departments, as relevant. Review of mentoring should become an integral part of the ARC review process. All department mentoring programs will be posted on the Arts and Sciences website.   Sample/Default Mentoring Program Composition of the Mentoring Committee: Two tenured faculty, normally one from within the department and one from outside. Appointed by the Department Chair, in consultation with the junior faculty member during his/her first semester at Columbia. The committee can change year-to-year. Charge: • provide support and advice on how to succeed at Columbia and in academia • serve as a sounding board and advocate (if necessary) • provide feedback on research • help orient the junior faculty member within Columbia (e.g., on finding available resources for research and teaching) Topics mentors might discuss with mentees include: • General research agenda and how to prioritize among research projects • Obtaining funding and/or opportunities for research leaves • Suitability of publication outlets and formats • Gaining visibility in the field • Balance of research, teaching, and service, strategies for teaching, and for advising graduate students • Work/life balance issues (including “infrastructure” issues such as dealing with the Columbia housing office, schools, etc.). Departments are encouraged to develop more specific lists of “sample questions” tailored to their own discipline. (One such list is provided as an example in the appendix). Such a list should not be seen as a mere check-list, nor as a constraint on discussions, but rather as a way to foster a broad-ranging conversation. Meetings: Mentors meet at least once annually with the junior faculty member (all together, or individually, as the junior faculty member prefers). Mentors should meet with an incoming faculty member during her or his first semester. Mentors should inform the department chair that this meeting has taken place, but should not report on the substance of the meeting, nor provide an evaluation of the junior faculty member. The junior faculty member should feel free to ask mentors for feedback and advice at other times when needed. Mentoring meetings should be informal and collegial conversations; junior faculty should feel free to request that conversations, or sensitive aspects thereof be kept confidential. Appendix: Sample list of questions to guide meetings between mentors and junior faculty members (from the Political Science Department). Departments should adapt this to fit their own needs. Research: • What books/papers are under review? Where? • What specific plans do you have to submit work for review in the future? Where? • Are there co-authors on your work? Who, for what papers/books? Are your co-authors senior to you, junior to you, or peers? • What do you see as the overarching theme or contribution of your research? • Are there infrastructural problems (e.g., IRB approvals, need for RAs or travel money, need to identify research assistants) that are making progress on research difficult? • If you are writing a book, what are your plans to organize a mini-conference around the book? Note the department has funds to support this. • Do you have questions about whether it’s better to write a book or a series of articles? • What efforts have you made (and do you plan to make) to seek outside support for your research? Do you have questions about the process of seeking outside support or have you faced issues in doing so? • What opportunities have you had or will you have to present your work outside Columbia (in department seminars, major conferences, small-scale conferences, etc.) • Who do you think is the main audience for your work, and based on this who do you think are likely external evaluators should you come up for tenure at Columbia? • What do you hope to have achieved vis-à-vis concrete research outputs by the time (a) of your next A&S review, and (b) you are scheduled to come up for tenure • Are there particular parts of your work that you would like more substantive feedback on from your mentor and/or from other faculty? Teaching: • What courses have you taught? • What has been the feedback from the students? (Consult course evaluations where available)? • How many grad students are you advising formally? How many informally? • How much time do you spend talking to students (graduate or undergraduate) about issues other than their research (eg personal problems)? • During the past semester, what proportion of your work time do you estimate was devoted to any aspect of teaching? • Are there aspects of your teaching assignments that you feel are unduly burdensome? If so, why? • Have you had an issues or problems in working with TAs (or know how to utilize them)? • Have you had any issues or problems in assigning grades to students? Service: • What service have you provided in the department? • What service have you provided at Columbia but outside the department? • What service have provided outside the University? • Are there any specific requests for service that you would like to say no to or that you worry are putting undue burden on your time? • More generally, do you feel you can say no to service requests when you need to? • Approximately how many articles do you review for journals a year? Do you feel like you know when to say yes and when to say no to such requests? Other: • What are your leave plans in the coming year? • Are there issues not covered above that affect your ability to achieve your goals? • Are you facing any work-life issues (housing, schooling, day care, etc.) that make it difficult for you to do your job well? departments centers institutes Departments ART HISTORY AND ARCHAEOLOGY CLASSICS EAST ASIAN LANGUAGES AND CULTURES ENGLISH AND COMPARATIVE LITERATURE FRENCH AND ROMANCE PHILOLOGY GERMANIC LANGUAGES ITALIAN LATIN AMERICAN AND IBERIAN CULTURES MIDDLE EASTERN, SOUTH ASIAN, AND AFRICAN STUDIES MUSIC PHILOSOPHY RELIGION SLAVIC LANGUAGES Centers CENTER FOR AMERICAN STUDIES CENTER FOR THE ANCIENT MEDITERRANEAN MEDIA CENTER FOR ART HISTORY CENTER FOR BRAZILIAN STUDIES CENTER FOR BUDDHISM AND EAST ASIAN RELIGIONS TANG CENTER FOR EARLY CHINA COMPUTER MUSIC CENTER CENTER FOR ETHNOMUSICOLOGY COUNCIL FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES CENTER FOR FRENCH AND FRANCOPHONE STUDIES DONALD KEENE CENTER OF JAPANESE CULTURE HEYMAN CENTER FOR THE HUMANITIES CENTER FOR KOREAN RESEARCH LANGUAGE RESOURCE CENTER CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF RELIGION AND SEXUALITY CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF SOCIAL DIFFERENCE CENTER FOR MEDIA STUDIES Institutes INSTITUTE FOR COMPARATIVE LITERATURE AND SOCIETY WEATHERHEAD EAST ASIAN INSTITUTE INSTITUTE FOR ISRAEL AND JEWISH STUDIES SOUTH ASIA INSTITUTE INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH ON WOMEN, GENDER AND SEXUALITY Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.