Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Awards and Fellowships There are various outlets for faculty recognition whether through an award, a prize, a fellowship, or an academic opportunity. Please find information for how to submit to these various opportunities below, categorized by type and Columbia affiliation. Many awards and fellowships that are bestowed upon faculty are now eligible to be supplemented by our new Top-Up Policy, that can be reviewed here. Columbia Affiliated | External Awards & Fellowships awards fellowships humanities natural sciences social sciences Awards PRESIDENTIAL TEACHING AWARD Established in 1996, the presidential awards honor the best of Columbia's teachers for the influence they have on the development of their students and their part in maintaining the University's longstanding reputation for educational excellence. They are conferred according to the criteria and procedures developed by separate faculty committees for the awards for faculty and graduate students. The awards are designed to recognize the diverse forms that teaching may take in the different parts of the University. Therefore, anyone who holds a full- or part-time faculty appointment in one of the departments within the Columbia Corporation, other than student officers of instruction, is eligible for the faculty teaching award. Candidates for the graduate student awards must be enrolled in a degree program offered by one of the schools within the Columbia Corporation but do not need to be teaching in the year in which they are nominated. Each year, the President of the University writes to faculty, students and alumni asking for nominations for the two awards. Individuals may, however, submit nominations for faculty or graduate students any time by clicking on the nomination buttons here: Faculty Nomination Form and Student Nomination Form. LIONEL TRILLING BOOK AWARD The Lionel Trilling Book Award is given to a member of Columbia’s faculty whose book was published in the previous year and upholds a level of excellence commensurate with the work of Lionel Trilling CC ‘25, GSAS ‘26, GSAS ‘38. The award was established in 1976 in honor of Professor Trilling, a gifted and dedicated teacher who was deeply committed to undergraduate education, as well as a public intellectual known nationally for his scholarship and literary criticism, which appealed to a wide-audience. The Academic Awards Committee of the Columbia College Student Council is responsible for selecting the winners of this award. MARK VAN DOREN AWARD FOR TEACHING The Mark Van Doren Award for Teaching has been awarded each year since 1962 in recognition of a faculty member’s humanity, devotion to truth and inspiring leadership. The award was established in honor of Mark Van Doren GSAS ‘21, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet, novelist, playwright, critic, editor and biographer, as well as a renowned scholar and legendary teacher who inspired generations of Columbia students. The Academic Awards Committee of the Columbia College Student Council is responsible for selecting the winners of this award. junior faculty development award The Provost’s Grant Program for Junior Faculty Who Contribute to the Diversity Goals of the University provides awards, of up to $25,000 each, to support new or ongoing research and scholarship, seed funding for innovative research for which external funding would be difficult to obtain, and curricular development projects. Requests for proposals will occur twice a year. Fellowships SHORT TERM PROFESSORSHIP IN PARIS Each year, Alliance selects six faculty members to participate in transatlantic faculty exchanges: École Polytechnique, Sciences Po, and Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne University each receive one member of the Columbia University faculty, and one faculty member from each of the French institutions is selected to go to Columbia University. These faculty members spend one semester or a few weeks as a Visiting Professor at the partner institution, teaching a course and giving public lectures. This gives them the opportunity to strengthen the link between the schools and to establish long-term contacts for collaboration on future projects. Visiting positions are open to Columbia full-time officers of instruction of professorial rank, who work in fields relevant to Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne University. The visiting professor will instruct a course of 2.5 hours/week and deliver one public lecture. The course and lecture can be given in English or French and the visit shall be between October and April. Paris 1 will cover flight expenses and a daily stipend for additional living expenses incurred in Paris. These and other logistics details can be read in English or French. Full details on how to apply, as well as relevant deadlines and the application form, are available here. SOCIeTY OF FELLOWS IN THE HUMANITIES Fellows are appointed as Postdoctoral Research Scholars (Mellon Fellows) in the Society of Fellows in the Humanities and as Lecturers in appropriate departments at Columbia University (departments are listed in the "Application Materials (PDF)"). The one-year Fellowship renews automatically for a second and a third year. In the first year, Fellows teach one course per semester. At least one of these courses must be in the undergraduate ("Core") education program: Contemporary Civilization, Literature Humanities, Music Humanities, Art Humanities, Asian Civilizations, Asian Humanities, or Global Cultures. The second course may be a departmental course, the design of which will be determined jointly by the Fellow and the Fellow’s academic department. In the second year, Fellows teach one course: either a Core course (if only one of the two first-year courses was in the Core) or a departmental course. This will leave one semester in the second year free of teaching responsibilities. In the third year, Fellows again teach one course, either a Core course or a departmental course (to be decided jointly by the Fellow and the Fellow’s department), leaving one semester again free of teaching responsibilities. Please note that all teaching--whether a Core class or a department one--is to be arranged by the Fellow through the Fellow’s home academic department. At least two of the three courses taught in the first two Fellowship years must be in the Core. In addition to teaching and research, the duties of Fellows include planning a weekly Thursday Lecture Series, which is open for attendance to members of the University community, and participation in the intellectual life of the Society and of the department with which the Fellow is affiliated. The Society also cosponsors conferences and special events planned by Fellows around their special interests. To aid in the research process, each Fellow is assigned to a private office with a phone, and access to campus Wi-Fi. The research allowance may be used to pay for research-related expenses such as conferences, professional memberships, and research materials. Full details on how to apply, as well as relevant deadlines and the application form, are available here. Humanities Awards & Fellowships Program Deadline Program Synopsis American Antiquarian Society, Fellowships varies Offers short-term fellowships (one to three months) and long-term fellowships (four to twelve months) to support residential research on the life of America's people from the colonial era through the Civil War and Reconstruction. American Association of University Women, Fellowships and Grants varies AAUW is one of the world’s largest sources of funding for graduate women. Fellowship and grant recipients perform research in a wide range of disciplines and work to improve their schools and communities. American Council of Learned Societies, Fellowships and Grants varies ACLS offers fellowships and grants in more than a dozen programs for research in the humanities and related social sciences at the doctoral and postdoctoral levels. American Councils for International Education, Research Fellowships varies American Councils administers several major grants for independent, overseas research in the humanities and social sciences as well as language training. In recent years, American Councils scholars have conducted independent research in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. American Historical Association, J. Franklin Jameson Fellowship in American History varies Jameson Fellows spend 2-3 months at the Library of Congress for American history research. Applicants must be no more than 7 years beyond receipt of the Ph.D. American Research Center in Egypt, Fellowships January Several fellowships available for postdoctoral travel and study in Cairo and Egypt. Cambridge University, Junior Research Fellowships November Churchill College, Fitzwilliam College, Murray Edwards College, Selwyn College and Trinity Hall invite applications for Fellowships normally tenable for three years. The Fellowships are open to graduates of any University who have recently completed their doctorate or are close to completion. Cambridge University Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities varies The Centre offers a number of programs to bring scholars from all over the world to CRASSH - from postdoctoral and early career researchers to more established visiting fellows. Center for Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century Studies, UCLA, Fellowships February 1 The Center administers a number of fellowship programs for senior and postdoctoral scholars. Chemical Heritage Foundation, Fellowships February Offers fellowships and travel grants for in-residence research in the history and sociology of chemistry and related sciences. Council of American Overseas Research Centers, Multi-Country Research Fellowship January The program supports advanced regional or trans-regional research in the humanities, social sciences, or allied natural sciences. Preference will be given to candidates examining comparative and/or cross-regional research. Applicants are eligible to apply as individuals or in teams. Scholars must carry out research in two or more countries outside the United States, at least one of which hosts a participating American overseas research center. Open to U.S. citizens. Dartmouth College, Leslie Center for the Humanities, Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowships October With the support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Dartmouth offers an in-residence postdoctoral fellowship in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. Folger Shakespeare Library, Research Fellowships March 1, November 1 Research fellowships provide access to the Library's collections. Short-term (1-3 months) and long-term (6-9 months) fellowships are available. Getty Research Institute, Residential Grants and Fellowships varies Offers several postdoctoral fellowships for scholars in residence at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles. Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History, Fellowships May 1 Offers short-term research fellowships to doctoral candidates, postdoctoral scholars, college and university faculty at every rank, and independent scholars working in American history, to conduct research within the archival holdings of any institution in the five boroughs of New York City. George A. and Eliza Howard Foundation Fellowships November Supports independent projects in selected fields in the arts and social sciences (fields vary by year). The Foundation targets its support to early mid-career individuals who have achieved recognition for at least one major project. Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Sponsorship Programmes for Postdoctoral Scientists and Scholars varies Various fellowships fund research stays in Germany. Huntington Library, Fellowships November Offers Short-term and long-term in-residence fellowships. The Huntington is an independent research center with holdings in British and American history, literature, art history, and the history of science and medicine. John B. Hurford '60 Center for the Arts and Humanities, Haverford College, Mellon Postdoctoral Program January Haverford College, with support from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, offers an endowed fellowship program designed to nurture the professional potential of an emerging generation of young humanists. The fellowships is for two years. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers History Center, Fellowship in Electrical History February 1 The IEEE Life Members’ Fellowship in Electrical History upports either one year of full-time graduate work in the history of electrical science and technology at a college or university of recognized standing, or up to one year of postdoctoral research for a scholar in this field who has received their Ph.D. within the past three years. John W. Kluge Center at the Library of Congress, Fellowships, Distinguished Chairs & Endowments varies The Kluge Center welcomes scholars worldwide to research in the Library’s collections and engage in dialogue with leaders in Washington, and the public. The Center accommodates postdoctoral Fellows pursuing resident research, usually for periods from six to twelve months.. National Academies, Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowships for Achieving Excellence in College and University Teaching November Awards will be made to individuals who have demonstrated superior academic achievement, are committed to a career in teaching and research at the college or university level, show promise of future achievement as scholars and teachers, and are well prepared to use diversity as a resource for enriching the education of all students. Only U.S. citizens or nationals are eligible to apply. National Science Foundation, Science, Technology, and Society (STS) February 1, August 1 STS considers proposals for scientific research into the interface between science (including engineering) or technology, and society. STS researchers use diverse methods including social science, historical, and philosophical methods. Newberry Library, Fellowships December 1 for long-term, January 15 for short-term Fellowships provide assistance to researchers to use the collections in Chicago. Short-term fellowships for one to two months and long-term fellowships for four to twelve months are available. Princeton University Society of Fellows in the Liberal Arts, Fellowships October 1 The Princeton Society of Fellows, an interdisciplinary group of scholars in the humanities, social sciences, and selected natural sciences, invites applications for in-residence postdoctoral fellowships. Royal Museums Greenwich, Fellowships and Internships October The Museum encourages proposals from both maritime historians and scholars from other disciplines who are interested in exploring the cultural, social and political aspects of maritime history. Fred W. Smith National Library for the Study of George Washington, Fellowships November 15 Short-term and long-term funded residential research fellowships will be awarded to applicants whose research focuses on the life, leadership, and legacy of George Washington and early American history. The Library is located at Mount Vernon, 16 miles south of Washington, D.C. Smithsonian Institution, Office of Fellowships and Internships varies The Institution offers in-residence appointments for research and study. These appointments enable qualified persons to make use of Smithsonian resources in pursuing studies related to the programs and collections of the Institution and its staff. Appointments vary in duration, and many carry financial support. Stanford University Center for East Asian Studies, Postdoctoral Fellowships in Chinese Studies January Offers up to two postdoctoral fellowships in Chinese Studies each year. These awards are open to scholars in the humanities and social sciences studying any historical period. UC Humanities Research Institute, Residential Research Group Fellowships December The program allows scholars to participate in Residential Research Groups at UCHRI. UC MEXUS, Funding Opportunities varies UC MEXUS - CONACYT Postdoctoral Research Fellowships support postdoctoral researchers at the University of California or at Mexican institutions of higher education or research. UC MEXUS Small Grants for UC Postdocs support UC graduate student and postdoctoral researcher activities in all disciplines as related to academic exchange, research training, and scholarly development in areas of interest to UC MEXUS. UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program November Encourages outstanding women and minority Ph.D. recipients to pursue academic careers at the University of California. The current program offers postdoctoral research fellowships, faculty mentoring, and eligibility for a hiring incentive to scholars in all fields whose research, teaching, and service will contribute to diversity and equal opportunity at the University of California. University of Pennsylvania Penn Humanities Forum, Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Humanities October 15 The Penn Humanities Forum awards five one-year in-residence Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowships each academic year to junior scholars in the humanities who are not yet tenured. Wesleyan University Center for the Humanities, Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship Program January Scholars in any field of inquiry in the humanities or humanistic social sciences - broadly conceived - are invited to apply for a postdoctoral fellowship, made possible through a grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to Wesleyan University. Natural Sciences Awards & Fellowships Program Deadline Program Synopsis American Association of University Women, Fellowships and Grants varies AAUW offers five grant programs for women, including American and International Fellowships. American Brain Tumor Association, Basic Research Fellowship January Two-year $100,000 grants support new and early career scientists entering the field of brain tumor research. American Diabetes Association, Current Grant Opportunities January 15 for most postdoctoral programs Multiple award mechanisms available for postdoctoral research. Applicant generally must be U.S. citizen or have (or have applied for) permanent resident status. American Federation for Aging Research, Grant Programs varies AFAR offers several grant programs that support postdoctoral research in aging. American Heart Association, Postdoctoral Fellowship (Western States Affiliate) January Supports research related to cardiovascular function and disease and stroke, or to related clinical, basic science, bioengineering or biotechnology, and public health problems, including multidisciplinary efforts. Applicant must have less than five years postdoctoral research training or experience and be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident or have a specified visa type. American Lung Association, Grants November Senior Research Training Fellowships offer postdoctoral support for M.D.s and/or Ph.D.s. Research areas of particular interest are: adult pulmonary medicine, pediatric pulmonary medicine and lung biology. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or foreign nationals holding a specified visa type. American Society for Microbiology, Postdoctoral Fellowships, ASM/CDC Program in Infectious Disease and Public Health Microbiology January The ASM/CDC Fellowship supports postdocs for up to two years to perform research in residence headquartered at a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention location. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association, Call for Abstracts January The investigator-initiated grant program offers an annual postdoctoral fellowship award. Eligibility is limited to those who have been a fellow for one year or less. The maximum amount awarded is $50,000 per year for two years. Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Grant Programs UC Berkeley Limited Submission varies The BWF grantmaking strategies are to support biomedical scientists at the beginning of their careers and to make grants in areas of science that are poised for significant advancement but currently undervalued and underfunded. Awards for Postdoctoral Fellows include Career Awards for Medical Scientists and Career Awards at the Scientific Interface. Cancer Research Institute, Cancer Research Institute-Irvington Institute Fellowship Program April 1, October 1 Supports qualified young scientists at leading universities and research centers around the world who wish to receive training in cancer immunology or general immunology. Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund for Medical Research, Postdoctoral Fellowship February 1 Supports full time postdoctoral research into the causes, origin, and treatment of cancer. Applicants in general should not have more than one year of postdoctoral experience. Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Postdoctoral Research Fellowships second Wednesday in September Awards are offered to M.D.s, Ph.D.s, and M.D./Ph.D.s interested in conducting basic or clinical research related to cystic fibrosis. U.S. citizenship or permanent resident status is required. Damon Runyon Cancer Research Foundation, Fellowship Award March 15, August 15 The Foundation encourages all theoretical and experimental research relevant to the study of cancer and the search for cancer causes, mechanisms, therapies and prevention. Candidates who have already accepted a postdoctoral research fellowship award are not eligible. Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Postdoctoral Program in Environmental Chemistry August Provides an award to a principal investigator of $120,000 over two years to appoint a Postdoctoral Fellow in environmental chemistry. Fondation Fyssen, Postdoctoral Study Grants March Supports postdoctoral researchers under 35 years of age working in ethology, paleontology, archaeology, anthropology, psychology, epistemology, logic and the neurosciences, and other disciplines relevant to the foundation. The award funds work at a French laboratory. FRAXA Research Foundation, Grants and Postdoctoral Fellowships February 1 Grants and fellowships aims to encourage research aimed at finding a specific treatment for fragile X syndrome. FRAXA will offer a limited number of postdoctoral fellowships this year at a fixed rate of $45,000 per year. Grass Foundation, Grass Fellowships December Fellowships at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, support investigator-designed, independent research projects by scientists early in their career. Supported approaches include neurophysiology, biophysics, integrative neurobiology, neuroethology, neuroanatomy, neuropharmacology, systems neuroscience, cellular and developmental neurobiology,computational approaches to neural systems, and epilepsy-related research. Open to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and J-1 or H-1B visa holders. Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Information for Applicants July JDRF supports researchers interested in solving the clinical and scientific problems associated with type 1 diabetes. Funding opportunities include postdoctoral and advanced postdoctoral fellowships. Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, Career Development Program September 15 for letter of intent Funding supports research on leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma. Program categories include Fellows (less than two years postdoctoral experience) and Special Fellows (two or more years postdoctoral experience). National Hemophilia Foundation, Research Grants Program December for letter of intent The Judith Graham Pool Postdoctoral Research Fellowship supports basic science and pre-clinical research in bleeding disorders. Paralyzed Veterans of America Research Foundation September 1 Grants offered include fellowships for postdoctoral scientists, clinicians and engineers to encourage training and specialization in the field of spinal cord research. Postdoctoral individuals are eligible to apply within four years of receiving a Ph.D. or completing M.D. residency. Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Foundation varies PhRMA Foundation grants support research and education related to drug discovery. Offers Postdoctoral Fellowships in several areas: Center for Adherence Improvement Young Investigator Grant Program, Pharmacology/Toxicology, Informatics, Pharmaceutics, and Health Outcomes. RAND Corporation, Postdoctoral Training Program in the Study of Aging February Supports junior scholars in demographic and aging research. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Tourette Syndrome Association, Research and Training Grants September for preproposal The TSA is requesting research grant proposals from Ph.D. and M.D. researchers in basic and clinical studies on all aspects of Tourette syndrome. Postdoctoral fellowships provide up to $40,000 for one year. UNCF/Merck Science Initiative, UNCF/Merck Postdoctoral Science Research Fellowships December Fellowships are intended to provide support to African American post-graduates to obtain postdoctoral training or continue to conduct postdoctoral, pre-professional research projects. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Helen Hay Whitney Foundation, Research Fellowships July Supports early postdoctoral research training in all basic biomedical sciences. Fellowships may be awarded to U.S. citizens planning to work in laboratories either in the U.S., Canada, or abroad and also to foreign citizens for research in laboratories in the U.S. only. Social Sciences Awards & Fellowships American Antiquarian Society, Fellowships varies Offers short-term fellowships (one to three months) and long-term fellowships (four to twelve months) to support residential research on the life of America's people from the colonial era through the Civil War and Reconstruction. American Association of University Women, Fellowships and Grants varies AAUW is one of the world’s largest sources of funding for graduate women. Fellowship and grant recipients perform research in a wide range of disciplines and work to improve their schools and communities. American Council of Learned Societies, Fellowships and Grants varies ACLS offers fellowships and grants in more than a dozen programs for research in the humanities and related social sciences at the doctoral and postdoctoral levels. American Councils for International Education, Research Fellowships varies American Councils administers several major grants for independent, overseas research in the humanities and social sciences as well as language training. In recent years, American Councils scholars have conducted independent research in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. American Educational Research Association, Funding Opportunities varies AERA is a national research society that strives to advance knowledge about education, to encourage scholarly inquiry related to education, and to promote the use of research to improve education and serve the public good. American Historical Association, J. Franklin Jameson Fellowship in American History varies Jameson Fellows spend 2-3 months at the Library of Congress for American history research. Applicants must be no more than 7 years beyond receipt of the Ph.D. American Psychological Association, APA Policy Fellowships January The APA Congressional Fellowship Program offers members the opportunity to spend one year as a special assistant with a member of Congress or congressional committee on Capitol Hill. Open to U.S. citizens. American Psychological Foundation, Wayne F. Placek Grants March Grants support empirical research from all fields of the behavioral and social sciences on any topic related to lesbian, gay, or bisexual issues. Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University, Fellowships January The Belfer Center seeks applications from political scientists, lawyers, economists, those in the natural sciences, and others of diverse disciplinary backgrounds. Fellows are expected to devote some portion of their time to collaborative endeavors. Fellows are also expected to complete a significant publication during residence. Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Fellowships February CISAC is an interdisciplinary community dedicated to producing policy-relevant, scholarly research on international security problems. CISAC residential fellows are expected to produce a finished piece of writing. Center for Seventeenth- and Eighteenth-Century Studies, UCLA, Fellowships February 1 The Center administers a number of fellowship programs for senior and postdoctoral scholars. Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Research Goals, Junior Scholar Grants October 15 Awards up to $30,000 to postdoctoral scholars for research and writing. Applicants must have taught no more than six years since receiving the Ph.D. Council of American Overseas Research Centers, Multi-Country Research Fellowship January The program supports advanced regional or trans-regional research in the humanities, social sciences, or allied natural sciences. Preference will be given to candidates examining comparative and/or cross-regional research. Applicants are eligible to apply as individuals or in teams. Scholars must carry out research in two or more countries outside the United States, at least one of which hosts a participating American overseas research center. Open to U.S. citizens. Dartmouth College, Leslie Center for the Humanities, Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowships October With the support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Dartmouth offers an in-residence postdoctoral fellowship in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. Folger Shakespeare Library, Research Fellowships March 1, November 1 Research fellowships provide access to the Library's collections. Short-term (1-3 months) and long-term (6-9 months) fellowships are available. Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History, Fellowships May 1 Offers short-term research fellowships to doctoral candidates, postdoctoral scholars, college and university faculty at every rank, and independent scholars working in American history, to conduct research within the archival holdings of any institution in the five boroughs of New York City. George A. and Eliza Howard Foundation Fellowships November Supports independent projects in selected fields in the arts and social sciences (fields vary by year). The Foundation targets its support to early mid-career individuals who have achieved recognition for at least one major project. Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Sponsorship Programmes for Postdoctoral Scientists and Scholars varies Various fellowships fund research stays in Germany. John B. Hurford '60 Center for the Arts and Humanities, Haverford College, Mellon Postdoctoral Program January Haverford College, with support from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, offers an endowed fellowship program designed to nurture the professional potential of an emerging generation of young humanists. The fellowships is for two years. Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation, UCSD, Support varies Includes funding for graduate students, postdocs, and faculty, for example, NSSC Nuclear Campus Programming and Educational Project Faculty Grants in 2013. International Resources and Exchange Board, Grant Opportunities varies IREX enables local individuals and institutions to build key elements of a vibrant society: quality education, independent media, and strong communities. Program activities also include conflict resolution, technology for development, gender, and youth. Leakey Foundation, Grants varies Specific priorities include: Paleoanthropology of the Miocene, Pliocene and Pleistocene; and Primates (Old and New World): Evolution, behavior, morphology, ecology,endocrinology, genetics and isotope studies; and Modern hunter-gatherer groups. John W. Kluge Center at the Library of Congress, Fellowships, Distinguished Chairs & Endowments varies The Kluge Center welcomes scholars worldwide to research in the Library’s collections and engage in dialogue with leaders in Washington, and the public. The Center accommodates postdoctoral Fellows pursuing resident research, usually for periods from six to twelve months.. National Academies, Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowships for Achieving Excellence in College and University Teaching November Awards will be made to individuals who have demonstrated superior academic achievement, are committed to a career in teaching and research at the college or university level, show promise of future achievement as scholars and teachers, and are well prepared to use diversity as a resource for enriching the education of all students. Only U.S. citizens or nationals are eligible to apply. National Science Foundation, Science, Technology, and Society (STS) February 1, August 1 STS considers proposals for scientific research into the interface between science (including engineering) or technology, and society. STS researchers use diverse methods including social science, historical, and philosophical methods. Newberry Library, Fellowships December 1 for long-term, January 15 for short-term Fellowships provide assistance to researchers to use the collections in Chicago. Short-term fellowships for one to two months and long-term fellowships for four to twelve months are available. Paralyzed Veterans of America Research Foundation, PVA Research Foundation Grants September 1 Funding includes fellowships for postdoctoral scientists, clinicians and engineers to encourage training and specialization in the field of spinal cord research. Smithsonian Institution, Office of Fellowships and Internships varies The Institution offers in-residence appointments for research and study. These appointments enable qualified persons to make use of Smithsonian resources in pursuing studies related to the programs and collections of the Institution and its staff. Appointments vary in duration, and many carry financial support. Social Science Research Council, Fellowships & Grants varies The SSRC offers many postdoctoral programs in the social sciences. UC MEXUS, Funding Opportunities varies UC MEXUS - CONACYT Postdoctoral Research Fellowships support postdoctoral researchers at the University of California or at Mexican institutions of higher education or research. UC MEXUS Small Grants for UC Postdocs support UC graduate student and postdoctoral researcher activities in all disciplines as related to academic exchange, research training, and scholarly development in areas of interest to UC MEXUS. UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program November Encourages outstanding women and minority Ph.D. recipients to pursue academic careers at the University of California. The current program offers postdoctoral research fellowships, faculty mentoring, and eligibility for a hiring incentive to scholars in all fields whose research, teaching, and service will contribute to diversity and equal opportunity at the University of California. Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Grants for Post-Ph.D. Scholars varies The Foundation has a variety of grant programs for anthropological research and scholarship that are open to applicants irrespective of nationality or country of residence. Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.