Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards A&S Faculty Distinction Website Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Recognition and Awards Faculty Recognition University Professors Mark Van Doren Award for Teaching Lionel Trilling Book Award Distinguished Columbia Faculty Award Nobel Prize National Academy of Sciences American Academy of Arts and Sciences University Professors - Active The rank of University Professor is the highest academic honor within Columbia University. Distinguished senior faculty are appointed as a University Professor in recognition of their exceptional scholarly merit and extraordinary service to the University. University Professors Arts and Sciences Department(s) Jagdish N. Bhagwati Economics Martin Chalfie Biological Sciences Ruth DeFries Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Rosalind E. Krauss Art History and Archaeology Robert A. Mundell (Emeritus) Economics Jeffrey Sachs Economics, International and Public Affairs, Healthy Policy and Management Simon M. Schama History; Art History and Archaeology Gayatri C. Spivak English and Comparative Literature Joseph E. Stiglitz Business, International and Public Affairs, Economics The Mark Van Doren Award for Teaching Mark Van Doren (Ph.D. 1920, Faculty 1920–59, Emeritus 1959–72) was a legendary classroom presence who inspired generations of Columbia students. He was a Pulitzer Prize–winning poet, novelist, playwright, critic, editor, and biographer, as well as a scholar and teacher. The Mark Van Doren Award for Teaching is awarded annually to a faculty member for his or her humanity, devotion to truth and inspiring leadership. Year Honorees Arts and Sciences Department(s) 2021 Denise Cruz English and Comparative Literature 2019 Frank Guridy History and African American & African Diaspora Studies 2018 Gauri Viswanathan English and Comparative Literature 2017 Caterina Luigia Pizzigoni History 2016 Liza Knapp Slavic Languages 2015 Austin E. Quigley English and Comparative Literature 2014 Robert Friedman Mathematics 2013 Nicholas Dames English and Comparative Literature 2012 Christia Mercer Philosophy 2011 Holger Klein Art History and Archaeology 2010 Jenny Davidson English and Comparative Literature 2009 James Leighton Chemistry 2008 Andrew J. Nathan Political Science 2007 Samuel A. Moyn History 2006 Elizabeth S. Blackmar History 2005 Andreas A. Huyssen Germanic Languages 2004 Gareth David Williams Classics 2003 Robert G. O'Meally English and Comparative Literature 2002 Caroline W. Bynum History 2001 Kathy Hannah Eden English and Comparative Literature; Classics 2000 Michael Stanislawski History 1999 Henry Charles Pinkham Mathematics 1998 Sidney Morgenbesser Philosophy 1997 Steven Marcus English and Comparative Literature 1996 Fritz R. Stern History 1995 James Mirollo English and Comparative Literature 1994 Michael Rosenthal English and Comparative Literature 1993 Donald Hood Psychology 1992 Richard F. Kuhns Philosophy 1991 Joseph A. Rothschild Political Science 1990 Walter P. Metzger History 1989 Kenneth T. Jackson History 1988 William Theodore de Bary East Asian Languages and Cultures 1987 Carl F. Hovde English and Comparative Literature 1986 Edward W. Tayler English and Comparative Literature 1985 Ainslie T. Embree History 1984 J. W. Smit Germanic Languages 1983 Carol Gluck History; East Asian Languages and Cultures 1982 Charles Hamilton Political Science 1981 Henry F. Graff History 1980 Robert L. Belknap Slavic Languages 1979 C. Lowell Harriss Economics 1978 Charles R. Dawson Chemistry 1977 Robert F. Murphy Anthropology 1976 Joseph P. Bauke German 1975 Wallace A. Gray English 1974 Karl-Ludwig Selig Spanish 1973 George W. Flynn Chemistry 1972 Alan F. Westin Public Law 1971 James P. Shenton History 1970 Charles Frankel Philosophy and Public Affairs 1969 Ronald C. Breslow Chemistry; Biological Sciences 1968 Howard M. Davis Art History 1967 Frederick W. Dupee English 1966 Lionel Trilling English 1965 Dwight C. Miner History 1964 Moses Hadas Greek 1963 George Nobbe English 1962 Frank Tannenbaum (Director of University Seminars) The Lionel Trilling Book Award Lionel Trilling (Columbia College 1925, Ph.D. 1938, Faculty 1927–74) was one of the most public of the twentieth century's public intellectuals. He became nationally known for both his scholarship and his literary criticism, which appealed to a wide audience. At Columbia, Trilling was also recognized as a gifted and dedicated teacher with a special commitment to undergraduate education. The Lionel Trilling Book Award was created to honor his memory. The award is given annually by the Columbia College Academic Awards Committee to the author of the book, published by a faculty member in the previous calendar year, that is deemed to best exhibit the standards of intellect and scholarship found in Lionel Trilling’s work. Winners of the Lionel Trilling Book Award include: Year Honorees Book Title Arts and Sciences Department(s) 2019 Andrew Delbanco The War Before the War: Fugitive Slaves and the Struggle for America’s Soul from the Revolution to the Civil War English and Comparative Literature 2018 Gareth Williams Pietro Bembo on Etna: The Ascent of a Venetian Humanist Classics 2017 Elizabeth Povinelli Geontologies: A Requiem to Late Liberalism Anthropology 2016 Susan Pedersen The Guardians: The League of Nations and the Crisis of the Empire History 2015 Zainab Bahrani The Infinite Image: Art, Time and the Aesthetic Dimension in Antiquity Art History and Archaeology 2014 Rashid Khalidi Brokers of Deceit: How the U.S. has Undermined Peace in the Middle East History 2013 Boris Gasparov Beyond Pure Reason: Ferdinand de Saussure's Philosophy of Language and Its Early Romantic Antecedents Slavic Languages 2012 David B. Lurie Realms of Literacy: Early Japan and the History of Writing East Asian Languages and Cultures 2011 James Shapiro Contested Will: Who Wrote Shakespeare? English and Comparative Literature 2010 Katharina Volk Manilius and his Intellectual Background Classics 2009 Mark Mazower Hitler's Empire: How the Nazis Ruled Europe History 2008 Joseph A. Massad Desiring Arabs Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures 2007 Sheldon Pollock The Language of the Gods in the World of Men: Sanskrit, Culture and Power in Premodern India Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures 2006 Andrew Delbanco Melville: His World and Work English and Comparative Literature 2005 Alan D. E. Cameron Greek Mythography in the Roman World Classics 2004 Philip Kitcher In Mendel's Mirror: Philosophical Reflections on Biology Philosophy 2003 William V. Harris Restraining Rage: The Ideology of Anger Control in Classical Antiquity History 2002 Nicholas B. Dirks Castes of Mind: Colonialism and the Making of Modern India Anthropology; History 2001 Jonathan K. Crary Suspension of Perception: Attention, Spectacle, and Modern Culture Art History and Archaeology 2000 Hamid Dabashi Truth and Narrative: The Untimely Thoughts of 'Ayn al-Qudat al-Hamadhani Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures 2000 Brian Greene The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory Mathematics; Physics 1999 Robert C. Lieberman Shifting the Color Line: Race and the American Welfare State International and Public Affairs; Political Science 1998 Robert Jervis System Effects: Complexity in Political and Social Life Political Science 1997 Ira I. Katznelson Liberalism's Crooked Circle: Letters to Adam Michnik Political Science; History 1996 Ann Douglas Terrible Honesty: Mongrel Manhattan in the 1920s English and Comparative Literature 1996 Simon M. Schama Landscape and Memory History; Art History and Archaeology 1995 Robert E. Pollack Signs of Life: The Language and Meanings of DNA Biological Sciences 1994 Edward W. Said Culture and Imperialism English and Comparative Literature 1994 Diana Trilling The Beginning of the Journey: The Marriage of Lionel and Diana Trilling (Special award) 1993 Karl Kroeber Retelling/Rereading: The Fate of Storytelling in Modern Times English and Comparative Literature 1992 Caroline Walker Bynum Fragmentation and Redemption: Essays on Gender and the Human Body in Medieval Religion History 1991 David Cannadine The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy History 1990 Andrew Delbanco The Puritan Ordeal English and Comparative Literature 1989 Eric Foner Reconstruction: America’s Unfinished Revolution 1863-1877 History 1988 Robert F. Murphy The Body Silent: The Different World of the Disabled Anthropology 1987 Carol Gluck Japan’s Modern Myths: Ideology in the Late Meiji Period History; East Asian Languages and Cultures 1986 (No award) 1985 (No award) 1984 W. T. H. Jackson (Posthumous) The Hero and the King: An Epic Theme History 1983 William Theodore de Bary Neo-Confucian Orthodoxy and the Learning of the Mind-and-Heart East Asian Languages and Cultures 1982 Arthur C. Danto The Transfiguration of the Commonplace: A Philosophy of Art Philosophy 1981 Peter R. Pouncey Necessities of War: A Study of Thucydides’ Pessimism Classics 1980 Istvan Deak The Lawful Revolution: Louis Kossuth and the Hungarians, 1848-1849 History 1979 (No award) 1978 Morton Smith Jesus the Magician: Charlatan or Son of God History 1977 Fritz R. Stern Gold and Iron: Bismarck, Bleichröder, and the Building of the German Empire History 1976 Edward W. Said Beginnings: Intention and Method English and Comparative Literature Distinguished Columbia Faculty Award The Distinguished Columbia Faculty Award was created in 2005 when Columbia Trustee Gerry Lenfest '58LAW donated $12 million to the University to establish a new category of awards honoring exceptional teaching in the Arts and Sciences. The awards are given annually to faculty of unusual merit across a range of professorial activities — including scholarship, University citizenship, and professional involvement — with a primary emphasis on the instruction and mentoring of undergraduate and graduate students. Year Honorees Arts and Sciences Department(s) 2019-20 Maria Abascal Sociology Vanessa Agard-Jones Anthropology Niall Bolger Psychology Denise Cruz English Madeline Dobie French Duncan Menge Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Rhiannon Stephens History Madeline Zelin East Asian Languages and Cultures 2018-19 Taoufik Ben-Amor MESAAS Matthew Hart English and Comparative Literature Kimuli Kasara Politicial Science Ben Marcus School of the Arts Serena Ng Economics Pier Mattia Tommasino Italian Gray Tuttle EALAC Maria Uriarte EEEB 2017-18 Coutney Bender Religion Eleanor Johnson English and Comparative Literature Branden Joseph AHAR Molly Przeworski Biology Shelley A. Saltzman American Language Program Neslihan Senocak History Josef Sorett Religion Marc Van de Mieroop History 2016-2017 Elisheva Carlebach History James Curley Psychology Valentina Izmirlieva Slavic Languages Matthew Mckelway Art History and Archaeology Samuel Roberts History Rachel Rosen Physics Dustin Rubenstein Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Oliver Simons Germanic Languages 2015-2016 Marcel Agueros Astronomy Gil Anidjar Religion Susan Boynton Music Terrence D'Altroy Anthropology Timothy Donnelley School of the Arts Michael Golston English and Comparative Literature Barbel Honisch Earth and Environmental Sciences Dana Pe'er Biological Sciences 2014-2015 Brian Cole Physics Patricia Dailey English and Comparative Literature Souleymane Bachir Diagne French and Romance Philology Bradford Garton Music Stathis Gourgouris Classics Rebecca Kobrin History Liza Knapp Slavic Languages Feng Li East Asian Languages and Cultures Molly Murray English and Comparative Literature Carol Rovane Philosophy Dorothea von Mücke Germanic Languages 2013-2014 Elizabeth Blackmar History Virginia Page Fortna Political Science Erik Gray English and Comparative Literature Peter Kelemen Earth and Environmental Sciences Ioannis Mylonopoulos Art History and Archaeology Christine Philliou History Valerie Purdie-Vaughns Psychology Joanna Stalnaker French and Romance Philology Brent Stockwell Biology Rafael Yuste Biolgoy 2012-2013 Frances A. Champagne Psychology Jean Cohen Political Science Giuseppe Gerbino Music Don J. Melnick Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Rosalind C. Morris Anthropology Gerard Parkin Chemistry Caterina Pizzigoni History Ovidiu Savin Mathematics Melissa Schwartzberg Political Science Joseph Slaughter English and Comparative Literature 2011-2012 Fredrick C. Harris Political Science Laura J. Kaufman Chemistry Holger A. Klein Art History and Archaeology Mark Mazower History Frances Negron-Muntaner Slavic Languages Cathy Popkin Slavic Languages Emmanuelle Saada French and Romance Philology Robert Y. Shapiro Political Science Daphna Shohamy Psychology 2010-2011 Rachel Adams English and Comparative Literature Stuart Firestein Biological Sciences Mahmood Mamdani Anthropology Stephen Murray Art History and Archaeology Paul Olsen Earth and Environmental Sciences Susan Pedersen History Achille Varzi Philosophy Katharina Volk Classics 2009-2010 Stefan Andriopoulos Germanic Languages Harmen Bussemaker Biological Sciences Julie Crawford English and Comparative Literature Steve Goldstein Earth and Environmental Sciences Lydia Goehr Philosophy Ruben Gonzalez Chemistry David Scott Anthropology 2008-2009 Francesco de Angelis Art History and Archaeology Christopher Brown History Brent Edwards English and Comparative Literature Darcy Kelley Biological Sciences Philip Kitcher Philosophy Kevin Ochsner Psychology Nadia Urbinati Political Science 2007-2008 Lila Abu-Lughod Anthropology Zainab Bahrani Art History and Archaeology Nicholas Dames English and Comparative Literature Peter deMenocal Earth and Environmental Sciences Sharon Marcus English and Comparative Literature Amber Miller Physics Shahid Naeem Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Colin Nuckolls Chemistry Pablo Piccato History Sudhir Venkatesh Sociology Katja Vogt Philosophy 2006-2007 Virginia W. Cornish Chemistry Geraldine Downey Psychology Robert E. Harrist, Jr. Art History and Archaeology Rashid Khalidi History Philip Kim Physics Samuel A. Moyn History Robert G. O’Meally English and Comparative Literature Elizabeth A. Povinelli Anthropology Xavier Sala-i-Martin Economics Wei Shang East Asian Languages and Cultures 2005-2006 Janet M. Conrad Physics Jonathan K. Crary Art History and Archaeology Jenny M. Davidson English and Comparative Literature Gil Eyal Sociology Pierre Force French and Romance Philology Farah Jasmine Griffin English and Comparative Literature Matthew L. Jones History James L. Leighton Chemistry Eric Jean-Paul Urban Mathematics Gareth David Williams Classics Nobel Prize The Nobel Prize, administered by the Nobel Foundation, based in Stockholm, Sweden, recognizes achievements in physics, chemistry, physiology or medicine, literature, economics, and for peace. The Nobel Prize is widely regarded as one of the most prestigious awards given for intellectual achievement in the world. Year Nobel Laureates Prize Arts and Sciences Department(s) 2017 Joachim Frank Chemistry Biological Sciences 2008 Martin Chalfie Chemistry Biological Sciences 2006 Edmund S. Phelps Economic Sciences Economics 2006 Orhan Pamuk Literature Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures; Arts 2001 Joseph E. Stiglitz Economic Sciences Business, International and Public Affairs, Economics 1999 Robert A. Mundell (Emeritus) Economic Sciences Economics 1998 Horst L. Störmer Physics Physics 1996 William Vickrey Economic Sciences Economics 1975 James Rainwater Physics Physics 1957 Tsung-Dao Lee Physics Physics 1955 Polykarp Kusch Physics Physics 1949 Hideki Yukawa Physics Physics 1944 Isidor Isaac Rabi Physics Physics 1934 Harold C. Urey Chemistry Chemistry 1931 Nicholas Murray Butler Peace n/a (University President) National Academy of Sciences The National Academy of Sciences (NAS) is an honorific society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research dedicated to the furtherance of science and technology and to their use for the general welfare. NAS Members NAS Section Arts and Sciences Department(s) Boris L. Altshuler Applied Physical Sciences Physics Richard Axel Medical Genetics, Hematology and Oncology Biological Sciences Peter Bearman Sociology Sociology Bruce J. Berne Chemistry Chemistry Jagdish N. Bhagwati Economic Sciences Economics Ronald C. Breslow Chemistry Chemistry; Biological Sciences Wallace S. Broecker Geophysics Earth and Environmental Sciences Louis E. Brus Chemistry Chemistry Mark A. Cane Earth and Climate Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences Marian Carlson Genetics Biological Sciences Martin Chalfie Genetics Biological Sciences Ruth S. DeFries Human Environmental Sciences Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Kenneth B. Eisenthal Chemistry Chemistry George W. Flynn Chemistry Chemistry Joachim Frank Biophysics and Computation Biology Biological Sciences Norma V. Graham Psychology Psychology Iva S. Greenwald Genetics Biological Sciences Richard S. Hamilton Mathematics Mathematics James E. Hansen Geophysics Earth and Environmental Sciences Wayne A. Hendrickson Biochemistry Biological Sciences Julian Hochberg Psychological and Cognitive Sciences Psychology Barry H. Honig Biophysics and Computational Biology Biological Sciences Eric R. Kandel Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience Biological Sciences Peter B. Keleman Geophysics Earth and Environmental Sciences Tsung-Dao Lee Physics Physics James L. Manley Biochemistry Biological Sciences Ann E. McDermott Biophysics and Computational Biology Chemistry; Biological Sciences Walter Mischel Psychology Psychology John Morgan TBA Mathematics Andrei Okounkov Mathematics Mathematics Paul E. Olsen Geology Earth and Environmental Sciences Edmund S. Phelps Economic Sciences Economics Terry A. Plank Geochemistry Earth and Environmental Sciences Carol L. Prives Medical Genetics, Hematology, and Oncology Biological Sciences Walter Clarkson Pitman III Geology Earth and Environmental Sciences Malvin A. Ruderman Physics Physics Pedro A. Sanchez Human Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences José Scheinkman Economic Sciences Economics Frank Sciulli TBA Physics Edward E. Smith Psychology Psychology Sean C. Solomon Geophysics Earth and Environmental Sciences Joseph E. Stiglitz Economic Sciences Business, International and Public Affairs, Economics Gilbert Stork Chemistry Chemistry Horst L. Störmer Applied Physical Sciences Physics Lynn R. Sykes Geology Earth and Environmental Sciences Charles H. Tilly Social and Political Sciences Sociology Nicholas J. Turro Chemistry Chemistry David Walker Geology Earth and Environmental Sciences Harrison C. White Social and Political Sciences Sociology The American Academy of Arts and Sciences The American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAAS) is an international learned society whose members are of exceptional achievement, drawn from science, scholarship, business, public affairs, and the arts. AAAS Members AAAS Class Arts and Sciences Department(s) 2018 Deborah Eisenberg Literature School of the Arts Robert Gooding-Williams Philosophy and Religious Studies Philosophy Julia Hirschberg Computer Sciences Computer Science Patricia Kitcher Philosophy and Religious Studies Philosophy George Lewis Music Music David Reichman Chemistry Chemistry Lorraine Symington Cellular & Developmental Biology, Microbiology, and Immunology Microbiology and Immunology 2017 Darcy Kelley Neurosciences, Cognitive Sciences, and Behavioral Biology Biological Sciences Lynn Nottage Literature School of the Arts 2016 Marianne Hirsch Literary Criticism (including Philology) IRWGS and English Andrei Okounkov Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, and Statistics Mathematics Susan Pedersen History History Terry Plank Engineering Sciences and Technologies Earth and Environmental Sciences Colm Toibin Literature English Elke Weber Social and Developmental Psychology and Education Psychology and Business pre-2016 Teodolinda Barolini Literary Criticism (including Philology) Italian Peter S. Bearman Archaeology, Anthropology, Sociology, Geography and Demography Sociology Bruce J. Berne Chemistry Chemistry Jagdish N. Bhagwati Economics Economics Ronald C. Breslow Chemistry Chemistry; Biological Sciences Alan Brinkley History History Mark A. Cane Astronomy (including Astrophysics) and Earth Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences Martin Chalfie Cellular and Developmental Biology, Microbiology and Immunology (including Genetics) Biological Sciences Antoine Marcel Compagnon Literary Criticism (including Philology) French and Romance Philology Lynn A. Cooper Social and Developmental Psychology and Education Psychology William Theodore de Bary Literary Criticism (including Philology) East Asian Languages and Cultures Ruth S. DeFries Archaeology, Anthropology, Sociology, Geography and Demography Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology Victoria de Grazia History History Andrew Delbanco Literary Criticism (including Philology) English and Comparative Literature Ann Douglas History English and Comparative Literature Duong H. Phong Mathematics Mathematics Michael W. Doyle Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy International and Public Affairs, Law, Political Science Jon Elster Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy Political Science Robert S. Erikson Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy Political Science George W. Flynn Chemistry Chemistry Eric Foner History History David A. Freedberg History Art History and Archaeology Richard A. Friesner Chemistry Chemistry Carol Gluck History History; East Asian Languages and Cultures Michael Goldberg Systems Neuroscience Psychology Dorian Goldfeld Mathematics Mathematics Norma V. Graham Neurosciences, Cognitive Sciences and Behavioral Biology Psychology Richard S. Hamilton Mathematics Mathematics William V. Harris History History Hervé Jacquet Mathematics Mathematics Edward Tory Higgins Social and Developmental Psychology and Education Psychology Donald C. Hood Psychology Psychology John D. Huber Political Science Political Science Kenneth T. Jackson History History Robert Jervis Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy Political Science Thomas J. Katz Chemistry Chemistry Ira I. Katznelson Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy Political Science; History Alice Kessler-Harris History History Rashid Khalidi History History Philip Kitcher Philosophy and Religious Studies Philosophy Robert M. Krauss Social and Developmental Psychology and Education Psychology Tsung-Dao Lee Physics Physics Robert H. Legvold Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy Political Science James L. Manley Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Biological Sciences Walter Mischel Social and Developmental Psychology and Education Psychology Alfred H. Mueller Physics Physics Robert A. Mundell (Emeritus) Economics Economics Orhan Pamuk Literature (Fiction, Poetry, Short Stories, Nonfiction, Playwriting, Screenwriting) Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures Christopher A.B. Peacocke Philosophy and Religious Studies Philosophy Gustavo F. Pérez-Firmat Literary Criticism (including Philology) Spanish and Portuguese Edmund S. Phelps Economics Economics Sheldon Pollack Literary Criticism (including Philology) Middle East South Asian and African Studies Ross Posnock Literary Criticism (including Philology) English and Comparative Literature Kenneth Prewitt Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy International and Public Affairs Carol L. Prives Cellular and Developmental Biology, Microbiology and Immunology (including Genetics) Biological Sciences Wayne L. Proudfoot Philosophy and Religious Studies Religion Paul G. Richards Astronomy (including Astrophysics) and Earth Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences David Rosand Visual and Performing Arts–Criticism and Practice (including Art, Architecture, Sculpture, Music, Theater, Film, Dance) Art History and Archaeology Malvin A. Ruderman Physics Physics Jeffrey D. Sachs Economics, International and Public Affairs, Healthy Policy and Management Economics, International and Public Affairs, Healthy Policy and Management Simon M. Schama History History; Art History and Archaeology José Scheinkman Economics Economics Rae Silver Neurosciences, Cognitive Sciences and Behavioral Biology Psychology Elaine Sisman Performing Arts – Criticism and Practice Music Edward E. Smith Social and Developmental Psychology and Education Psychology Jack Lewis Snyder Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy Political Science Robert E. Somerville Philosophy and Religious Studies Religion; History Alfred C. Stepan Political Science, International Relations and Public Policy International and Public Affairs Horst L. Störmer Physics Physics Charles H. Tilly Anthropology, Archaeology, Sociology, Demography and Geography Sociology Nicholas J. Turro Chemistry Chemistry Barbara G. Tversky Psychology Psychology David Walker Astronomy (including Astrophysics) and Earth Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences Harrison C. White Anthropology, Archaeology, Sociology, Demography and Geography Sociology William J. Willis Physics Physics Michael Woodford Economics Economics Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.