Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Contingency Planning Resources COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Columbia has launched a centralized COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community. This site will house mission-critical content for the Columbia campus community. The new hub is a more sustainable, long-term solution—a comprehensive, one-stop shop for our community’s information needs during this challenging time. Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 The below page contains a variety of resources related to Arts & Sciences contingency planning and is focused on the needs of A&S faculty and staff.. This page will be frequently updated with a record of A&S-wide contingency planning communications, a growing library of resources for administrators and faculty. This page is being updated frequently. Please refer to this guide for Working From Home: WiFi/Network Considerations You may navigate directly to the resources most relevant to you via the below links: Zoom and Courseworks/Canvas information Online Teaching Resources Administrator Resources Getting Help with Zoom or Courseworks/Canvas Zoom Security and Privacy -- how to secure your Zoom sessions from unwanted disruption Using Zoom Virtual Background Zoom Cloud Recordings: All Zoom Pro users may record sessions to the cloud. This is typically enabled by default for all "Zoom Class Sessions" in Canvas. If you need to manually record to the cloud, please see Zoom's Cloud Recording page for instructions For Zoom support -- including support during class -- please contact CUIT's help desk directly at 212-854-1919 or [email protected] and make clear that you are calling about Zoom. You will be transferred to a dedicated support team, and you call will be escalated to specialized technicians as necessary. For Canvas/Courseworks and instructional support -- including Zoom/Canvas training requests -- please contact CTL directly at 212-854-1692 or [email protected]. CTL currently has staff will be on-hand to assist as necessary, both in-person and online. The Language Resource Center has excellent resources for Distance Teaching for Language Instructors, which are also largely applicable to all Columbia Zoom courses. Columbia is now offering additional zoom sessions, multiple times a day as below. These sessions will run Tuesday-Friday this week. No RSVP is required, join using the below links: Morning 9-10 AM: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/628071344 Afternoon 12- 1 PM - https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/168130101 Afternoon 3-4 PM - https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/208467277 If you are receiving an error when signing into Zoom: Before contacting the CUIT Zoom team at the above email address, please attempt to sign in here: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/signin If you can login and your "User Type" is listed as "Licensed", then you have Zoom Pro already. If "User Type" is "Basic", you do have not yet been upgraded. If you receive an error signing into Zoom (especially "Something went wrong while you tried signing in with SSO"), or if you believe that you should have a Zoom Pro account and do not, please contact [email protected] and include the error that you received or note your request for Zoom Pro. The CUIT Zoom team is aware of this error and is working with Zoom directly to resolve it, as well as provision accounts that may have not succeeded in the initial activation. Your Zoom Pro account issue will be resolved ASAP. CUIT's helpdesk is scaling up and will be available to provide support for Zoom-related issues (joining a meeting, starting a meeting, techincal issues with cameras/microphones, etc.). CTL will also be available (via CUIT) to provide support for Courseworks/Canvas issues (setting up discussions, assignments, communications, etc.). Online Teaching Resources: For information and support with remote assessment (e.g., exams, midterms, etc.), please contact the Center for Teaching and Learning at [email protected] or 212-854-1692. Please also consult CTL's Contingency Planning page, which includes resources for creating assignments, exams, annd quizzes within Courseworks/Canvas. The Center for Teaching and Learning has produced a useful central resource page for Teaching Online During University Closures Our colleagues in SPS have made live online Zoom training sessions available on the following dates (register here): Tuesday, March 10 from 6-7 PM Wednesday, March 11 from 12-1 PM Thursday, March 12 from 12-1 PM Tuesday, March 17 from 12-1 pm Wednesday, March 18th from 1-2 PM Thursday, March 19th from 6-7 PM Zoom offers a wide library of video tutorials for many features Comprehensive Guide to Educating Through Zoom Tips and Tricks for Teachers Educating on Zoom Peer institutions around the world have been compliling similar resources for remote teaching -- you may wish to consult their offering for additional ideas, information, guides, etc. You may view a clearinghouse list of these resources on this Google Sheet for Remote Teaching Resources for Business Continuity Administator Resources: Remote I-9 Processing Guidance Using Zoom Virtual Backgrounds Managing Remote Teams Best Practice Guide A&S Tips for Managing Remote Employees If you are receiving an error when signing into Zoom: Before contacting the CUIT Zoom team at the above email address, please attempt to sign in here: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/signin If you can login and your "User Type" is listed as "Licensed", then you have Zoom Pro already. If "User Type" is "Basic", you do have not yet been upgraded. If you receive an error signing into Zoom (especially "Something went wrong while you tried signing in with SSO"), or if you believe that you should have a Zoom Pro account and do not, please contact [email protected] and include the error that you received or note your request for Zoom Pro. The CUIT Zoom team is aware of this error and is working with Zoom directly to resolve it, as well as provision accounts that may have not succeeded in the initial activation. Your Zoom Pro account issue will be resolved ASAP. How to install the CUIT VPN Consider moving essential documents onto either an existing shared drive (see below) or LionMail (Google) Drive. This will allow you to access your essential data remotely, in addition to all web-based Columbia platforms -- web based platforms (PAC, ARC, Financial Data Store, etc., do not require VPN access). Accessing shared drives (e.g., J:, X:, S:, H:, G:) from off-campus (PC users and Mac Users) Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.