Skip to main content Columbia University Home CC GS GSAS SPS SOA Email Search form Search Columbia University Faculty of Arts and Sciences Main menu Home Administrator Resources Chair Resources Faculty Resources Home Contingency Planning Spring 2022 Communications Fall 2020 Communications Course Evaluation Policy for Spring 2020 Working from Home: WiFi/Network Considerations About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Previous Executive Vice Presidents History of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee A&S Faculty Committees Divisional Deans Diversity in the Arts and Sciences PPC Equity Reports A&S Diversity Statistics A&S Faculty Development & Diversity Divisions Division of Humanities Division of Natural Sciences Division of Social Science Administrative Office of EVP Administrative Directory Calendar Frequently Requested Forms Rooms Schools Departments News Highlights News Newsletters Recognition and Awards Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Space Policy for Arts and Science Departments, Centers and Institutes Rooms Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Essential Policies for the Columbia Community Student Email Communication Policy Columbia University has established email as an official means of communication with students. This policy outlines student rules and responsibilities with regards to Columbia University email addresses. Information Technology Policies Columbia University maintains certain policies with regard to the use and security of its Information Technology (IT) resources, including computer usage, computer systems and networks. All users of Columbia University's IT resources and facilities are expected to be familiar with and adhere to the Columbia University IT policies. Social Security Number Reporting In accordance with the Internal Revenue Service, the University requires students who will be receiving financial aid or payment through the University payroll system to report their Social Security Number at the time of admission. Policy on Access to Student Records under the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974, as Amended This policy sets forth Columbia’s application of FERPA, a Federal law protecting the rights of students and their families with regards to the privacy of their educational records. University Regulations These University Regulations govern all registered students, as defined by the regulations. They contain policies on attendance, religious holidays, hazardous activity in connection with initiations and affiliations, possession of firearms on campus, student discipline, academic discipline, and the updated Rules of University Conduct. International Travel Planning Policy Key to Columbia’s mission is support for research and teaching on global issues. These activities frequently involve travel outside the United States. This policy establishes a set of guidelines and requirements for planning international travel. This policy covers international Columbia Travel, which includes Columbia-Led Travel and Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel. It does not cover Non-Columbia Travel. Policies on Alcohol and Drugs These policies on alcohol and drugs aim to provide an academic and social environment that supports individual freedom while promoting individual responsibility, health and safety, and community welfare, in compliance with New York State law and other applicable regulations. Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination Policies, and Procedures on Discrimination, Discriminatory Harassment, and Sexual Harassment Maintained by the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action, these policies govern students and employees of the University with regards to equal opportunity and nondiscrimination. Gender-Based Misconduct Policies for Students Columbia University provides educational and preventative programs, services for individuals who have been impacted by gender-based and sexual misconduct, and accessible, prompt, and equitable methods of investigation and resolution. The University does not tolerate sexual misconduct of any kind. Protection of Minors This policy creates an independent duty for members of the Columbia University community who interact with, supervise, chaperone, or otherwise oversee minors in programs or activities at the University or sponsored by the University to report immediately if they have reasonable cause to suspect abuse or maltreatment of individuals under the age of 18. University Event Policies These policies delineate a framework to aid University groups and organizations in planning and scheduling events at Columbia. Student organizations, managers of Columbia event venues, and University departments and groups requesting to reserve campus facilities or outdoor spaces are expected to follow these policies. Policy on Partisan Political Activity Columbia University, as a tax-exempt organization under Section 501(c)(3) of IRS Code, is prohibited from participating or intervening in any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. Political intervention includes not only making financial contributions but also the publication or distribution of written or oral statements on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office. This policy does not govern community members in their individual capacity as private citizens. Campus Safety and Security The Department of Public Safety governs policies on campus safety and publishes an annual security report containing information on security policies and crime incidents. Columbia University is committed to the safety and well-being of our students, faculty, and staff. The Public Safety Annual Security Report is available online and printed copies are available at the Public Safety offices on both the Morningside and Medical Center campuses. Crime Definitions in Accordance with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Uniform Crime Reporting Program Columbia University, in accordance with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, provides crime definitions published by the Uniform Crime Reporting Program (UCR). The UCR is a city, county and state law enforcement program, which provides a nationwide view of crime based on the submission of statistics by law enforcement agencies throughout the country. These include definitions of certain crimes, sex offenses and hate crimes. Use of Hoverboards on University Campus and Property This policy is established to reduce risks and maintain the safety of members of the Columbia University community. Due to safety concerns, the University bans the use of hoverboards (also known as self-balancing scooters or smart boards) on University campus and prohibits the use of these devices on campus grounds. This ban extends to any and all property owned, rented, leased, and controlled by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. Use of Unmanned Aircraft Systems on University Campus and Property This policy is established to reduce risks and maintain the safety of members of the Columbia University community. Due to safety concerns, the University bans the use of hoverboards (also known as self-balancing scooters or smart boards) on University campus and prohibits the use of these devices on campus grounds. This ban extends to any and all property owned, rented, leased, and controlled by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. Leave of Absence Policies: Voluntary, Involuntary, and Military These policies govern different situations of withdrawal and leave from the University. For more specific information about leaves, students should refer to their school bulletins or speak with their Dean of Students (DOS). Central Administration of the University’s Academic Programs This policy provides oversight for compliance with federal, state and institutional requirements governing the University’s approved academic programs, as they relate to student records and student financial aid. All schools at Columbia University are governed by this policy. Student Consumer Information In accordance with the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended by the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, Columbia University provides pertinent information and disclosures for enrolled and prospective students. Essential Resources This section provides a summary of some of the most important resources at Columbia University: Disability Services, Ombuds Office, and Transcripts and Certifications. As a member of the Columbia Community, you are responsible for familiarizing yourself with these important University policies. For the full policy texts, as well as links to additional resources, please refer to Essential Policies for the Columbia Community, available online at http://www.essential-policies.columbia.edu. For your reference, additional University policies are published in the Administrative Policy Library at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/. Please be aware that policies are subject to change, and for the most updated information, consult the website. Home Contingency Planning About Faculty of Arts and Sciences Diversity in the Arts and Sciences Divisions Administrative Office of EVP Schools Departments News Highlights Uris Transformation Policies for the Columbia Community Office 208 Low Library, MC 4314 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 T: (212) 854-6104 Administrator Resources Instructional Appointments Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Global Resources A&S Policies Facilities Work Life A&S Department Administrators Meetings A&S IT Chair Resources Instructional Appointments Finance and Budgeting Promotion and Tenure Leave and Top-up Policy Research Appointments Staff Appointments Student Appointments Global Resources Facilities Work Life Other Faculty Reviews Faculty Mentoring Plans A&S Department Course Listings A&S Chairs Meetings A&S Reporting A&S Faculty Development & Diversity A&S IT Faculty Resources Awards and Fellowships Course Evaluations Junior Faculty Resources Lecturer Resources New Faculty Resources Leave and Top-up Policy Other Faculty Reviews Promotion and Tenure Relocation and Housing Research Funding Student Grievance Policy Teaching Resources Work Life A&S Faculty Meetings A&S IT Search form Search Follow Us Copyright 2022 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY. All rights reserved.