Syracuse University | Academic Strategic Plan Skip to Content Toggle navigation People Search Search SU Search Show All Results Close search results About The Plan The Student Experience Discovery Internationalization Commitment to Veterans Innovation One University Highlights & Milestones Planning Process Academic Strategic Plan About January 18, 2018 • by Melissa Lowry Trajectory To Excellence (PDF version or Word Document) is Syracuse University’s Academic Strategic Plan that sets an ambitious vision for the University that builds on its strengths and leverages external opportunities. It defines the University’s vision and strategic direction, details the University’s priorities, and identifies specific actions and plans to pursue and investments that must be made. The Academic Strategic Plan has six themes that will ultimately: Improve the student experience through a focus on creating unsurpassed student experiences, internationalization, faculty development and attentiveness to special populations especially veteran and military connected students. Elevate discovery and innovation through faculty development, graduate education, support for research and entrepreneurship and infrastructure investment. Interim Vice Chancellor and Provost John Liu, working collaboratively with deans, faculty and staff, leads the efforts to implement the academic plan that was developed in 2014 through a campus-wide effort led by interim provost Liz Liddy and a 27-member steering committee and was approved by the board of trustees in April 2015. Invest Syracuse provides the initial funding strategy to support the Academic Strategic Plan. To support the implementation of the Academic Strategic Plan, the Campus Framework outlines the campus growth and renewal efforts to support excellence in teaching, learning, research and scholarship, and advance our standing as an academically distinguished, student-focused, international research university. Each school and college has developed a strategic plan in alignment with the six themes: The Student Experience Discovery Internationalization Commitment to Veterans and Military-Connected Families Innovation One University Working as One University to support our diverse community to achieve all of our goals together. Crouse-Hinds Hall, Suite 500 | 900 S. Crouse Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-2130•315.443.1728 © 2022 – Syracuse University. All Rights Reserved. • Accessibility | Privacy | Status | syr.edu