Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Contact Us News FBNS Digest Archive International Programs Department Intranet Directory Faculty Staff Emeriti Students Undergraduate Graduate Minors and Certificates Online Learning Student Life Career Opportunities Scholarships and Financial Aid Research Extension and Outreach Extension Programs and Product Testing Courses, Workshops and Certifications Community Outreach Partnerships Alumni and Giving Employee Portal Think and Do The Extraordinary Support the Unit Home About Directory Students Research Extension and Outreach Partnerships Employee Portal Full Site Navigation About Contact Us News FBNS Digest Archive International Programs Department Intranet Directory Faculty Staff Emeriti Students Undergraduate Graduate Minors and Certificates Online Learning Student Life Career Opportunities Scholarships and Financial Aid Extension and Outreach Extension Programs and Product Testing Courses, Workshops and Certifications Community Outreach Partnerships Alumni and Giving Healthy, Happy Eating Our research brings you the safe, nutritious, sustainable foods you need and enjoy. Your Food Is Our Science You may not think about how the food in your grocery cart got there. Fortunately, we do. We evaluate and discover everything from breakfast meat to the next big thing in healthy drinks to ensure consumers have access to an abundant and safe food supply. We conduct research, work with manufacturers and pass our knowledge along to the next generation of food industry leaders. Next time you’re picking up dinner, think of us. We’re the ones who helped make sure it’s safe, nutritious and sustainable. Explore Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences At A Glance View and download our brochures for a quick synopsis of our departmental offerings: General Academic Extension Research Department News More News Mar 28, 2022 Could Plasma Be a Sustainable Solution for Sanitation? Imagine never having to worry about washing your produce before you eat it. Read More Mar 16, 2022 Seed Funding Speeds Growth for TreeCo — an NC State Startup After receiving support from the Chancellor’s Innovation Fund, two professors’ sustainable forestry startup is using new technology to mitigate climate change. Read More Feb 17, 2022 Morgan Weinberg: Professional Candy Maker Morgan Weinberg is focusing on the sweeter things in life by using her food science degree to work in research and development of sugary, confection products. Read More Related Websites Food Safety Education and Training A Taste of Food Science Education Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences North Carolina State University Campus Box 7624 Raleigh, NC 27695-7624 NC State is an equal opportunity institution. News Events Diversity Accessibility Copyright Emergency Login Department Intranet Publications Archive Families First Coronavirus Response Act Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy