Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Florida Center for Advanced Aero-Propulsion Sign In Search FSU Navigation Select Search Type FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Search Search Sign In Research Facilities Organization Partners News Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Research Facilities Organization Partners News Florida Center for Advanced Aero-Propulsion formed to meet the needs of a rapidly evolving and highly competitive aerospace industry. Read more Florida Center for Advanced Aero-Propulsion Working to create an unrivalled pool of intellectual & physical resources Read more Florida Center for Advanced Aero-Propulsion Striving to develop innovative technologies for the next generation of air and spacecraft and related areas, in collaboration with industry and government. Read more Florida Center for Advanced Aero-Propulsion Enhancing Florida’s (& the nation’s) aerospace, aviation and related education and training programs Read more Florida Center for Advanced Aero-Propulsion Helping to build a high-wage, high-skill, workforce leading to a Diverse, knowledge-based economy with sustainable growth Read more Florida Center for Aero-Propulsion A vital link between Academia, Industry and Government to meet next-generation R&D challenges and Workforce Development. Florida Center for Aero-Propulsion Enhancing Florida’s (& the nation’s) aerospace, aviation and related education and training programs Enhancing Florida’s (& the nation’s) aerospace, aviation and related education and training programs Read More Core Research Focus The principal focus of FCAAP is on aerospace and aviation research and technology, and FCAAP's efforts in this industry are having a major impact on Florida and the entire nation. Experimental Aerodynamics Aeroacoustics and Flow Control Modeling and Simulations Testing and Evaluation Mechanics and Materials State of the Art Facilities The Florida Center for Aero-propulsion features a wide array of state of the art laboratories and facilities. Anechoic Wind Tunnel Open-circuit subsonic facility with state-of-the-art experimental fluid dynamic and aeroacoustic measurement capabilities. Polysonic Wind Tunnel Next-generation wind tunnel capable of running tests from Mach 0.2 to 5.0 including transonic speeds. Subsonic Wind Tunnel Single-pass, Eiffel-styled wind tunnel, driven by a 200 hp suck-down fan STOVL The Short Take-off and Vertical Landing Jet Facility provides a means to study both free jet and impinging jet flow physics through the use of several optical diagnostic techniques Hot Jet Facility This lab produces high-temperature, high-speed airflow that is essential to accurately simulate the exhaust from a jet engine Microactuator Development Laboratory Experiments conducted in this laboratory typically include measuring acoustic data, unsteady pressure fluctuations, and velocity field measurements using Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV). FAA Center of Excellence for Commercial Space Transportation Research In 2011, FCAAP became an FAA Center of Excellence for Commercial Space Transportation Research. Congress authorized Air Transportation Centers of Excellence under the Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering and Development Authorization Act of 1990. This legislation enables the FAA to work with universities and their industry partners to conduct research in environment and aviation safety, and other activities to assure a safe and efficient air transportation system. Research will extend to cutting-edge technologies and infrastructure for private human spaceflight and orbital debris mitigation. In 2011, FCAAP became an FAA Center of Excellence for Commercial Space Transportation Research. Congress authorized Air Transportation Centers of Excellence under the Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering and Development Authorization Act of 1990. This legislation enables the FAA to work with universities and their industry partners to conduct research in environment and aviation safety, and other activities to assure a safe and efficient air transportation system. Research will extend to cutting-edge technologies and infrastructure for private human spaceflight and orbital debris mitigation. Address 2003 Levy Ave Tallahassee, Florida 32310 Maps Contact ame@fsu.edu Phone: 850-645-2631 Office Hours Monday - Friday: 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM EST Issues Technical Problems? © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 AME SharePoint (Internal) Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media