Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | The Florida Center for Prevention Research Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home News Staff Projects Services/Sponsors/Partners Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The Florida Center for Prevention Research Toggle navigation Home News Staff Projects Services/Sponsors/Partners Home title-inside title-centered 2 Vision and Mission Our vision is to establish a reputable and respected prevention, research, and services organization. Our mission is to provide innovative research, education, training, and technological solutions to address the challenges of substance abuse prevention and other social issues among Florida's population. FCPR history On August 25, 1997, the State of Florida won a landmark lawsuit against the tobacco industry and was awarded an $11.3 billion settlement. The first $200 million received by the State was earmarked to fund a pilot program to reduce youth tobacco use. The Florida Center for Prevention Research (FCPR) was created at Florida State University to support the Florida Tobacco Pilot Program from its inception in February 1998 until its termination on June 30, 2003. Since 2003, the 20 person FCPR team expanded its depth and breadth in substance abuse prevention capabilities under contracts and grants from the Office of the Governor, Department of Children and Families, Department of Education, the U.S. Department of education and others. Located at 2200 Old St Augustine Road in Tallahassee (Off-Campus), FCPR has managed projects in excess of $21 million, ranging from health care to youth programs. Project Managers come with a variety of experience and skills to partner with agencies, through their unique talents they provide sound services and products. Agencies find that while working with FCPR, they work with a team - a successful team that is mission focused! Contact Cynthia B. Wilson, Ph.D., CFLE Executive Director cbwilson2@fsu.edu The Florida Center for Prevention Research Florida State University 2200 Old St. Augustine Road Tallahassee, FL 32301 Office Phone: 850-296-7403 General Email: FCPR@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media