Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Facilities and Campus Services Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home About Us Announcements Capital Projects Diversity Getting to Humphreys Service Building Facilities and Campus Services Values FCS Org Chart Leadership Master Planning Rewards and Recognition Service Level Agreements Services Building Information and Documents COVID Information Event Support Mail Parking and Transportation Repair and Maintenance Projects Start a Project Project Management Checklists Project Management Guidance Documents View All Project Resources... Bidding Process Contractors and Consultants Design Standards & Details Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Shutdowns Green Building (LEED) Support Mapping Project Approval Requests (PARs) Schedule a Utility Shutdown Utility Locating Departments Contract Colleges Facilities Cornell University Police Department Energy and Sustainability Facilities Management Finance & Administration Engineering and Project Management Human Resources for FCS Office of the University Architect Transportation and Delivery Services For Contractors For FCS Employees Contact FCS Parking and Transportation Parking Basics Construction Impacts Contractor/Vendor Parking Options Lease a University Fleet Vehicle Special Event Transportation and Parking Breadcrumb Services Parking and Transportation Special Event Transportation and Parking Special Event Transportation and Parking Commencement 2022 The university will host two commencement ceremonies on May 28. In order to keep everything running smoothly for all graduates and guests, please: Review parking options and shuttle routes. Plan to wear a mask when riding shuttles. Comply with all traffic control signage and directions. Accessible Parking Accessible parking accommodations must be requested via the Office of Commencement Events. Shuttle Transportation Park and Ride Shuttle Service Saturday Free campus bus service will be available from 7:30 a.m. until approximately 5 p.m. and will travel between the parking lots noted on the map. Bus frequency is approximately every ten to fifteen minutes. Buses are fully accessible and will travel from the pick-up locations at the A Lot, Central Campus, B Lot, and on to the Crescent Lot behind the stadium. Parking and Shuttle Maps Friday, May 27 Events (Cornell Campus Map) Campus parking lots are open to all guests attending the individual college events throughout the day and evening. Saturday, May 28 Events (Saturday Campus Access Map) 1st University Commencement Ceremony, 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Stadium Gates Open: 8 a.m. Academic Procession from Arts Quad: 9 a.m. - 10 a.m. Ceremony: 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Exit Stadium and Parking Lots: 11 a.m. - 12 p.m. 2nd University Commencement Ceremony, 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Stadium Gates Open: 12:30 p.m. Academic Procession from Arts Quad: 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Ceremony: 2:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Exit Stadium: 3:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Road Closures Saturday, May 28 Traffic will be prohibited on: Campus Road between College Avenue to Wing Drive from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hoy Road will be closed from Campus Road to Hoy Parking Garage lower entrance from 7 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Garden Ave. will be closed between Campus Road and Tower Road, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Feeney Way will be closed between Campus Road and Tower Road, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Feeney Way between Tower Road and University Ave. will ONLY be open for buses. Tower Road between Feeney Way and Judd Falls will ONLY be open for buses. Reunion Weekend 2022 Fall Move-In 2022 Contact Us Transportation Services 116 Maple Avenue Ithaca NY 14850-4902 transportation@cornell.edu t: 607-255-4600 f: 607-255-0257 Hours of Operation 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., M-F Tools Accessible Transportation Options Cornell Event Calendar Office of Commencement Events Campus Event Planning Cornell Conference Services Conference Parking Request Form Short-Term Parking Options See Also Contact FCS Org Chart FCS Leadership Careers Cornell Quick Links Cornell Home Page CUInfo Special Conditions Campus Maps Workday FCS Customer Service Center Humphreys Service Building Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-5322 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.