Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Facilities and Campus Services Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home About Us Announcements Capital Projects Diversity Getting to Humphreys Service Building Facilities and Campus Services Values FCS Org Chart Leadership Master Planning Rewards and Recognition Service Level Agreements Services Building Information and Documents COVID Information Event Support Mail Parking and Transportation Repair and Maintenance Projects Start a Project Project Management Checklists Project Management Guidance Documents View All Project Resources... Bidding Process Contractors and Consultants Design Standards & Details Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Shutdowns Green Building (LEED) Support Mapping Project Approval Requests (PARs) Schedule a Utility Shutdown Utility Locating Departments Contract Colleges Facilities Cornell University Police Department Energy and Sustainability Facilities Management Finance & Administration Engineering and Project Management Human Resources for FCS Office of the University Architect Transportation and Delivery Services For Contractors For FCS Employees Contact FCS Getting Around Accessible Transportation Options Bus Services Carpooling Commuter Support Services Cycling Cycling Safely Daily Decision Parking Option RideShare Travel Resources Breadcrumb Departments Transportation and Delivery Services Parking Cycling Cycling on Campus Biking at Cornell Cycling is an excellent way to get to and around campus, and navigating Ithaca’s hills is easy with TCAT’s free bike rack program. Getting Started: Cornell has a campus policy that prohibits bicycling, Segway use, and in-line skating on campus sidewalks and pathways unless it is a marked, shared path. As a rule, if it's not a roadway and it isn't marked with yellow paint, it's a dismount zone. White markings are exclusive bike lanes. Cyclists have the same rights and responsibilities as motorists. In most cases, bike lanes and bike routes on roadways, driveways, and parking lots will take you to your destination. Yellow markings denote shared walks. Cyclists and skaters may ride on these paths, but must yield to pedestrians. Red or no markings are dismount zones. Cyclists and skaters must either dismount and walk or circumvent the area using bike lanes (cyclists only), bike routes (cyclists only), and shared walks. Note on Electric Scooters and Dockless Bikeshare Users of Ithaca’s community bike share program must note that electric scooter use is prohibited on the Cornell campus. Furthermore, Cornell requires that all bikes, including community bike share Limes, be parked at a bike rack. Ecology Alert Portions of the Cornell Botanic Gardens, the City's Six Mile Gorge, and other public lands have been posted off limits to bicycles. Please abide by these restrictions and use common sense whenever you bicycle. Misuse of bicycles can cause environmental damage in some fragile, natural areas. Requirements: Follow safe cycling guidelines. Obey all path and pavement markings. Always yield to pedestrians in crosswalks. Register your bicycle. There is no charge for registration. Bicycles must be parked at bike racks or in bike storage areas. Never leave or park your bike or other wheeled vehicle in Life Safety Zones such as fire hydrants, fire lanes, or other emergency zones, or in any service drive, building entrance, walkway ramp, or any other passageway to which emergency equipment, wheelchairs, pedestrians, or service equipment may need access. Bicycles may be parked inside a building only with the written permission of the building coordinator or director. Remember: avoid hallways, stairwells, and any place where they may constitute a safety hazard. Any bicycle parked in violation of these regulations or in a manner such as to constitute a safety hazard may be impounded. Contact Us Transportation Services 116 Maple Avenue Ithaca NY 14850-4902 transportation@cornell.edu t: 607-255-4600 f: 607-255-0257 Hours of Operation 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., M-F Tools TCAT Cycling Safely Rules and Regulations NYS Rules See Also Contact FCS Org Chart FCS Leadership Careers Cornell Quick Links Cornell Home Page CUInfo Special Conditions Campus Maps Workday FCS Customer Service Center Humphreys Service Building Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-5322 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.