Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Facilities and Campus Services Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home About Us Announcements Capital Projects Diversity Getting to Humphreys Service Building Facilities and Campus Services Values FCS Org Chart Leadership Master Planning Rewards and Recognition Service Level Agreements Services Building Information and Documents COVID Information Event Support Mail Parking and Transportation Repair and Maintenance Projects Start a Project Project Management Checklists Project Management Guidance Documents View All Project Resources... Bidding Process Contractors and Consultants Design Standards & Details Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Shutdowns Green Building (LEED) Support Mapping Project Approval Requests (PARs) Schedule a Utility Shutdown Utility Locating Departments Contract Colleges Facilities Cornell University Police Department Energy and Sustainability Facilities Management Finance & Administration Engineering and Project Management Human Resources for FCS Office of the University Architect Transportation and Delivery Services For Contractors For FCS Employees Contact FCS Parking Getting Around 2022 Campus Parking Changes Annual Permit Renewal for Employees Conference and Event Parking Department-Owned Vehicle Parking Electric and Green Vehicle Parking Expectant and Nursing Mothers Motorcycle, Motorscooter, and Mopeds Night/Weekend Parking Restrictions Parking Options for Cornell Retirees Parking for Students Student Permit Privileges Student Purchase Contract Parking for University Employees Paying and Appealing Citations Short-Term Parking Options Winter and Break Parking Breadcrumb Departments Transportation and Delivery Services Parking Parking for Students Parking for Students Announcements 2022 Parking Changes Transportation Services Announces Changes Beginning in July Transportation Services is revising its parking and commuting offerings to realign parking demand, introduce new technology, and provide equitable, easy-to-use, self-service solutions designed to meet the needs of all community members. Please note: Parking availability is reduced due to the North Campus Residential Expansion and permits are sold to eligible residents on a first-come, first-served, space-available basis. Students are encouraged to leave vehicles home. All community members should examine their transportation options, especially if they require only limited, occasional access to campus. Daily Decision Parking Low-cost Parking Options Using ParkMobile The Daily Decision program gives commuters access to low-cost, short-term options to meet their occasional parking needs. Using the ParkMobile app, this program provides community members greater flexibility than a traditional annual or semester permit, coupled with the convenience of contactless self-service. Visit the Daily Decision page to learn more about parking options, prices, and locations, and visit ParkMobile.io to download the app, create an account, and park. Parking Compliance Permit and Payment Requirements Enforced Community members are encouraged to visit myparking.cornell.edu to check their permit and vehicle information before parking, as restrictions and Night/Weekend Parking Rules are enforced throughout campus. Community members should also be prepared for upcoming event impacts on traffic and parking. Fine-due citations are issued in response to permit and payment requirement violations. Student Parking Options Parking on campus is restricted to permit or payment at all times unless posted otherwise. Parking requirements and times of enforcement are posted at the entrance of each lot; please read all signs carefully before parking. Because campus parking is limited and can be expensive, most students walk, bike, or ride the TCAT bus. New-to-Cornell students automatically receive free unlimited TCAT bus privileges in their first year, and find having a car on campus is more of a hassle than it’s worth. Read details about bus transportation, bicycling, and other options: gettingaround.cornell.edu Getting Started Vehicle Registration Students who bring personal cars, motorcycles, or motorscooters to the campus must register their license plate with Transportation Services, whether or not they buy a parking permit. Vehicle information must be kept current. Register a license plate and update vehicle information. Daily Decision Parking Options Many community members who have only occasional parking needs or who are located on the periphery of the campus choose Daily Decision parking using ParkMobile. These deeply discounted mobile payment lots are convenient to TCAT transit routes and, in some zones, can be paid for multiple days. Permit Sales and Delivery Student permits are available for sale beginning in August of each year at myparking.cornell.edu; permits are valid until August 31 of the following academic year. All student permits are sold online and mailed by our vendor to the address designated during the checkout process. Commuting students must review and update their Student Local mailing address, and have their name clearly labeled on or inside their apartment mailbox to ensure timely delivery. Please carefully review address information for accuracy to ensure timely delivery. Student Permit Options and Eligibility Guidelines Commuter Permits: LIMITED AVAILABILITY – must meet commuter eligibility requirements or the permit will be recalled. B Commuter Permit – 2022 Annual Rate: $359.85 The B permit is valid at all times in the B Lot near the Vet College; valid in the north campus A Lot after 2:30 pm. Permit prices prorate on a daily basis beginning September 1. The current price will display at the time of purchase. On-Campus Resident Permits: LIMITED AVAILABILITY – must meet resident eligibility requirements or the permit will be recalled. Students living in university housing can purchase a parking permit for their residence area. Resident permits are valid only in their signed parking area and the North Campus A lot after 2:30 pm. Resident Permits – 2022 Annual Rate: $752.86 FH – Hasbrouck Apartments Parking locations: Hasbrouck Apt. Receive OmniRide privileges. ND – North Campus Residence Halls, Program Houses, and Cooperative Housing; 411 & 508 Thurston Ave.** Parking locations: Outer Circle of Hasbrouck Apartments; Program House Drive; Anna Comstock; Hurlburt House; Thurston Court. SW* – Cascadilla Hall; Sheldon Court; Eddygate;109 Sage Place; Schuyler House. Parking locations: Stewart & Williams St; Schuyler House. WD – West Campus House System, Program Houses, and Cooperative Housing; 112 Edgemoor Lane. Parking locations: Edgemoor Lane; University Ave Lot. Permit prices prorate on a daily basis beginning September 1. The current price will display at the time of purchase. Motorcycles M Permit Sticker – 2022 Annual Rate $119.94; valid in spaces signed for motorcycle (M Permit) parking. May display student permit and park in vehicle spaces. The permit price prorates on a monthly basis. The current price will display at the time of purchase. There are no refunds or exchanges for returned M permits. Sharing Commuter Permits (Carpool) Commuters can share the cost of a parking permit. One person purchases and is responsible for the permit, which can then be switched among vehicles registered with Transportation Services. Please note that while commuting students can share the permit with their peers, permit ownership is not transferable. Permit Refund Policy A pre-paid, annual permit is eligible for a refund if it is returned by March 31. There are no refunds on M permits. There are no refunds on annual permits after March 31. There are no refunds on temporary permits. There are no cash refunds. Refunds are based on a prorated schedule. Refund amounts are determined on the day the permit is returned. If a permit was charged, the account charged will be credited for any refund due. Refunds on permits that were paid for by check or cash will be processed through Cornell University Accounting, and a check will be mailed. This process takes approximately two weeks. Requirements Permits are sold on a first-come, first-served, and space-available basis. The rate is set as of July 1; permits prorate beginning September 1. Annual permits are valid through August 31. Permit ownership is not transferrable. The vehicle on which the permit is displayed must be registered with the university. No refunds on permits after March 31. *SW permits may be made available to commuting students for a limited time at the beginning of each semester. Once the sales cap is reached, permit sales are restricted to residents only. **Extremely limited due to North Campus Residential Expansion Project. Permit sales are capped at 100 annually. Limited to North Campus residents of university-owned housing. Contact Us Transportation and Mail Services 116 Maple Avenue Ithaca NY 14850-4902 transportation@cornell.edu t: 607-255-4600 f: 607-255-0257 Hours of Operation 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., M-F Tools Student Contract 2022 Student Parking Map Student Permit Privileges Manage Parking Account TCAT Public Transit Ithaca Carshare Finger Lakes Rideshare See Also Contact FCS Org Chart FCS Leadership Careers Cornell Quick Links Cornell Home Page CUInfo Special Conditions Campus Maps Workday FCS Customer Service Center Humphreys Service Building Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-5322 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.