Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Facilities and Campus Services Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home About Us Announcements Capital Projects Diversity Getting to Humphreys Service Building Facilities and Campus Services Values FCS Org Chart Leadership Master Planning Rewards and Recognition Service Level Agreements Services Building Information and Documents COVID Information Event Support Mail Parking and Transportation Repair and Maintenance Projects Start a Project Project Management Checklists Project Management Guidance Documents View All Project Resources... Bidding Process Contractors and Consultants Design Standards & Details Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Shutdowns Green Building (LEED) Support Mapping Project Approval Requests (PARs) Schedule a Utility Shutdown Utility Locating Departments Contract Colleges Facilities Cornell University Police Department Energy and Sustainability Facilities Management Finance & Administration Engineering and Project Management Human Resources for FCS Office of the University Architect Transportation and Delivery Services For Contractors For FCS Employees Contact FCS Getting Around Accessible Transportation Options Bus Services Student OmniRide Bus Pass Carpooling Commuter Support Services Cycling Daily Decision Parking Option RideShare Travel Resources Breadcrumb Departments Transportation and Delivery Services Parking Bus Services Bus Services, Privileges, Passes TCAT riders must wear masks or face coverings to board and ride the bus to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Visit TCAT for more information. Try Public Transit Convenient, efficient, and economical, transit is a perfect option for making the most of your precious time. TCAT serves all of Tompkins County, including Cornell and the City of Ithaca. Call TCAT at 277-RIDE (Monday – Friday, 7:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m.) or visit their website for route, fare, schedule, and park-and-ride lot locations. TCAT Tcard bus passes are sold for various ride-denominations and are available at the Cornell Store. Getting Started Employees and students can access their bus riding privileges with their CU photo ID card on TCAT buses. Every time you board a TCAT bus with your CU ID card, touch the card to the prox chip reader on the farebox. If that doesn’t work, swipe your card in the magstripe reader (mag stripe down, facing either way). It does not matter which method you use. Try to keep credit cards and cards containing a prox chip separate from your CU ID, and away from the farebox. Employee Unlimited Ride CU ID Card Privileges Employees (including temporary employees and affiliates) and retirees can use their CU photo ID card at the farebox when boarding TCAT buses to ride anywhere TCAT goes, any time TCAT runs—Cornell pays the fare (normally $1.50). This unlimited ride privilege allows employees more flexibility in planning their commute and can help reduce the number of vehicles on campus. Faculty/staff spouse/partners with a CU ID card receive unlimited rides on TCAT night routes 90, 92, and 93. Student CU ID Card Privileges All registered students enrolled in a degree program receive free, unlimited rides on all TCAT buses after 6 p.m. weekdays, and anytime Saturday and Sunday. New-to-Cornell students automatically receive OmniRide privileges for unlimited TCAT privileges in their first year as a matriculated student in a degree program. Privileges expire annually on August 31 for Fall entrants and December 31 for Spring entrants. Students not New-to-Cornell can purchase OmniRide privileges at myparking.cornell.edu. Passes expire annually on August 31. Continuing education students and student spouse/partners with a CU ID card receive unlimited rides on TCAT night routes 90, 92, and 93. Regional Public Transit Chemung County Transit serves Elmira, Horseheads, and Ithaca. Cortland Public Transit serves the Cortland area, with service to Cornell, TC3, and Dryden. Riders can pay-as-they-go, and eligible employees can join Cornell's OmniRide commuter program to receive a discounted annual pass. Requirements Bus access using the CU ID card, including night/weekend and OmniRide, is paid for by Cornell University and is non-transferable. The CU photo ID card is the fare medium and must be presented at the farebox—and read electronically—in order to ride at no cost. Transit riders should be prepared to use cash in the event their CU ID card is not accepted at the TCAT fare box. If your card isn’t accepted because you are outside the boundaries or riding at a time when your card isn’t valid, the driver will inform you that you need to pay ($1.50). If your CU ID is bent or damaged it may not read properly. You will have to replace your card to access rider privileges in the future. If you are unsure why your CU photo ID card isn’t working properly, contact our office at 607-255-4600. Report lost or stolen cards to the University Registrar at 607-255-4232. Replacement cards are available from their office; a fee may be charged. The CU photo ID card is the property of the university and cannot be shared with another person for any reason. Contact Us Transportation Services 116 Maple Avenue Ithaca NY 14850-4902 transportation@cornell.edu t: 607-255-4600 f: 607-255-0257 Hours of Operation 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., M-F Tools Student OmniRide Bus Pass Employee OmniRide Program Park and Ride Locations Way2Go See Also Contact FCS Org Chart FCS Leadership Careers Cornell Quick Links Cornell Home Page CUInfo Special Conditions Campus Maps Workday FCS Customer Service Center Humphreys Service Building Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-5322 If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.