Feed the Pack MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Home About Us Leadership Data Information History Pantry Protocol Resources Budget Partnerships Support Feed the Pack Advocacy Food Drives Monetary Donations Perishable / Non-Perishable Donations Volunteering The mission of the Feed the Pack Food Pantry at NC State is to help meet the food needs of all members of the NC State community with dignity and respect.GO PACK! More About Us Feed the Pack is the food pantry on NC State’s campus. Feed the Pack is student-led and open to all members of the campus community (students, staff, and faculty.) Other great food, transportation, professional, and other resources not directly tied to Feed the Pack can be found HERE. In order to use the pantry, you can show up during our open hours. You will be asked to swipe your campus ID and then can shop for the items you need. Be sure to check out Pack Essentials for a list of other Basic Needs Resources. Newsletter Signup Link Follow Us on Instagram Subscribe to Youtube Receive Pantry Updates Monetary Donations FAQS Follow Us on Facebook Patron Intake form Hours of Operation and Drop-Off Donations 2221 Dunn Avenue Monday: CLOSED Tuesday: 12-6 p.m. Wednesday 12-6 p.m. Thursday: CLOSED Friday: 12-4 p.m. Saturday: CLOSED Sunday: CLOSED Contact Us General inquiries: feedthepackpantry@ncsu.edu Volunteer information: feedthepackvolunteer@ncsu.edu Campus events/food drives: feedthepackoutreach@ncsu.edu Most Needed Items » Beans (Cannelinni, Navy, Refried, Blackeye Peas, Chili, Garbanzo, and Lima) » Turnip Greens, Pineapple, Diced Tomatoes, Mixed Veggies, and Collard Greens » Pineapple, Peaches, Mandarin Oranges, Fruit Cocktail, and Pears » Spiced Pasta Sauce » Beef/Chicken Broth » Canned Tuna and Chicken » Vegetarian Vegetable Soup » Gluten-Free and Regular Pasta » Dry Lentils, Quinoa, and Rice » Flour and Corn Flour/Meal » Boxed Prepared Potatoes and Rice » Hamburger Helper » Almond Butter » Jelly/Jam » All Snack Items » Olive and Vegetable Oil » Spices » All Coffee and Tea Products » Shelf stable milk » Juice » All hygiene and period products Feed the Pack does not currently need these items: » Beans (Baked, Pork and Beans, Pinto, Great Northern, and Black) » Green Beans, Yams, Pickles, Corn, Sweet Peas, and Carrots » "Cream of" and Chicken Noodle Soup » Gravy » Spaghetti-O's and Beef Ravioli » Tomato Sauce » Potato Starch and Buttermilk Flour » Mac & Cheese » Ramen (all flavors) » Sunflower Butter » Applesauce » Instant Oatmeal » Condiments and Salad Dressing Individual Packets » Soda and Water Bottles » Hand Sanitizer » Deodorant Location Honors & Scholars Commons 2221 Dunn Avenue NC State University Raleigh, NC 27607 Meta Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org Feed the Pack Honors and Scholars Village Commons 2221 Dunn Ave Raleigh, NC 27695 feedthepackpantry@ncsu.edu Email Accessibility Complaints & Compliments Website Feedback Search for: © 2022 Feed the Pack | Log in