/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Program Courses Courses For Distribution Requirements Current Graduate Students Faculty Faculty Books Community Engagement Anti-Detention Alliance Afro-Asian Working Group Dark Laboratory About Us Resources Administration & Staff Contacts Student Showcase Support FGSS The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies offers students the opportunity to study a wide range of fields from the perspectives of feminist and LGBT critical analysis, in a global context and with the purpose of promoting social justice. FGSS Events Jun 03 “Radical Desire: The Models of On Our Backs: The Pioneers of Lesbian Erotic Visibility,” gallery talk with Susie Bright Rare and Manuscript Collections, Carl A. Kroch Library See all events Explore the Program Graduate studies Undergraduate studies Faculty profiles Courses FGSS News PMA and FGSS congratulates Caitlin Kane, on her acceptance into a tenure-track position at Kent State University The Department of Performing and Media Arts congratulates Caitlin Kane on her acceptance into a tenure-track position as an Assistant Professor at Kent State University within the School of Theatre and Dance. Caitlin has received her PhD with PMA at Cornell University and has been a part of notable ... Read More Pursuit: Salon On 5/27 and 5/28, FGSS alum Kristen Wright's one act play A PURSUIT will be performed in person at The Cherry Arts in Ithaca at 7:30pm on both nights. If you will be in the Ithaca area at that time, please come out! Read More Einaudi awards fund global research and activities Seed grants. student travel grants and internships totaling $355,000 in the 2021-22 academic year supported international work done by many A&S faculty and students. Read More New faculty spotlight: Jess Marie Newman Meet new FGSS Visiting Assistant Professor, Jess Marie Newman, who will be starting in fall 2022. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects Cornell faculty and their community partners will tell the stories of local migrant farmworkers, use documentary film to better understand climate change and dispossession, learn how migratory birds are affected by drug trafficking and more. Read More 'The College Scholar program helped me dig deeper into fields I am really passionate about' Anuli Ononye majored in Feminist Gender & Sexuality Studies, Government, and College Scholar. Read More 'I yearned for a knowledge that extended beyond my familiarity' Andy Maghacot is majoring in Feminist, Gender, & Sexuality Studies and Literatures in English. Read More Read more FGSS news FGSS 50th anniversary We are excited to be celebrating in this coming academic year our 50th anniversary as a program, with the theme “Trans*forming the Future.” Celebrate and learn more about our 50th 180 Rockefeller Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies 607-255-6480 Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top