Jump to navigation About Our House Paper Doctor The Fisher Hassenfeld Way! Signature Programs Program Communities Media and Communications Music and Social Change Policy, Politics, and Social Change Scientific Adventures First Generation, First Step People Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Services & Operations House Office Info Center Common Rooms Computer Lab Room Reservations Policies & Information Policies Mail & Packages Room Assignments Getting Help Facility Problems Laundry Issues Computing Assistance Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page About The Photo Fisher Hassenfeld residents really enjoy their outdoor space and participate in everything from movie screenings to square dancing to decorating for the holidays. S'mores 'n More, shown here, is one of our favorite fall traditions. The Bluestone Courtyard in Goldberg House at the westernmost tip (consisting of Foerderer, McKean, Baldwin, Class of '87 and Craig halls) offers a great hardscape with outdoor furniture for studying outdoors and barbecuing. Photograph by Shawna Patterson. About The Photo This photo is a beautiful capture of middle quad area of Fisher Hassenfeld Welcome to Penn and your new home in Fisher Hassenfeld College House CLASS of 2024!! As one of the first residential buildings on Penn’s West Philadelphia campus, Fisher Hassenfeld College House has a long history of being a center of the student community. Our small halls facilitate students getting to know each and establishing life long friendships; our great outdoor space provide opportunities to relax, play and study. Our residential faculty and staff offer a great range of resources and programs to help you meet other students, make new friends and expand your horizons. From study breaks to ‘Paper Doctor’ sessions, Affinity Spaces, pancake and hall dinners, reading day massages, career and academic counseling, quad–wide weekly “Dinner With Interesting People”, Dinner For Ten, Talk to Me Tuesdays, informal discussions and residential living programs, we strive to create an engaging, comfortable, intellectually exciting and socially enjoyable community and home where we interact with and learn from one another and the greater Penn and Philadelphia communities. We are an innovative college house that uses student ideas to develop new activities, media facilities, music rooms, movie nights, seasonal BBQ, Sunday brunches, major dinners, community service projects, Linvilla Trips, holiday celebrations, late night cafe and more. FH sponsors activities ranging from informal discussions with faculty and national leaders, community service programs, in house courses, informal house events and social, sporting and cultural programs throughout Philadelphia. So check the weekly "FH Chronicles" email newsletter and the bathroom edition - FH Chronicle to keep abreast of House activities. Look out Soon for our First Newsletter of the year!! We look forward to meeting and getting to know you and to you becoming an active member of the Fisher Hassenfeld family. Dr. Betsy Rymes, Faculty Director Ebonish Lamar, House Dean About Our House Paper Doctor The Fisher Hassenfeld Way! Signature Programs Program Communities Media and Communications Music and Social Change Policy, Politics, and Social Change Scientific Adventures First Generation, First Step People Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Services & Operations House Office Info Center Common Rooms Computer Lab Room Reservations Policies & Information Policies Mail & Packages Room Assignments Getting Help Facility Problems Laundry Issues Computing Assistance Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Fisher Hassenfeld College House Office Phone (215) 573-4295 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact fh@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Monday-Friday, 9:30AM-4:30PM House Address 3700 Spruce Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help