Skip to main content Menu John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute Events News Opportunities People Search form Search Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Subscribe to our Newsletter Main menu Home About John Hope Franklin Advisory Board Annual Reports 2019-20 2020-21 Space Reservations Upcoming Events News Opportunities People Find Us Labs Amazon Lab From Slavery to Freedom Lab Manuscript Migration Lab PhD Lab in Digital Knowledge Social Practice Lab Previous Labs Audiovisualities Lab Borderwork(s) Lab Global Brazil Lab Greater Than Games Lab Haiti Lab Health Humanities Lab Social Movements Lab Story Lab Research Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops Working Groups Faculty-led Carceral Imaginary Minor Aesthetics Reckoning and Justice: Historical Memory, the Arts, and Commemoration Postdoc-led Antigone Embodied Pedagogies Emotion and Affect in the Digital Space Graduate-led Challenging Borders: Representations of the Global South Latin America: Present Tense Unearthing Duke Forest Global Collaboration Seed Grants Major Grants The Civil Rights Movement: Grassroots Perspectives Virtual and Augmented Reality for the Digital Humanities Institute Humanities Futures (2014-2018) Education Story+ Human Rights Certificate PhD in Computational Media, Arts & Cultures Bass Connections (FHI-affiliated) Engagement Signature Events Faculty Bookwatch In the Press John Hope Franklin Legacies Series Theme Series Monument Water World Arts tgiFHI Meet Your Humanities Faculty Left of Black Pauli Murray Project Practitioner in Residence Centers & Initiatives Duke Human Rights Center Pauli Murray Project Center for Philosophy, Arts, and Literature Digital Humanities Initiative Duke-NCCU Digital Humanities Fellowships PhD Lab in Digital Knowledge Virtual and Augmented Reality for the Digital Humanities Institute Special Events Digital and Public Durham History DHI Week (2019) Publishing Humanities Initiative Affiliates Global Partners Academy of Global Humanities and Critical Theory Duke Kunshan University Humanities Research Center Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research (WiSER) Previous Affiliates HASTAC (Humanities, Arts, Sciences, Technology Alliance and Collaboratory) Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes (CHCI) SIGN UP BY 5/12! The FHI is hosting the 2022 Annual Meeting of the... SIGN UP BY 5/12! The FHI is hosting the 2022 Annual Meeting of the Consortium of Humanities Centers and... SIGN UP BY 5/12! The FHI is hosting the 2022 Annual Meeting of the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes! Duke faculty, students, and staff are welcome to register for... SIGN UP BY 5/12! The FHI is hosting the 2022 Annual Meeting of the Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes! Duke faculty, students, and staff are welcome to register for the conference's opening night poetry reading and keynote lectures. Our 2020-21 Annual Report is now available online! Learn more about... Our 2020-21 Annual Report is now available online! Learn more about our Humanities Labs and our programs... Our 2020-21 Annual Report is now available online! Learn more about our Humanities Labs and our programs in research, education, public engagement, and more! Our 2020-21 Annual Report is now available online! Learn more about our Humanities Labs and our programs in research, education, public engagement, and more! The FHI Amazon Lab supports a set of projects that foreground the... The FHI Amazon Lab supports a set of projects that foreground the region’s remarkable heterogeneity.... The FHI Amazon Lab supports a set of projects that foreground the region’s remarkable heterogeneity. Learn more... The FHI Amazon Lab supports a set of projects that foreground the region’s remarkable heterogeneity. Learn more... Une Conversation Avec... Une Conversation Avec Mohamed... Une Conversation Avec Mohamed Mbougar Sarr Mohamed Mbougar Sarr, recipient of the 2021 Prix Goncourt, discusses... Mohamed Mbougar Sarr, recipient of the 2021 Prix Goncourt, discusses his award-winning work, "La plus... Mohamed Mbougar Sarr, recipient of the 2021 Prix Goncourt, discusses his award-winning work, "La plus secrète mémoire des hommes," or "The Most Secret Memory of Men," co-published... Mohamed Mbougar Sarr, recipient of the 2021 Prix Goncourt, discusses his award-winning work, "La plus secrète mémoire des hommes," or "The Most Secret Memory of Men," co-published by Philippe Rey and Jimsaan. Meet Your Humanities Faculty Meet Your Humanities Faculty Meet Your Humanities Faculty This interview series gives you insight into ongoing humanities... This interview series gives you insight into ongoing humanities research at Duke University. This interview series gives you insight into ongoing humanities research at Duke University. This interview series gives you insight into ongoing humanities research at Duke University. The FHI Manuscript Migration Lab takes on the “cloaking mechanisms”... The FHI Manuscript Migration Lab takes on the “cloaking mechanisms” that have obscured the provenance... The FHI Manuscript Migration Lab takes on the “cloaking mechanisms” that have obscured the provenance history of many ancient manuscript collections in US institutions, including... The FHI Manuscript Migration Lab takes on the “cloaking mechanisms” that have obscured the provenance history of many ancient manuscript collections in US institutions, including: cycles of possession and dispossession wrought by imperialism, nation... Upcoming Events Wed 29 Jun Questionable Research Practices in Research Wednesday, June 29th 8:30 AM to 10:00 AM event details » Thu 08 Sep Global Jewish Modernism: Translation Series Welcomes Ann Goldstein Thursday, September 8th 6:00 PM to 7:30 PM TBD event details » Research Featured Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops provide a structure for generating constructive, informed criticism on near-final book manuscripts, at a moment in the writing process when authors can most... read more about Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops » News & Opportunities Digital Humanities Summer Research Grants Deadline: March 20, 2022 read more » about Digital Humanities Summer Research Grants CFP: Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops (Spring 2022) Deadline: February 8, 2022 read more » about CFP: Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops (Spring 2022) Bass Connections Invites Proposals for 2022-2023 Projects Deadline: November 1, 2021 read more » about Bass Connections Invites Proposals for 2022-2023 Projects Highlights Une Conversation Avec Mohamed Mbougar Sarr Une Conversation Avec Mohamed Mbougar Sarr Famed writer, Mohamed Mbougar Sarr, is the recipient of France's most... read more » about Une Conversation Avec Mohamed Mbougar Sarr Uncovering the Complicated Origins of Duke’s... Controversies over ancient texts are a hot issue, such as the recent case... read more » about Uncovering the Complicated Origins of Duke’s Manuscript Collections see all highlights » learn more about our research Education Featured Story+ Story+ is a 6-week paid summer research experience for Duke students—undergraduates and graduates—interested in exploring interdisciplinary arts and humanities research topics and methodologies. The... read more about Story+ » News & Opportunities PAID Summer Interdisciplinary 2022 Research Opportunity for... Deadline: February 20, 2022 read more » about PAID Summer Interdisciplinary 2022 Research Opportunity for Undergrads and Grads! Spots for Duke Ph.D. Students in Yale Summer Dissertation... Deadline: May 6, 2022 read more » about Spots for Duke Ph.D. Students in Yale Summer Dissertation Writing Groups Summer 2022 Provost Internships for PhD Students: 2 FHI... Deadline: March 20, 2022 read more » about Summer 2022 Provost Internships for PhD Students: 2 FHI Positions Highlights Insights from Virgil and the Non-Human World As director of the Duke Campus Farm, thinking about seeds and planting is... read more » about Insights from Virgil and the Non-Human World Both Together and Apart Story+, Team-Based Research Program, Thrives Online Amanda Starling... read more » about Both Together and Apart see all highlights » learn more about education at fhi Engagement Featured tgiFHI tgiFHI is a weekly series that gives Duke faculty in the humanities, interpretive social sciences and arts the opportunity to present their current research to their departmental and... read more about tgiFHI » News & Opportunities FHI to host 2022 Consortium of Humanities Centers and... read more » about FHI to host 2022 Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes Annual Meeting; Public Sessions open to Duke Community Job Opportunity: FHI Program Coordinator, Level 10 Exempt read more » about Job Opportunity: FHI Program Coordinator, Level 10 Exempt 2021-2022 tgiFHI Schedule read more » about 2021-2022 tgiFHI Schedule Highlights Meet Your Humanities Faculty: Erdağ Göknar In a legal context, such as the war crimes tribunal held to address the... read more » about Meet Your Humanities Faculty: Erdağ Göknar Meet Your Humanities Faculty: Anna Storti As our world becomes increasingly more mixed-race, how does this trend... read more » about Meet Your Humanities Faculty: Anna Storti see all highlights » learn more about engaging with fhi Publications of Interest Feeling Like Saints: Lollard Writings After Wyclif Fiona Somerset 2014 The Blood of Emmett Till Timothy B. Tyson 2017 Project Vox Andrew Janiak, with Liz Milewicz, et al 2015 Catholic Modern: The Challenge of Totalitarianism and the... James Chappel 2018 How We Think: Digital Media and Contemporary Technogenesis N. Katherine Hayles 2012 The Mafia: A Cultural History Roberto Dainotto 2015 The Drowned Muse: Casting the Unknown Woman of the Seine... Anne-Gaëlle Saliot 2015 Speaking of Duke: Leading the Twenty-First-Century... Richard H. Brodhead 2017 Going Global in Mughal India: A Digital Muraqqa Sumathi Ramaswamy 2014 Hydropolitics: The Itaipu Dam, Sovereignty, and the... Christine Folch 2019 Revolution of the Ordinary: Literary Studies after... Toril Moi 2017 Intimate Communities: Wartime Healthcare and the Birth of... Nicole Barnes 2018 Addressing the Other Woman: Textual Correspondences in... Kimberly Lamm 2018 The Banjo: America's African Instrument Laurent Dubois 2016 Chimeras of Form: Modernist Internationalism Beyond Europe... Aarthi Vadde 2016 Multitude: War and Democracy in the Age of Empire Michael Hardt & Antonio Negri 2005 Pop América, 1965–1975 Esther Gabara, Editor 2018 Space: A History Andrew Janiak, Editor 2020 The Company-State: Corporate Sovereignty and the Early... Philip J. Stern 2011 Scandalous Knowledge: Science, Truth, and the Human Barbara Herrnstein Smith 2006 Previous slide Next slide Videos Hope & Creativity in the Time of COVID | Triangle Book... Left of Black | Michael Eric Dyson on Performing Blackness... Story+ 2021 | Geer Cemetery: African American Labor,... Story+ 2021 | A Just and Equal Durham Audio Documentary... Story+ 2021 | Hardship and Resilience: Experiences of... Story+ 2021 | Mapping Roots with Migrant Roots Media Story+ 2021 | Public Art As Public Health: Moving Messages... Story+ 2021 | Camera Digita: Portraits of AI’s Role in the... Story+ 2021 | The Seat of Fascism: Narratives of Repression... Story+ 2021 | What This Land Has Seen: The Past and Future... Environmental Justice & Indigenous Rights | Andrew... Story+ Online | Humanities Research with Maddie Fowler Left of Black | Black Women Rock n' Roll Legends with... Frank Wilderson: The Politics of Pessimism in an Anti-Black... Fragile Democracy: The Struggle Over Race and Voting Rights... Left of Black | Lavelle Porter on The Blackademic Life Jessica Marie Johnson | Wicked Flesh: Black Women, Intimacy... Left of Black | Alisha Lola Jones on Gender Performances of... Left of Black | Keith Knight on Hulu's New Series: WOKE The Coronavirus: Human, Social, and Political Implications Left of Black | Derrick E. White and the Legacy of Black... Catherine Coleman Flowers Working with Duke University on... Black Images, Black Histories | Richard J. Powell: The... Black Images, Black Histories | Rhea Combs: New Black... Story+ | Harriet Tubman’s Life in Pictures Story+ | Beyond Despair: Narrating the Environment through... Imam Omar Suleiman: “Human Rights, Faith, and the Border... Sumathi Ramaswamy: "Terrestrial Lessons: Conquest of... The Business of Books: An Insider's Look at 21st... Tom Mayer | How to Write a Best Seller (or a Successful... Sharmila L. Murthy: Access to Safe Water & Sanitation... Previous slide Next slide JOHN HOPE FRANKLIN HUMANITIES INSTITUTE Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram 114 South Buchanan Boulevard Smith Warehouse, Bays 4 & 5 Campus Box 90403 Durham, NC 27708 Directions & Parking fhi@duke.edu RECENT TWEETS 5 days 1 hour ago RT @LeftOfBlack: Talking w/ @biancaphd & @blkmaterialist on how the modern-day university resembles the plantation system of old reg… https://t.co/zXQ6dVSeLO 1 week 3 days ago RT @CHCInetwork: Today marks the first day of the CHCI Annual Meeting — a huge thank you to the hosting staff of @fhi_duke! Our conf… https://t.co/QWlv5cUh86 1 week 3 days ago RT @JackieKercheval: Beautiful @fhi_duke documentary reminding us what a privilege it is to serve pts. Finding time to pause, be present… https://t.co/GCToMiS58u FHI ON INSTAGRAM © 2020 John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute at Duke University. All rights reserved. Shibboleth login NetID Login Search form Search Home About John Hope Franklin Advisory Board Annual Reports 2019-20 2020-21 Space Reservations Upcoming Events News Opportunities People Find Us Labs Amazon Lab From Slavery to Freedom Lab Manuscript Migration Lab PhD Lab in Digital Knowledge Social Practice Lab Previous Labs Audiovisualities Lab Borderwork(s) Lab Global Brazil Lab Greater Than Games Lab Haiti Lab Health Humanities Lab Social Movements Lab Story Lab Research Faculty Book Manuscript Workshops Working Groups Faculty-led Carceral Imaginary Minor Aesthetics Reckoning and Justice: Historical Memory, the Arts, and Commemoration Postdoc-led Antigone Embodied Pedagogies Emotion and Affect in the Digital Space Graduate-led Challenging Borders: Representations of the Global South Latin America: Present Tense Unearthing Duke Forest Global Collaboration Seed Grants Major Grants The Civil Rights Movement: Grassroots Perspectives Virtual and Augmented Reality for the Digital Humanities Institute Humanities Futures (2014-2018) Education Story+ Human Rights Certificate PhD in Computational Media, Arts & Cultures Bass Connections (FHI-affiliated) Engagement Signature Events Faculty Bookwatch In the Press John Hope Franklin Legacies Series Theme Series Monument Water World Arts tgiFHI Meet Your Humanities Faculty Left of Black Pauli Murray Project Practitioner in Residence Centers & Initiatives Duke Human Rights Center Pauli Murray Project Center for Philosophy, Arts, and Literature Digital Humanities Initiative Duke-NCCU Digital Humanities Fellowships PhD Lab in Digital Knowledge Virtual and Augmented Reality for the Digital Humanities Institute Special Events Digital and Public Durham History DHI Week (2019) Publishing Humanities Initiative Affiliates Global Partners Academy of Global Humanities and Critical Theory Duke Kunshan University Humanities Research Center Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research (WiSER) Previous Affiliates HASTAC (Humanities, Arts, Sciences, Technology Alliance and Collaboratory) Consortium of Humanities Centers and Institutes (CHCI) Events News Opportunities People Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Subscribe to our Newsletter