Skip to main content Navigation Admissions Curriculum Faculty Why FIEA? Industry Apply Now Tomorrow’s Developers Built at FIEA Today #1 Ranked, 3 years in a row! What Electronic Art is saying? Skip to Section About FIEA Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy (FIEA, pronounced F-eye-uh) is UCF’s nationally ranked Master of Science in Interactive Entertainment. Our 16-month master’s degree is offered full-time over 4 semesters and classes are held at our state-of-the-art facility at UCF Downtown, in the heart of downtown Orlando. Read More Since our creation in 2005, FIEA faculty have been students for careers in the game industry (in expertise areas that include art, tech art, programming, production, design, etc.) and our students have the opportunity to collaborate with classmates to learn the different functions of the game industry. FIEA is a place where productivity and ingenuity are applauded in equal measure. Being a part of FIEA means you’re motivated to make tomorrow’s great game or tell a story never told before. Explore the following pages to learn more and see for yourself why our program has been the world’s top-ranked graduate game design programs. Welcome to FIEA! #1 Ranked Graduate Game Development Program for 2022 by Princeton Review 3300 Sq. ft MOCAP Studio $ 73,000 Avg. starting salary of FIEA grad hires 300+ Number of companies that have hired our grads Watch a Virtual Tour of FIEA Which Specialization are you interested in? Production/Design Level Design Level design is where art, gameplay, and design all come together. As a level designer, students will build levels around mechanics and script their own encounters. In the later phases, students will set dress, polish, and optimize their levels to truly make them come to life. Students create levels ranging from first person shooters to Diablo-inspired maps. Production/Design Tech Design Technical Designers combine two pivotal skills: programming and game design. In the early Atari days the industry was dominated by solo developers responsible for all of the programming, design, and even artwork within their games. Tech Designers recapture that era of flexible talent by not only devising concepts, but also constructing them. Production/Design Project Management Project management is the art of organization and efficiency. Project management students learn the fundamental skills that allow them to use data and process in order to increase the team’s output without requiring them to work more hours. Through understanding leadership techniques, project managers elevate their teammates, making each member of the team better at their own job. Art Modeling 3D Modeling in its simplest terms is digital sculpting in the computer. All of the tools that students will use are derived from the real world and follow principals that have worked for sculpture for thousands of years. Pushing, pulling and smoothing a surface produces three dimensional forms that range from simple to highly complex. Art Tech Art Artists who create art “technically” and do whatever it takes to deliver the art. By harnessing the powers of the computer, technical artists leverage their skills and the skills of others to produce art beyond what they could have produced otherwise, such as through procedural generation and pipeline efficiency. Art Animation Animators in film or games need a thorough understanding of the principles of animation to be successful. The FIEA Animation track offers an intensive study of the 12 Principles of Animation developed by the Walt Disney Studios in the 1930’s, and how they apply to modern film and game animation. Students will learn all the most up-to-date standards/ techniques on animation in games and learn by doing. Programming Programming In FIEA’s video game programming curriculum you learn programming by writing lots of code. Develop strong C++ skills and learn how to debug, code in optimal game design patterns, and create cross-platform code that works on any game system. Which Specialization are you interested in? Level Design Production/Design Level design is where art, gameplay, and design all come together. As a level designer, students will build levels around mechanics and script their own encounters. In the later phases, students will set dress, polish, and optimize their levels to truly make them come to life. Students create levels ranging from first person shooters to Diablo-inspired maps. Tech Design Production/Design Technical Designers combine two pivotal skills: programming and game design. In the early Atari days the industry was dominated by solo developers responsible for all of the programming, design, and even artwork within their games. Tech Designers recapture that era of flexible talent by not only devising concepts, but also constructing them. Project Management Production/Design Project management is the art of organization and efficiency. Project management students learn the fundamental skills that allow them to use data and process in order to increase the team’s output without requiring them to work more hours. Through understanding leadership techniques, project managers elevate their teammates, making each member of the team better at their own job. Modeling Art 3D Modeling in its simplest terms is digital sculpting in the computer. All of the tools that students will use are derived from the real world and follow principals that have worked for sculpture for thousands of years. Pushing, pulling and smoothing a surface produces three dimensional forms that range from simple to highly complex. Tech Art Art Artists who create art “technically” and do whatever it takes to deliver the art. By harnessing the powers of the computer, technical artists leverage their skills and the skills of others to produce art beyond what they could have produced otherwise, such as through procedural generation and pipeline efficiency. Animation Art Animators in film or games need a thorough understanding of the principles of animation to be successful. The FIEA Animation track offers an intensive study of the 12 Principles of Animation developed by the Walt Disney Studios in the 1930’s, and how they apply to modern film and game animation. Students will learn all the most up-to-date standards/ techniques on animation in games and learn by doing. Programming Programming In FIEA’s video game programming curriculum you learn programming by writing lots of code. Develop strong C++ skills and learn how to debug, code in optimal game design patterns, and create cross-platform code that works on any game system. Capstone Publish your own game with a team of 15-20 other students Here at FIEA, our capstone is the creation of a full game over multiple semesters, where you will go through the entire development cycle: preproduction, production, alpha, beta. Many students decide to publish their capstone games through various avenues, such as Steam or Xbox, earning their first published title. Explore Further Learn more about the Capstone process Industry Partnerships Alumni Jobs Job Resources “FIEA is a major source of talent for our EA SPORTS development studio in Orlando, resulting in 1 out of every 2 new graduates hired over the past 2 years” Daryl Holt, Electronic Arts (EA) Vice President Studio 500 Launched in 2008, Studio 500 is the stage production facility of UCF Downtown. It boasts a 3,300 square foot motion capture stage, one of the largest on the East Coast, and a 3,500 square foot soundstage. This world-class facility provides motion capture and video data for FIEA capstone games, student films, UCF research projects, and select commercial clients. Read More In The News Check out UCF news More FIEA News UCF Threepeats as World’s Best Graduate Game Design Program The Princeton Review and PC Gamer magazine have ranked UCF’s undergraduate and graduate programs among the best in the nation for the third straight year. Read More Upcoming Events Up Next View More Events Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram FIEA News Contact Us Privacy Policy Policies Public Records Regulations 500 West Livingston Street, Orlando, FL 32801-1416 | Parking Info | 407.235.3580 © University of Central Florida University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida