Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major The Modified Major Honors Program The Minor Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Share FILM 80 Independent Study COURSE DESCRIPTION This course is designed to enable qualified upperclass students to engage in independent study in film and media studies under the direction of a member of the Department. A student should consult with the faculty member with whom they wish to work as far in advance as possible. A faculty advisor must be identified. A proposal signed by the student and the faculty advisor needs to be emailed to the Dept. Chair (cc Dept. Administrator). Permission of instructor is required to register for this course, the Dept. Chair grants permission. One credit is granted for successful performance in this course. Students could request to complete a FILM 80 associated with an internship with the approval of the Chair and receive one credit for it, but this can not be done with paid or funded internships. PROPOSAL and DEADLINES A proposal of the Independent Study should be emailed to the Dept. Chair (cc Dept. Administrator) using this template. The Proposal should be emailed before or during the first week of course election period of the term when the FILM 80 is to be pursued and not later than the end of that term course change election period (see the Office of the Registrar's Term Calendars for specific dates). Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback