Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Alumni Student Resources Share Student Resources THE DIGITAL LAB The Digital Lab located in room 109 on the first floor Dartmouth College's Black Family Visual Arts Center is a space in which students can create amazing digital art using state-of-the-art computer programs. Technical Documents Access our collection of Tech Docs created to help perform various tasks relevant to our courses Festivals, Grants, Internships Festivals Grants Internships & Fellowships Festivals screen_shot_2021-08-05_at_2.56.59_pm.png Experiments in Cinema v17.2 call for submissions!! Basement Films' annual international film festival is proud to announce our call for submissions for Experiments in Cinema v17.2 (April 19-23 with an additional online version May 9-16).Our call for submissions is open from August 1 – November 1, 2021 so don't wait! See www.experimentsincinema.org for our online submissions form or use the form on Film Freeway.For additional information contact festival director Bryan Konefsky at experimentsincinema@gmail.com or print traffic controller Nicole Delmar at experimentsincinemasubmissions@gmail.comWe are seeking new and old moving image art that will engage audiences with the magic and wonder that IS un-dependent cinema! Submissions might be (but are not limited to) essay films, dance films, film poems, structural films, post-structural films, post-post structural films, underground films, abstract films, experimental narratives, experimental documentaries, video installations, transgressive films, portrait films, political rant films… Challenge us and make us happy .If your creative output requires fancy press packages, agents to be contacted, a world premiere, descriptions like "…think The Little Mermaid on steroids…," or character development that can only be understood in terms of a traditional narrative arc, you might do well to find a different festival to screen your film.Please note that for the third year Experiments in Cinema WILL be paying screening fees to all participating artists!Experiments in Cinema v17.2 Bryan Konefsky Founder/Director, Experiments in Cinema el presidente, Basement Films experimentsincinema@gmail.com jmc_48_hr_video_logo.png The Jones Media Center and Film and Media Studies department (JAMS for short!) will be hosting the Fourth Annual 48 Hour Video Contest starting Friday, July 30! Sign up as a team or sign up solo. At least one person from your team must be Dartmouth student, faculty or staff. A mandatory in-person kick off meeting will take place in the Jones Media Center (second floor of Baker-Berry Library) at 4:00 pm on Friday, July 30. There you will receive a line of dialogue and an object that must appear in the video. All participants (teams or individual) will have free access to all of our equipment! DSLR cameras, GoPros, Vixias, tripods, light kits, Zoom audio recorders, lavalier microphones, portable green screens and more! Registering early will give you first dibs on our equipment. Check out our Equipment Loan page to plan ahead what you would like to reserve (Some limitations apply). You will have until 5:00 pm on Sunday, August 1 to complete your video. For Rules and Regulations visit the JMC 48 Hour Video Contest page. Join us for food and screening of the videos at 7:00 pm! Location TBD. Cash prizes will be awarded at the end. If you have questions contact Susan Simon. Registration is required. There are 50 seats available. JMC 48 Hour Video Contest annarbor_film_fest_logo.png CALL FOR ENTRIES | aaff Call for entries for the 60th AAFF. Open July 1 - September 30, 2021. The Ann Arbor Film Festival is open to experimental films as well as films that demonstrate a high regard for the moving image as an experimental art form, no matter the genre. Each year the AAFF selects 100-145 shorts and features for exhibition in the awards competition portion of the festival. Call for Submissions Squeaky Wheel's 18th Animation Fest! Deadline to submit: July 23, 2021Squeaky Wheel invites you to submit short films to our annual Animation Fest! Now in its 18th year, we are proud to continue a festival showcasing artworks made in a diverse variety of animation techniques such as stop-motion, claymation, 3D animation, hand-painted film, special effects, and motion graphics. This year's edition welcomes back Tabia Lewis as the guest curator of the festival and will take place with an in person outdoor screening at the Albright Knox at Northland and a virtual screening accessible to audiences worldwide.All selected artists will receive a screening fee of $75 per selected film. African/Black, Indigenous / Native / Aboriginal, POC, disabled people, women, 2SLGBTQIA+, and other filmmakers who face systemic and structural barriers are highly encouraged to apply. See more information and apply here. MEDIA CITY FILM FESTIVAL'S 2021 CALL FOR ENTRIES IS NOW OPEN ★ Absolutely no entry fees. FREE! ★ Fees paid to all selected artists DEADLINE: August 16, 2021 Apply online. Open to all: https://mediacityfilmfestival.com/entries/ Media City Film Festival MediaCityFest Media City Film Festival is an annual international festival of film and digital art, presented in Windsor, Ontario and Detroit, Michigan since 1994. It is the only organization in the world to regularly present artists' film on both sides of an international border. (168 kB) https://mediacityfilmfestival.com/entries/ Media City Film Festival is an annual international festival of film and digital art, presented in Windsor, Ontario and Detroit, Michigan since 1994. It is the only organization in the world to regularly present artists' film on both sides of an international border. (168 kB) OPEN CALL FOR ENTRIES AND FOR VOLUNTEERS for the 25th VIDEOMEDEJA image_from_ios_2.jpg International Video Festival VIDEOMEDEJA is basic activity of the Video Art Association VIDEOMEDEJA. This is an annual non-profit event lasting for a few days. Festival consists of the competitive program and various accompanying programs which, depending on the current productions and conception, happens on the different locations in Novi Sad.The Call for Entries is open from April 1st, and will run until June 15th, 2021, and volunteer registrations are open until September 1st, 2021.Entry forms are posted on the website and artists can submit their work online, easily and free of charge. More about the Terms and Conditions can be found at: http://videomedeja.org/entries/terms-and-conditions/?lang=enAnyone interested in volunteering at 25th VIDEOMEDEJA can get more information through the link: http://videomedeja.org/volunteer/?lang=en ••• 3rd ANNUAL WOMEN'S FILMMAKERS FESTIVAL at SAAM Begins MARCH 1st The third annual, first all-online Women Filmmakers Festival at the Smithsonian American Art Museum begins March 1st for Women's History Month! Each event is free and registration is open! Organized by the Smithsonian American Art Museum, this year's Festival, themed "Her History Lessons," highlights three singularly inspiring artists. The selected artists and works all draw lessons from past moments that speak to our current challenges and to audiences navigating turbulent times. Check out more info at the Festival website! AND... Beyond Women's History Month, the pan-Smithsonian monthly series, Viewfinder: Women's Film and Video from the Smithsonian, continues throughout 2021 thanks to the Smithsonian American Women's History Initiative. image_from_ios_2.jpg image_from_ios_1.jpg ••• The Blue Water Film Festival The Blue Water International Film Festival celebrates World Oceans Day, June 8th, on the prestigious Martha's Vineyard at the Martha's Vineyard Film Center. The festival will run from June 4th - 8th, 2021. The festival's purpose is to encourage attendees to think broadly about how climate change affects planet Earth and deeply about the universal concerns and actions needed to bring us into balance. Roughly 50% of all film selections are non-US productions, helping to fulfill the festival mission of promoting cross-cultural understanding through film. Submission Deadline March 15th/Extended Deadline May 12th Discount code for the student submissions: CODE: BWFF2021 (50%) off bwff_submission_graphic_v1.jpg ••• The 8th Centrally Isolated Film Festival at Cornell University Submission Guidelines Any narrative, documentary, or experimental student films Films must be 20 minutes or less in length Maximum two submissions per person Deadline March 1 2020 image_from_ios_1.jpg ••• The Argo Student Short Film Fest Argo is a streaming platform for short films and documentaries, curated by global experts from the best film schools and festivals, showcasing amazing short content in 35 minutes or less. "We're so excited to be launching our first-ever student filmmaker-focused competition, SHORTS, on January 4th. Our digital flyer that explains a bit more about the competition and our timeline. SHORTS will have a $0 entry fee, and we will ask for non-exclusive permission to stream the chosen films. Watch our landing page on our website for all of the details, coming soon." Instagram Twitter Facebook Blog ••• The Next Generation Indie Film Awards Next Generation Indie Film Awards Foundation is a non-profit organization devoted to recognizing excellence in independent film and advance filmmakers' careers through services, education, and resources. Regular Deadline: December 15th 2020 $10 Off Promo Code: IndieStudent10. The price will be reduced from $35 to $25. Code is good until December 15, 2020. ••• CADAQUÉS SHORTFILM FESTIVAL The initial spirit of the CSF is a competitive short film festival with special projections related to Cadaqués and Surrealism, in this sense, nothing better than the Festival inaugurated with the projection of the iconic film of this movement, "Un Chien andalou" by Luis Buñuel and Salvador Dalí. Submissions via FilmFreeway ••• Impact x Netflix Over the course of the next year, Impact will source projects globally across four film genres and then develop select projects chosen by Netflix using our accelerated development system. The four film genres are: 1. Large scale action-adventure films for all audiences (Application closed) 2. Lifestyle movies with a competition element (Application closed) 3.Female-led Thrillers (Application closing November 1st) Press Release & to Submit Application ••• Images Festival Images presents work that counters dominant mainstream narratives and forms and provides, through hybrid curatorial and educational programs, alternative ways of thinking and seeing that expand our understanding of media art. Dates: The 34th edition of Images Festival will take place between April 15-21, 2021. Submission Deadline: October 31, 2020 Grants 2020 Carole Fielding Student Grant The UFVA-sponsored Carole Fielding Student Grant supports production or research proposals. The grant is open to undergraduate and graduate students in film, media, and related fields. Categories include narrative, documentary, experimental, animation, new media, and research. Deadline for applications is December 15, 2020 Non-department affiliated opportunities Internships & Fellowships A Guide to Internships Finding Hands-On Experience Locally & Abroad This is an interesting article to find out the ways an internship can boost a career, what type of internship is the right fit and tips for getting your dream internship locally and abroad. screen_shot_2021-08-20_at_5.03.59_pm.png The Minority Report is an industry-vetted fellowship program for the top diverse screenwriters enrolled in undergraduate or graduate educational institutions (Class of 2021 Graduates are eligible). Made by students, for students, it's the first-ever initiative of its kind. The contest is sponsored by DIVERSO, a student-run film nonprofit dedicated to changing the face of entertainment by empowering the underrepresented storytellers of the next generation. At DIVERSO, we believe that long-term, systemic change in Hollywood starts at the student level: providing underrepresented student groups with exposure, resources, and connections in Hollywood that they may not otherwise have access to. We offer an extensive professional platform to break into entertainment by connecting our Minority Report Fellows with top companies/executives/mentors and providing individualized guidance and stipend for career development. Submissions are collected from DIVERSO's network of 180+ Universities. Each script then goes through an extensive selection process. The top 12 scripts are judged by our Industry Jury members, who ultimately decide on the fellows for the 2021 Minority Report. To stay updated about this initiative, sign up for our newsletter! JMC is HIRING! The Jones Media Center has the following positions currently open to Dartmouth students: CIRCULATION SERVICES ASSISTANT TECHNICAL SERVICES ASSISTANT They are looking for students that understand and value good public service and are willing to work as team players. Check the Work @Jones website for detailed job descriptions. If interested please write to: jones.media.center@dartmouth.edu unnamed.jpg Internships Available at the Visual Studies Workshop: http://www.vsw.org/ Still and Moving Image Collections Internships VSW offers internships to undergraduate and graduate students. Internships can be tailored to fit the interests of the individual students but generally interns work on projects such as: lantern slide collection research and organization still image digitization magnetic media transfer assistance photograph, artist book, or film and video collection cataloging rare book collection housings and preservation creation of inventories and finding aids All interns are trained and supervised by collections curators. College course credit can be arranged depending on individual program requirements. For more information contact jessicajohnston@vsw.org vsw.org Visual Studies Workshop Visual Studies Workshop's mission is to support makers and interpreters of images through education, publications, exhibitions, and collections. OPEN CALL FOR ENTRIES AND FOR VOLUNTEERS for the 25th VIDEOMEDEJA dsc_0041-1024x685.jpg International Video Festival VIDEOMEDEJA is basic activity of the Video Art Association VIDEOMEDEJA. This is an annual non-profit event lasting for a few days. Festival consists of the competitive program and various accompanying programs which, depending on the current productions and conception, happens on the different locations in Novi Sad. The Call for Entries is open from April 1st, and will run until June 15th, 2021, and volunteer registrations are open until September 1st, 2021. Entry forms are posted on the website and artists can submit their work online, easily and free of charge. More about the Terms and Conditions can be found at: http://videomedeja.org/entries/terms-and-conditions/?lang=en Anyone interested in volunteering at 25th VIDEOMEDEJA can get more information through the link: http://videomedeja.org/volunteer/?lang=en (edited) ••• From Dartmouth At Play: Links! EA's internships and new grad job listings: https://www.ea.com/careers/students On-demand recordings from a virtual Next-Gen Talent conference from last year: https://events.bizzabo.com/EA-NGT-Conference/agenda -- the breakout sessions about different roles might be especially helpful for people curious about what else goes into games beyond the dev teams (free account registration required to watch on-demand sessions) Electronic Arts Inc. Student Careers at EA - Internship Opportunities - An Official EA Site Graduate? Join EA today and help us to inspire the world through Play. Learn about starting your new exciting career at Electronic Arts. EA's Next-Gen Talent Conference: Shaping the Future of Play Join us for our first-ever, all-day conference to connect with the next-generation of talent. Hear from our subject matter experts and leaders in the industry - all in your browser and on demand. The event will give insight into Electronic Arts' work, culture, and impact. Plus, learn more about our internship and University graduate programs and explore career development resources. Breakout Tracks include Work & Culture, Discipline-based Career Pathing, Intern & University Grad Panel, and EA's Intern 101. ••• ccd-horizontal-768x384.png Canyon Cinema Foundation invites proposals for a new curatorial endeavor: Canyon Cinema Discovered.This multifaceted, year-long fellowship program aims to engender fresh perspectives on experimental cinema and to meaningfully expand Canyon's role in providing access to this key strand of American media art. Four curatorial fellows will be selected to assemble programs from Canyon's unique collection of artist-made films for online streaming and a possible screening tour (conditions permitting). As a point of focus, the cohort will be encouraged to activate undervalued and underseen works and to incorporate recent acquisitions as well as complementary works from outside of the collection, with the aim of broadening Canyon's offerings and directly engaging with the continuing evolution of experimental cinema and media. Research will be conducted remotely under the guidance of a team of project advisors and Canyon Cinema staff over the course of 2021, beginning in May. The specially curated programs will be presented online starting in spring of 2022. These programs will be further enriched and contextualized by curatorial essays to be published on Canyon's website and in a printed catalog. In continuation with Canyon's commitment to providing access to rare artworks in their original medium, fellows will have the opportunity to catalyze the creation of new exhibition prints and digitizations of selected works. The newly struck 16mm prints made for Canyon Cinema Discovered will ensure that audiences can continue to experience these works in the best possible light. Meanwhile, the creation of new digital copies, for the purposes of research, study, and exhibition, will be crucial to expanding the availability of, and cultivating new audiences for, artist-made cinema. Each fellow will receive $3,000 for their participation in the program. Applicants can be based anywhere in the world, but should be fluent in English and available to attend monthly Zoom meetings and 2-3 online workshops/presentations. Fellows will be chosen through an open application process by a committee of project advisors composed of filmmakers, curators, and writers. Selections will be made on the basis of the applicant's ability to provide original perspectives on avant-garde and artists' cinema and media; to illuminate unheralded or forgotten film and videomakers; to organize programs that speak to contemporary social, political, and artistic concerns; and to forge strong intergenerational connections between legacy films in Canyon's collection and contemporary work by today's moving-image artists. Submission Deadline: April 1, 2021 To Apply, please submit (1) a statement outlining your interest in experimental film and media and previous curatorial experience (max. 250 words), (2) a brief program concept (max. 250 words), (3) a current CV, and (4) one to two critical writing samples, via the following online form: http://bit.ly/cc_discovered Canyon Cinema Foundation is committed to the principles of equal opportunity, equity in employment, accessibility, and to becoming a more inclusive organization. Members of traditionally underrepresented groups are welcome and strongly encouraged to apply. Individuals who require accommodation during the application process are invited to contact info@canyoncinema.com Project Advisors: Christopher Harris, filmmaker and Associate Professor of Cinematic Arts, University of Iowa; Steffanie Ling, writer and curator; Adam Piron, filmmaker, programmer, and Associate Director of Sundance Institute's Indigenous Program; Lynne Sachs, filmmaker and poetProject Funders: The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, the National Endowment for the Arts, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, the Hobson/Lucas Family Foundation ••• Internship Opportunities at Legendary Entertainment Legendary Entertainment has posted Internship Opportunities in the areas of TV Production, Features: Physical Production, Features: Creative, TV Development, Post Production, and Finance ••• Internship Opportunities at A24 Seeking Interns for Spring 2021 Season in areas of Remote Acquisitions & Development, Legal & Business Affairs, Post Production & Delivery, Publicity, Regional Events, & TV Development A24 Resume Drop Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback