Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next 2022 Arts at Dartmouth Awardees Each May, the Hop gathers together its community to honor and present awards to Dartmouth undergraduates who have excelled in the arts—delighting us during their four years with great musical, theater and dance performances, and marvelous film and screenwriting. Congratulations to all our wonderful students! Video Art Student Showcase (S22) Join us for the Student Showcase of FILM 48.02/SART 17.20 Video Art Student Showcase on Wed. June 1, 6:30 pm, VAC 001, with Prof. Mary Flanagan. Sound Final Screening (S22) You are invited to the FILM 44.04 Student Final Screening on Tue. May 31, 4:30—7 pm, Loew Auditorium, VAC. with Lecturer Shevaun Mizrahi. FMS Major Christian Beck '24 wins a Telly Award The film that he made in FILM 30 Documentary Videomaking with F&MS Assoc. Professor Jeff Ruoff in spring term 2021 was awarded a Bronze Telly Award. Congratulations, Christian! 2022 Arts at Dartmouth Awards Celebrate Dartmouth student artists with speeches and awards, on Tue. May 31, 4:30 pm, Spaulding Auditorium, HOP. FILM 20 Student Paper is Published Congratulations to Devon Kurtz '20 author of "One of the Boys: The Smug, Patriarchal Undertones of Anders als die Andern (1919)," published in Film Matters, Volume 12, Number 2, 1 September 2021, pp. 50-58(9). Devon worked on this research paper with F&MS Assoc. Professor Mark Williams. GlitchLab Student Exhibition We invite the Dartmouth community to join us in this interactive exhibit where they will be able to participate in the generation of AI art and engage in critical conversations about our work. May 23-27, 2022, Student Gallery VAC. Opening Reception Tue. May 24, at 4:45 pm. Video Mashups Final Project Screening (S22) Join us on Thursday, May 26 at 7 pm in the Loew Auditorium, Visual Arts Center, for the spring term 22 Final Project Screening of FILM 47.01 with Prof. Jeff Ruoff. Fulbright and DAAD Grant Recipients Announced The 13 award winners will teach, study, or conduct research around the globe. Director, Yared Zeleke visits Dartmouth Director, Yared Zeleke will be visiting Dartmouth from Mon. May 16 to Fri. May 20, 2022. His first feature, Lamb, was screened in the Un Certain Regard section of the Cannes Film Festival in 2015. It was the first Ethiopian film to be included in the "Official Selection". Recent Publications view all The Movie Musical Desirée J. Garcia Rutgers University Press Gross 'Inaccuracies, Misrepresentations, & Exaggerations': The Motion Picture Industry's Clean-up of Movie Fan Magazines in 1934 Mary R. Desjardins Mapping Movie Magazines: Digitization, Periodicals and Cinema History, Palgrave Macmillan Creating Stealth Game Interventions for Attitude and Behavior Change: An 'Embedded Design' Model Mary Flanagan, Max Seidman, Geoff Kaufman Persuasive Gaming in Context, Amsterdam University Press Toni Erdmann Gerd Gemünden Camden House Students Resources Find here information for student funding, internship opportunities, and more! Alumni Find out what our Alumni are up to these days! Offered Courses Learn about our course listing for the current and next academic year. Events view all Jun 01 6:30PM FILM 48.02/SART 17.20 Video Art Student Showcase VAC 001 Lower-level Auditorium Join us for the spring term Student Showcase of Video Art with Prof. Mary Flanagan. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback