Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share 2022 Arts at Dartmouth Awardees PreviousNext Maurice H. Rapf Award for Outstanding Achievement in Film Studies This award honors the legacy and contribution of Maurice Rapf '35, professor and friend. It is given to a graduating Dartmouth senior for significant achievement and contribution to the function of Film and Media Studies over the span of their undergraduate years. The award may be given to a student or students who produced superior films or videos, but may also be given for outstanding scholarship. Jael J. Campbell '22 Emily Charland '19 Matthew T. Gannon Jr. '22 Spencer Ryan Locke '22 Dominique Mobley '22 Anastasia Perez Ternent '22 The James Joseph Kaplan Filmmaker of the Year Award The James Joseph Kaplan Filmmaker of the Year award was established in February 2010 to honor and continue the legacy and extraordinary spirit of student, and friend, Jay Kaplan, Class of 2002. The award is given to a senior who thrives on the craft of filmmaking, bringing passion, creativity, imagination, and a strong work ethic to their work. They may also possess some of the qualities that Jay exemplified, including acting with kindness, generosity, love and respect, humor, humility, and inspiring and encouraging others. Khonzumthetho Masuku '22 The John P. Wolfenden Award in Film and Media Studies John grew up in North Carolina but visited Hanover every year. He knew at an early age that he wanted to go to Dartmouth and never wavered in that aspiration. At Dartmouth, he particularly enjoyed courses in philosophy and the creative use of computers in music. After a semester helping a friend who was majoring in film, he found that he greatly enjoyed scripting a story, one frame at a time, using sound to support the narrative line. After graduating from Dartmouth in 1992, John completed a degree in the American Film Institute and went on to enjoy many years of work in Los Angeles, editing television programs and documentaries. Lauryn Ashley Nicole King '22 Eduardo Hernandez Lopez '22 Alexander Laing Memorial Writing Award for the Best Original Screenplay by a Dartmouth Undergraduate This award was established in 1978 by screenwriter-novelist Stephen Geller '62 in honor of his friend and mentor, Professor Alexander Laing, who was killed in a bicycle accident in 1978. Laing '25 was a poet, novelist, and Professor of Belles Lettres at Dartmouth. This award has been funded in recent years by friends of Film and Media Studies. The criteria for judgment, according to the original donor, were to be a) vastness or pertinence of theme; b) clarity of narrative and psychological line; c) relevance of language — through narrative and character — to thematic purpose. Feature Screenplay First Place: Five/Four by Elijah Czysz '22 Feature Screenplay Second Place: Same Boat by Cecilia Zugel '21 Feature Screenplay Third Place: Duty, Honor, Country by Dominique Mobley '22 Feature Screenplay Honorable Mention: Too Many Cooks by Charlie Palsho '22 Pilot Screenplay First Place: Out of Touch by Eva Klein '21 Pilot Screenplay Second Place: Comfortable by Mary Winters '22 Pilot Screenplay Third Place: Anonymous Library by Valeria Pereira Quinteros '24 Pilot Screenplay Honorable Mention: Hunch by Spencer Ryan Locke '22 Short Script First Place: Geri at the Counter by Penelope Spurr '24 Short Script Second Place: Outgoing Tide by Sammy Bonasso '24 Short Script Third Place: How the World Rids Itself of Exceptional Artists by Hudson Rogers '25 Short Script Honorable Mention: Forgive or Forget by Katie Bartolino '25 Marcus Heiman–Martin R. Rosenthal '56 Achievement Awards in the Creative Arts The late Samuel R. Rosenthal, lawyer and supporter of the Ravinia Festival in Ravinia, Illinois, endowed these awards in 1959. The award is named after both Samuel Rosenthal's uncle, Marcus Heiman, and Mr. Rosenthal's late son, Martin R. Rosenthal '56, killed tragically in an automobile accident in 1976. Marcus Heiman, 1883-1957, was owner and operator of several midwestern vaudeville theaters and founder of the Orpheum Circuit, the Keith Orpheum Circuit and Radio Keith Orpheum Theater Company (RKO). In the 1930s he founded and became the head of United Booking Office, which booked plays for legitimate theaters throughout the country, and also participated in the production of many plays. The awards are to be used to "promote the work in the creative arts to be carried on in the educational program of the Hopkins Center" Elijah Thompson Czysz '22 Congratulations to all, we are so proud of you! Tags: Student Spotlight Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback