Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Film & Media Resources www.wmm.com Women Make Movies For more than 45 years, Women Make Movies has helped elevate diverse women directors and producers and improved equity in the film industry. The largest distributor of films by and about women in the world, WMM also supports hundreds of independent filmmakers each year with our highly successful Production Assistance Program. Check out their website! It has lots of information Resources: https://www.wmm.com/resources/ www.latinxdirectors.com/home LATINX DIRECTORS Our mission is to bridge studios and agencies with Latinx directors in the simplest way possible with our full, searchable website that includes film, T.V., and commercial filmmakers. But beyond wanting the studios and agencies to know we are here, we also recognize the need to build community among ourselves. Thus we are excited to offer a means to build a strong network of Latinx creatives. Check out their website! https://www.latinxdirectors.com/home www2.bfi.org.uk/flare/bfi-flare-mentorship-meet-filmmakers BFI Flare LGBT Filmmakers' Mentorship: meet the filmmakers Read the full article to find out all about the filmmakers who will be mentored through the programme. www.latinofilmmaker.org LATINO FILMMAKERS NETWORK Latino Filmmakers Network's mission is to connect, inspire, educate and create opportunities for Latinos while promoting diversity and inclusion in the entertainment industry by bridging the gap within the community to unite and present a powerful LatinX voice. Check out their website! https://latinofilmmaker.org/ www.docnyc.net RESOURCES FOR FILMMAKERS OF COLOR This information was published in https://www.docnyc.net/blog/resources-for-filmmakers-of-color/ on June 24, 2020 Grants, Fellowships, Labs, and Resources BAVC MediaMaker Fellowship Black Public Media's Training and Funding Sources The Blackhouse Foundation Center for Asian American Media Fellowship Garrett Scott Documentary Development Grant Film Independent's Project Involve Firelight Media Documentary Lab Firelight Media William Greaves Fund FRONTLINE/Firelight Investigative Journalism Fellowship Kartemquin's Diverse Voices in Docs New Orleans Film Society's Southern Producers Lab Sundance Institute's Inclusion Resource Map Sundance Institute Indigenous Program Vision Maker Media Public Media Content Fund Filmmaking Communities for Black and Indigenous Filmmakers and Filmmakers of Color A-Doc Network Black Documentary Collective Black Public Media Black Association of Documentary Filmmakers West The Black TV & Film Collective Black Women Directors Brown Girls Doc Mafia Cast and Crew of Color The Color of Film Collaborative Latino Filmmakers (Facebook Group) National Association of Latino Independent Producers The Organization of Black Screenwriters Black Media Collections, Archives, Publications and Research Centers Black Camera International Film Journal Black Film Center/Archive, Indiana University Blackfilm Black Filmmaker Foundation Black Hollywood Education & Research Center California Newsreel Mayme A. Clayton Library and Museum National Museum of African American History & Color Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, New York Public Library USC's Annenberg Inclusion Initiative www.refinery29.com The BIPOC Organizations That Might Just Save Hollywood From Itself This information was published in https://www.refinery29.com/en-us/2020/07/9923702/hollywood-diversity-bipoc-organizations-support by SHIRLEY WILLIAMS published on July 21, 2020. Hue You Know http://www.hueyouknow.com Instagram: @hueyouknow Firelight Media http://www.firelightmedia.tv/ Instagram: @firelight_media The Blackhouse Foundation http://www.theblackhouse.org Instagram: @the_blackhouse Black Public Media www.blackpublicmedia.org Instagram: @blackpublicmedia The Black TV & Film Collective www.blacktvfilmcollective.org Instagram: @blacktvfilmcollective Brown Girls Doc Mafia (BGDM) https://www.browngirlsdocmafia.com/ Instagram: @browngirlsdocmafia www.wgfoundation.org RESOURCES THAT SUPPORT BLACK CREATIVES From the article: https://www.wgfoundation.org/organizations-supporting-black-creatives Nonprofit Organizations Black Film Allegiance - Black Film Allegiance is a nonprofit organization united by a commitment to create visibility for underrepresented creatives. This is a space that provides mentorship, networking opportunities, promotes independent projects and talented creatives. Black Film Space - Black Film Space is a non profit 501 (c) 3 organization committed to building a community of filmmakers from the African Diaspora through skill enhancing and networking events. The Black Film & TV Collective - A leader in NYC for attracting, engaging and creating opportunities for talented storytellers of color in the fields of television, film and digital entertainment. The organization functions in three key areas: professional development, relationship building, and production support. Black Hollywood Education and Resource Center - The Black Hollywood Education and Resource Center, a nonprofit, public benefit organization, is designed to advocate, educate, research, develop, and preserve the history, and the future, of blacks in the film and television industries. The Blackhouse Foundation - The Blackhouse Foundation helps Black creative voices and executives gain a better foothold in the industry. We showcase the best-of-the-best in film and television and are committed to highlighting the power of Black writers, producers, directors, and executives telling our stories. Black Public Media - Black Public Media (BPM), formerly known as National Black Programming Consortium, develops, produces, funds, and distributes media content about the African American and global Black experience. Its mission is to commit to a fully realized expression of democracy and it accomplishes this by supporting diverse voices through training, education, and investment in visionary content makers. Black Women Film Network - Established in 1997, the Black Women Film Network (BWFN) was founded to prepare black women to enter the film and television industries. The organization seeks to preserve the voice of these women through film and educational programs that empower and inform. Organization of Black Screenwriters - The organization supports and advocate for the overlooked and underestimated screenwriters seeking to diversify the images, messages, and voices emerging from the entertainment industry across all platforms. Sisters in Cinema - Sisters in Cinema was established as a 501(c) 3 non-profit corporation in the state of Illinois with an inclusive mission to entertain, educate, develop and celebrate Black girls and women media-makers and future generations of storytellers and their audiences. Professional Organizations and Networking Associations African American Women in Cinema - Founded 22 years ago by producer Terra Renee, the membership organization exists to support the vibrant work of women. Black Association of Documentary Filmmakers West - The Black Association of Documentary Filmmakers - West (BAD West) is a professional organization providing people of African descent working in documentary film, video or other media the opportunity to network professionally, share resources, exchange ideas and meet socially in order to enhance the development, production, promotion and exhibition of documentaries. Cast and Crew of Color - Cast and Crew of Color is an online professional network developed by and for people of color to facilitate collaboration and empowerment. Committee of Black Writers at the WGAW - The Committee of Black Writers at the Writers Guild of America West (WGAW) is dedicated to empowering and increasing industry visibility of African-American writers and generating more career and networking opportunities. Diverse Representation - The mission of Diverse Representation is to increase the exposure and number of African-American agents, attorneys, managers and publicists who work in the sports and entertainment industry. The JTC List - A google doc of Women of Color who work in the film industry. Find updates on careers, achievements and plain and simple highlight badassery of WOC in Hollywood (and beyond). The Parity Project - The Parity Project advocates for fair economic and narrative inclusion and equity of black artists, executives and representatives in television and film. Collectives Black Women Directors - Black Women Directors is a website dedicated to highlighting the work of women and nonbinary filmmakers from the African Diaspora. It's an ongoing project designed to shine a light on the contributions of Black women and nonbinary folks to the film canon. Production Companies ARRAY - Array is an independent film distribution and resource collective dedicated to the amplification of independent films by people of color and women filmmakers globally. It is the rebirth of the African American Film Festival Releasing Movement (AFFRM) founded by Ava DuVernay in 2010. Black Women Animate - Black Women Animate is the first and only production company designed to improve the representation of black women in animation. ColorCreative - Founded in 2014 by Issa Rae and Deniese Davis, ColorCreative's mission is to discover emerging talent through various events, workshops, contests, and a referral network. They support talent by facilitating development and production of their original scripted and unscripted content for Film, TV, and Digital. Hillman Grad Productions - Hillman Grad Productions is a development and production company committed to creating art that goes against the status quo and gives a platform to marginalized storytellers by providing a platform for diverse voices across all mediums. Founded by Emmy-winning writer Lena Waithe and Rishi Rajani, the company currently has projects at Netflix, Disney, Showtime, HBO and Amazon. Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback