Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Film and Media Studies Program Home About Letter from the Chair Department History Resources Program Facebook Page Visitor Information Contact Us People Faculty Graduate Students Graduate Student Profiles Staff Postdocs Visitors Undergraduate Courses Film Studies Major Alumni Requirements Resources Study Abroad The Senior Requirement Undergraduate Awards Graduate Applying to and going through the Degree Foundations of the Field: Required Texts and Films Essential Texts Required Films Regulations and Requirements Film and Media Studies & African-American Studies Film and Media Studies & American Studies Film and Media Studies & Comparative Literature Film and Media Studies & East Asian Languages and Literatures Film and Media Studies & English Film and Media Studies & French Film and Media Studies & German Film and Media Studies & History of Art Film and Media Studies & Italian Film and Media Studies & Slavic Languages and Literatures Courses Dissertations Graduate Student Profiles Program Activities Conferences and Screenings Graduate Student Conference Reni Celeste Lectureship Rough Cut Resources Alumni Graduate Certificate Screenings European Cinema Series Russian Film Series The Yale Film Colloquium Treasures from the Yale Film Archive Annual Film Studies Conference Graduate Student Conference NHdocs Spring Film Series on Animated Monsters and/in East Asia Yale Festival of New Italian Cinema Yale Slavic Film Colloquium Japanese Cinema, old and new Chinese Cinema: To and Beyond Hollywood Working Papers Projects Sawyer Seminar on Screens Movie Memory Project Graduate Certificate Calendar Borderline: European Cinema 1959 OJ: Made in America News Faculty Bookshelf Welcome The Film and Media Studies Program is the hub for the study of film and other moving image and sound media at Yale. Deeply invested in scholarship, teaching and film programming, our Program both sustains the traditions of and nurtures the most innovative directions in film and media studies research. With our superb faculty and Yale’s extraordinary library and archival collections, the Program has taken its place as one of the most exciting venues for film and media study in the world. Contact Us Mailing Address Film and Media Studies Program Yale University P.O. Box 208201 New Haven, CT 06520-83201 Street Address Yale University 320 York Street, Rm. 119 New Haven, CT 06511 For General Information Email: katherine.germano@yale.edu Phone: (203) 436-4668 Visitor Information More… News Yale Filmmaker Discusses Power of Family Photos in Black History Month Film Series There was never a question for photographer and filmmaker Thomas Allen... Aaron Gerow appointed A. Whitney Griswold Professor Aaron Gerow, an authority on Japanese and East Asian cinema and literature... Faculty members honored with Poorvu award for excellence in teaching Yale College Dean Marvin Chun will host a gathering in the spring of 2022... More news... Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook