Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Mary R. Desjardins |Professor of Film and Media Studies Academic Appointments Professor, Department of Film and Media Studies Mary Desjardins received her PhD in Cinema-TV from USC. Before coming to Dartmouth, she taught at UC Santa Barbara and UT Austin. She has published articles in a variety of journals, such as Film Quarterly, Camera Obscura, Film History, Cinema Journal, Celebrity Studies, The Velvet Light Trap, Quarterly Review of Film and Video, Vectors, and The Spectator. She also has book chapters in 22 book collections, including Reframing Todd Haynes: Feminism's Indelible Mark; Mapping Movie Magazines: Digitization, Periodicals, and Cinema History;The Anthem Handbook of Screen Theory; Television, History, and American Culture: Feminist Critical Essays; Everyday eBay: Culture, Collecting and Desire; Headline Hollywood: 100 Years of Film Scandal; Communities of the Air: Radio Century, Radio Culture; When Private Talk Goes Public: Gossip in United States History; Glamour in a Golden Age: Movie Stars of the 1930s; Idols of Modernity: Movies Stars of the 1920s; and Fires Were Started: British Cinema and Thatcherism. Her books include Dietrich Icon, which she co-edited with Gerd Gemunden (Duke University Press, 2007); Recycled Stars: Female Stardom in the Age of Television and Video (Duke University Press, 2015); and Father Knows Best (Wayne State University Press, 2015). Mary served as an executive board member of the Society for Cinema and Media Studies (2014-17), and served on the advisory boards of Console-ing Passions: Conference on Television, Audio, Video, New Media, and Feminism until 2015 and "She Made It: Women Creating Television and Radio," a permanent collection at the Paley Center for Television and Radio. Areas of teaching specialty include: media history, film and television stardom, feminist theory, gender and the media, feminist filmmaking, melodrama, material culture, print culture and history. Contact Mary.R.Desjardins@Dartmouth.EDU 6-0237 207 Black Family Visual Arts Center HB 6194 Education B.A. University of California at Riverside M.A. University of California at Berkeley Ph.D. University of Southern California Areas of Expertise film,television, and radio history /print culture and the media /film and television stardom /feminist theory and feminist filmmaking /gender and the media /material culture and media /melodrama Selected Publications Recycled Stars: Female Film Stardom in the Age of Television and Video (Duke University Press, 2015). Father Knows Best (Wayne State University Press, 2015) Dietrich Icon, co-edited with Gerd Gemunden (Duke University Press, 2007). Special issues of Celebrity Studies (Volume 8, no. 4, December 2017) on celebrity biography/biopics, co-edited with Michael DeAngelis; Journal of e-Media Studies (Summer 2015) on race, gender, and genre in broadcast television and radio, co-edited with Mary Beth Haralovich. "The Incredible Shrinking Star: Todd Haynes and the Case of Karen Carpenter," Feminism’s Indelible Mark: Reframing the Work of Todd Haynes, eds. Therese Geller and Julia Leyda (Duke University Press, 2022), pp. 256-280. "Gross 'Inaccuracies, Misrepresentations, and Exaggerations': The Motion Picture Industry's Clean-up of Movie Fan Magazines in 1934," Mapping Movie Magazines: Digitization, Periodicals, and Cinema History, ed. Daniel Biltereyst and Lies Van de Vijver (Palgrave Macmillan, 2020). Runner-up for Best Edited Collection awarded by British Association of Film, Television, and Screen Studies (BAFTSS), 2021. “Feminist Media Histories Genealogies: Star Studies,” Feminist Media Histories, 4:2 (Spring 2018), pp. 185-190. "The Perils of 'IT': Clara Bow, Agency, Experience, and the Scandalous Life Story," Celebrity Studies 8:4 (2017). "Classical Hollywood (1928-1946)," Chapter Two of Costume, Make-up and Hair, edited by Adrienne L. McLean for Behind the Silver Screen Series (Rutgers University Press, 2016). "Editors' Introduction: Reconsidering Gender, Genre, and Race in Broadcast Radio and Television," (co-written and co-edited with Mary Beth Haralovich) Special Issue of Journal of e-Media Studies 4:1 (Summer 2015) "Performance, Labor, and Stardom in the Era of the Synthespian," Production Studies, the Sequel! Cultural Studies of Global Media Industries, edited by Miranda Banks et al (Routledge, 2015). "'Fan Magazine Trouble': The AMPP, Studio Publicity Directors and the Hollywood Press, 1945-1952," Film History 26:3 (2014) "'As Told by Helen Ferguson': Hollywood Publicity, Gender, and the Public Sphere," When Private Talk Goes Public: Gossip in American History," edited by Kathleen Feeley and Jennifer Frost (Palgrave MacMillan, 2014). "Fading Stars and the Ruined Commodity Form: Star Discourses of Loss in Early Fan Magazines," Researching Women in Silent Cinema: New Findings and Perspectives, edited by Monica Dall'Asta, Victoria Duckett, and Lucia Tralli (e-book, University of Bologna and University of Melbourne, Women and Screen Cultures, 2013). "'The Elegance. . .is Almost Overwhelming': Glamour and Discursive Struggles over Female Stardom in Early Television," Television: le moment experimental, edited by Gilles Delavaud and Denis Marachal (Editions Apogee, 2011). "'Not of Hollywood': Constance Bennett, Kay Francis, Ruth Chatterton, Ann Harding, Nancy Carroll," Glamour in a Golden Age: Movie Stars of the 1930s, edited by Adrienne L. McLean (Rutgers University Press, 2011). "A Method to this Madness? The Myth of the Mad Silent Film Star," Not So Silent: Women in Cinema Before Sound, edited by Sofia Bull and Astrid Soderberg Widding (Stockholm University Press, 2010). "An Appetite for Living: Clara Bow, Gloria Swanson, Colleen Moore, and the New Woman of the 1920s," Idols of Modernity: Film Stars of the 1920s, edited by Patrice Petro (Rutgers University Press, 2010). "Ephemeral Culture/eBay Culture: Film Collectibles and Fan Investments," Everyday eBay: Culture, Collecting, and Desire, edited by Ken Hillis et al (Routledge University Press, 2006). "The Objects of Our Affection: Material Practices, Material Culture," Vectors (e-journal, 2006). "The Incredible Shrinking Star: Todd Haynes and the Case of Karen Carpenter," Camera Obscura 57 19:3 (December 2004). "Systematizing Scandal: Confidential Magazine, Stardom, and the State of California," Headline Hollywood: A Century of Film Scandal, edited by Adrienne L. McLean and David Cook (Rutgers University Press, 2001). "Lucy and Desi: Sexuality, Ethnicity, and TV's First Family," Television, History, and American Culture: Feminist Critical Essays, eds. Mary Beth Haralovich and Lauren Rabinovitz (Duke Univ. Press, 1999), pp. 56-74. + View more Works In Progress Publicity Matters: Case Studies in Studio-era Hollywood's Public Relations, book-length study of the relation between the Hollywood studios, the press, and public relations between 1930-1960. In progress. Selected Works & Activities Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback