Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Desirée J. Garcia |Associate Professor Academic Appointments Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Affiliate, Film and Media Studies Desirée Garcia is an interdisciplinary humanities scholar, trained in American Studies, Ethnic Studies, and Film and Media Studies. Her areas of specialization include the musical film and race and ethnicity in American culture. Her publications range from monographs to scholarly journal articles and online essays about musicals and mediated representations of immigrants, race, and ethnicity. She has also produced historical documentaries for American Experience/PBS, including Zoot Suit Riots (2002) and Remember the Alamo (2004). Garcia received her Ph.D. in American Studies from Boston University and her B.A. in History from Wellesley College. She has taught at institutions large and small, including Mount Holyoke College, Ursinus College, and Arizona State University. In her book, The Migration of Musical Film: From Ethnic Margins to American Mainstream (Rutgers University Press, 2014), Garcia traces the history of early sound era musicals from the makers of African American films and the transnational networks of Yiddish and Mexican cinema. As such, the book is also the first to document the role of immigrants and migrants in the making of the genre, both inside and outside of Hollywood. Challenging notions that the genre is merely escapist entertainment, The Migration of Musical Film shows the musical to be a significant cultural product that has withstood the test of time precisely because it has ministered to peoples of different backgrounds as they negotiated their position within American society. Musicals made by marginalized communities were resonant and influential cultural products that developed a formal language in response to the concerns of their communities, a language that was ultimately incorporated into what we consider to be the Hollywood musical. The book destabilizes the notion of film genre as a nation-bound concept and instead, positions the musical film as a site of multiple points of cultural convergence, social conflict, and artistic creation. Garcia has written the soon to be published monograph, The Movie Musical, the latest in Rutgers' Quick Takes (Movies and Popular Culture) Series in which she explores the musical as a socially-relevant, adaptable, and mediating transnational genre. Her latest project, The Dressing Room: Backstage Stories and American Film, is a book about the relationship between space and performance narratives as they developed in American popular culture across time and generic space. Desirée Garcia’s teaching at Dartmouth includes courses on the U.S.-Mexican Borderlands, Race and Gender in American Film, the Latinx Stage and Screen, The Musical and Mexican Cinema. + View more Personal Website Contact Desiree.J.Garcia@Dartmouth.edu 207 Raven House, Phone 603-646-2541 HB 6026 Education B.A. Wellesley College Ph.D. Boston University Areas of Expertise American Film and Popular Culture /Race, Ethnicity, Migration /Musical Film and Musical Theater /Space and Place Selected Publications The Movie Musical (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 2021 ) The Migration of Musical Film: From Ethnic Margins to American Mainstream (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 2014) “Operation Amigos: The Original Amateur Hour Goes to Mexico,” Quarterly Review of Film and Video 36.7 (2019), 554-572. DOI: 10.1080/10509208.2019.1593014. “Toil Behind the Footlights: The Spectacle of Female Suffering and the Rise of Musical Comedy,” Frontiers: A Journal of Women’s Studies 40.1 (May 2019), 122-145. “Bisbee ‘17: The Performance of History,” The American Historical Review 124.3 (June 2019). “Invisible Immigrants: A Better Life and the Cinematic Undocumented” in Frederick Luis Aldama, ed. Latinx Ciné: Filmmaking, Production, and Consumption in the 21st Century (Tucson: University of Arizona Press, August 2019), 171-185. “Ramona in the City: Mexican Los Angeles, Dolores Del Rio, and the Remaking of a Mythic Story” in Jan-Christopher Horak, Lisa Jarvinen and Colin Gunckel, eds. Cinema Between Latin America and Los Angeles: Origins to 1960 (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 2019), 51-63. “There’s No Place Like Home: The Hollywood Folk Musical” in Cynthia Lucia, Roy Grundmann, and Art Simon, eds., The Wiley-Blackwell History of American Film, 4 vols. (Walden, Mass: Wiley-Blackwell, 2012), 318-338. “The Soul of a People: Mexican Spectatorship and the Transnational Comedia Ranchera,” The Journal of American Ethnic History 30.1 (2010), 72-98. “Subversive Sounds: Ethnic Spectatorship and Boston’s Nickelodeon Theatres, 1907-1914,” Film History: An International Journal 19.3 (2007), 213-227. + View more Works In Progress The Dressing Room: Backstage Stories and American Film (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press) Selected Works & Activities Actress (“Madeline”), Guy and Madeline on a Park Bench, dir. Damien Chazelle (Variance Films, 2009) Associate Producer, Remember the Alamo (American Experience/WGBH, 2004) Associate Producer, Zoot Suit Riots (American Experience/WGBH, 2002) Guest, Filmspotting Podcast, WBEZ Chicago, “#614 Top 5 Musical Numbers” (Dec. 7, 2016). Consultant, Filmspotting Podcast, WBEZ Chicago, “Minnelli Marathon #1: Cabin in the Sky” (Feb. 28, 2018). Public Scholarship “La La Land’s Debt to Ethnic Musicals of Yore.” Zócalo Public Square (Feb. 14, 2017) “The Dark Past and Diverse Present of Zoot Suit” in “Movies’ Most Memorable Mexican American Moments.” Zócalo Public Square (May 26, 2015). Film Projects PreviousNext Courses Race and Gender in American Film The Musical Mexican Cinema Space and Genre Comparative Perspectives on the U.S.-Mexico Borderlands Latinx-ploitation + View more Related Links THE MOVIE MUSICAL “La La Land’s Debt to Ethnic Musicals of Yore” “The Dark Past and Diverse Present of Zoot Suit” in “Movies’ Most Memorable Mexican American Moments” Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback