Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Film & Media Studies Department of Film & Media Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Film.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Back to Top Nav Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Back to Top Nav Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Gerd Gemünden Academic Appointments Professor of German Studies Professor of Film and Media Studies Professor of Comparative Literature The Sherman Fairchild Professor in the Humanities Gerd Gemünden is the Sherman Fairchild Professor of the Humanities, and Professor of German Studies, Film and Media Studies, and Comparative Literature. He studied German, English and Philosophy at the University of Tübingen and Comparative Literature at the University of Oregon (Ph.D. 1988). His specialties include critical theory and cultural studies, the history and theory of German cinema, Latin American and global art cinema, an the study of exile, migration and diaspora. He is the author of Die hermeneutische Wende: Disziplin und Sprachlosigkeit nach 1800 (1990); Framed Visions: Popular Culture, Americanization, and the Contemporary German and Austrian Imagination (1998), and A Foreign Affair: Billy Wilder's American Films (2008 - also published in Austria as Filmemacher mit Akzent: Billy Wilder in Hollywood). His volumes as editor include Wim Wenders: Einstellungen (1993); The Cinema of Wim Wenders (1997); Germans and Indians: Fantasies, Encounters, Projections (2002); Dietrich Icon (2007); and Culture in the Anteroom: The Legacies of Siegfried Kracauer (2012). He serves on the editorial board of New German Critique and Film Criticism and is co-editor (with Johannes von Moltke '89) of the series "Screen Cultures" for Camden House and their German Film Classics series. Continental Strangers: German Exile Cinema, 1933-1951 (Columbia University Press, 2014) investigates the contribution of German-language filmmakers to the Hollywood studios during their exile from Nazi Germany. In recent years, his focus has shifted to global art cinema, particularly from Latin America. Together with his wife, Silvia Spitta (Professor of Spanish and Portguese), he has developed the course "Migration Stories," which takes a comparative look at immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers coming to Europe and to the United States. He has also developed a course on recent Latin American cinema, and he has begun attending film festivals in Havanna, Lima, and Cusco. In 2017, he published the first English-language monograph on Argentine director Lucrecia Martel (University of Illinois Press). His latest book is Toni Erdmann (Camden House, 2021). His is currently working on a book-length monograph, tentatively titled "Gost Cinema: Realism and the Supernatural in Recent Latin American Film." Since 1995, Gerd has been covering the Berlin Film Festival for Film Critcism. His festival report from 2021 can be found here. (Coverage of earlier festivals is also archived on this website). + View more Contact Gerd.Gemunden@Dartmouth.EDU 2491 201A Bartlett Hall HB 6084 Education B.A. Universität Tübingen M.A. University of Oregon Ph.D. University of Oregon Areas of Expertise Critical Theory and Cultural Studies /History and Theory of German Film /Latin American and Global Art Cinema /Exile, Migration, Diaspora Selected Publications Lucrecia Martel (Urbana, IL: The Univesrity of Illinois Press, 2019) Continental Strangers: German Exiles in Hollywood, 1933-1951 (Columbia University Press, 2014) A Foreign Affair: Billy Wilder's American Films (Berghahn, 2008) “The Making of Now: New Wave Cinema in Berlin and Buenos Aires.” In: A Transnational Art Cinema: The Berlin School and Its Global Contexts Eds. Marco Abel and Jaimey Fisher. Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 2018. 293-312. Germans and Indians: Fantasies, Encounters, Projections . Edited with Colin Calloway and Susanne Zantop (Nebraska University Press, 2002). Framed Visions: Popular Culture, Americanization, and the Contemporary German and Austrian Imagination (Michigan University Press, 1998). Die hermeneutische Wende: Disziplin und Sprachlosigkeit nach 1800 (Berghahn, 1990). + View more Works In Progress Monograph on realism and the supernatural in recent Latin American film. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Film & Media Studies Undergraduate Overview Major, Minor, And Modified Major The Major Major Requirements Culminating Experience Culminating Exp. Project Funding The Modified Major Modified Major Requirements Modifying another Major with Film and Media Studies Honors Program The Minor Minor Requirements Offered Courses 2022-23 Offered Courses Courses' descriptions FILM 80 Independent Study Post-Graduation Project Fund Off-Campus Programs Overview Los Angeles Student Work Overview Alumni Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Student Resources Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Statement Dartmouth Resources Film & Media Resources Suggestions News & Events Overview Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Department History People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback