Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Film & Media Studies myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Events Select to follow link Career Week in LA News Newsletters Calendar of Events Contact Academics Select to follow link Advising Undergraduate Degrees Select to follow link Undergraduate Courses Graduate Degrees Select to follow link Graduate Courses Admissions People Select to follow link Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Faculty Emeriti Current Students Select to follow link Scholarships/Awards Funds & Grants Internships Student Clubs Casting Call Guidance Campus Resources Graduate Student Resources Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Alumni Updates Professional Advisory Board Facilities/Equipment Select to follow link Facilities Equipment Space Reservations Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Film & Media Studies Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Film & Media Studies The world has stories to tell, and through analysis and production, we work toward a greater awareness of who we are, where we've been, and where we are going. Film & Media Studies 350+ students 14,148 sq. ft. of Soundstage, Studio, and lab space $1.8M of production equipment Our People Our Faculty Our world-class faculty inform the community with their research as well as lending their talents through production work. Many have been recognized in the industry through publications in prominent journals and through recognition and awards in the film community. Get to Know Our Faculty Our Students Lourdes Kalusha-Aguirre has a passion to inspire political engagement through film. Several of the films she’s created have won awards, including a 2019 Brosseau Creativity Award from the Spencer Museum of Art, and been screened as part of major events like the New York Latino Film Festival. Meet Lourdes Kalusha-Aguirre Our Alumni Barry St. John, works as a Visual Effects Producer in Hollywood. He was a member of the ground-breaking visual effects team for Oscar winner “The Jungle Book”. Barry has worked at the cutting edge of film technology, contributing his many talents to some of Hollywood’s biggest blockbusters, including “Men in Black 3,” “Fast and Furious 7,” “The Jungle Book,” and “The Great Gatsby.” See Why Barry is a Hawk to Watch Latest News Thu, 05/19/22 KU Chancellor announces promotion, tenure for Prof. Miner and other faculty and researchers for Fall 2022 LAWRENCE – Chancellor Douglas A. Girod has approved the promotion and award of tenure, where indicated, for 50 individuals at the University of Kansas and Edwards campuses and 110 individuals at KU Medical Center campuses. Tue, 04/26/22 FMS alum Micah Brown Interviewed on the Jayhawker Podcast When you come to Kansas as a student athlete, you get very familiar being in front of a camera. Interviews and nationally televised games are the norm. It kind of comes with the territory. See all news Upcoming Events See all events Virtual Facilities Tour Schedule a Campus Visit Explore Your Degree We offer several options for your undergraduate or graduate studies, including Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of General Studies (BGS), Minor, Master of Arts (MA), Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), and Graduate Certificate. Undergraduate Degree Graduate Degree Ready to Apply? Admission Requirements Submit Your Application Meet Your Advisor Career Week in LA In this highly competitive event, qualified FMS students apply for the opportunity to go to Los Angeles to explore career options in the film and media industry. Selected students gain exclusive access to studios and companies led by KU alumni. Students can pursue potential internships and expand their professional network. Career Week Info Become a Jayhawk Join the KU Film & Media Studies Department Apply Here! Hear From Our Students Celia Tise talks about her experience during Career Week in LA and gives some advice to incoming freshman. Follow us on social media FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTube Opportunities in FMS Internships FMS students are encouraged to get professional experience through internships. Besides improving your skills, the connections you make have the potential to lead to paid employment. Sign up Student Clubs Collaborate and expand your skillset by producing films with other students. Get Involved Study Abroad Expand your community and learn about other cultures while getting college credit. Pack Your Bag Summerfield Hall, Suite 230 1300 Sunnyside Ave Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 film@ku.edu 785-864-1340 facebook instagram twitter youtube Admissions Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Faculty Facilities Equipment Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.