Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Search Financial Aid FAFSA Guidance This core document is required for both need-based and federal loan applications. Breadcrumb Home Apply for Aid Sub Navigation In This Section MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions FAFSA Guidance This core document is required for both need-based and federal loan applications. Funding your medical education begins with completing the FAFSA. This core document is required for both AMS need-based and federal loan applications. For the 2019-2020 application cycle, you can complete the FAFSA online. New for the 2019-2020 application cycle are mobile applications from the App Store (iOS) and Google Play (Android). A helpful guide to completing the FAFSA document has been provided for your convenience. FAFSA Guidance Helpful Hints You will need your FSA ID Username/Email and Password to log in. For questions with logging into your FSA account, please visit the federal student aid website. The Warren Alpert Medical School FAFSA Code is E00059. Please complete the Student Education and Independent Student sections, as follows, to prompt the parent section for AMS need-based aid applications. Who is my FAFSA Parent? The parent who will be signing the FAFSA form. The FAFSA defines marital status for your first parent and other parent below: never married: enter parent who provided most support unmarried and both legal parents live together: enter both parents married or remarried: enter both parents in household divorced or separated: enter parent who provided most support widowed: enter parent Please use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) to transfer information from the IRS to your FAFSA. Note: The information will not display on your FAFSA. For your protection, the answer to each question is replaced with "Transferred from the IRS." The IRS DRT allows you to securely transfer original IRS tax return information, but not Form 1040X amended tax return information. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search FAFSA Guidance Open details for FAFSA Guidance Bookmark this Page