Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award The Family Contribution Parents and students work together. Your total expected family contribution (EFC) is comprised of two parts. To determine the parent contribution we consider many factors, including income, assets, expenses, and household size. The parent contribution is meant to cover the billed expenses as well as non-billed travel expenses. The student contribution represents an estimated amount that students will spend on their own out-of-pocket expenses during the academic year. This amount matches the Books and Personal Expenses allowance in the student budget and is meant to cover those expenses. For convenience, the class dues and activities fees, which are part of these budgeted expenses, are billed on the student account directly. It is important to note, however, that the student contribution is not an amount you are required to pay on the student bill—rather, it is an estimation of your out-of-pocket expenses. You will determine your own spending, which may differ from this amount. In addition to working in a campus job and earning wages to cover expenses, students may earn outside scholarships, utilize earnings from the summer, or choose to borrow a student loan. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746