Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home UW Depts Student Accounts Reports Student Accounts Reports Menu Home UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Reporting Services In alignment with the UW’s Two Years to Two Decades Initiative (2y2d), SFS is working with UWIT Decision Support to migrate all student account reports to Reporting Services. The migration of these reports will allow departments to self-serve. The reports are generated dynamically from the UW’s enterprise data warehouse (EDW) via a web browser over a secure connection (requires login using your netid). Report features (e.g., column sorting, etc.) are most accurately displayed using Internet Explorer. Requesting Access To run these reports, departmental staff must first request access to the appropriate data. All requests are reviewed by data custodians (e.g., SFS for access to student account data, OSFA for access to student financial aid data, etc.) prior to access being granted. To request access: Complete the access request form For Access Role, select Student Fiscal Analyst Make sure to complete all fields Submit the form Access requests may take up to ten business days to be reviewed. Finding Reports A complete catalog of reports is available from Decision Support. To access student account reports: Navigate to the DSS Reporting Services production server User name: NETID\your netid Password: your netid password Click on the Academics folder Browse to, and click on, the report title Enter the appropriate parameters Click on the View Report button Alternately, go directly to the student account reports folder. Parameters Parameters are predefined search criteria that are used to select specific data to display in the report. Some of these are defined pull-down pick lists, while others are open format fill-in-the-blank fields. It is important to note that the software used to deliver reports does not check the validity of free form parameters. If you enter an invalid parameter, you will receive either an error message or a report containing no data. In order to reduce the number of items in such lists, things like charge codes or budget numbers may be constrained by other parameters (such a quarter and year) or by using part of the charge code or budget number (usually the first two digits) as a parameter to create the list. Also, in order to limit the impact of report generation on all users of the system, SFS reports based on charge codes or budget numbers limit selection to a single instance of a charge code or budget number at a time. While this may be an inconvenience when needing to review activity across multiple charge codes or budget numbers, some of these will contain so many records that running more than one at a time would seriously impair server performance to the detriment of all users. Getting Help If you need assistance, please see Decision Support’s page, What do you need to do?. Home UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Quick Links Request for Training for budgets on SDB How to Cancel an Award SDB Access request Tuition Rates Request Access to Reports Browse / View Reports Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA