retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Financial and Administrative Services MENU FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter Search Search Student Accounts Receivable Perkins Loan Services Nurse Faculty Loan Program (NFLP) Services SAR Resources AFM Departments Administrative Services Financial Accounting and Reporting Inventory Services Payroll Services Tax Services Treasury and Risk Management AFM Resources AFM Training Resources Allocation Details Training Resources Classes Communication Lists *DEFINE Help Resources Financial Calendar Financial Contacts Listserve Financial Systems Training Sessions Forms FRMS Training Resources Handbook of Business Procedures Rate Review Procedures Signature Desk Request Forms Submit File to Vendor Identification Department TXShop Workday Financial Transaction Guidance About AFM AFM Organizational Chart Contact Information News AFM Leadership Financial Reports HBP Part 20.2.1. Records Management Services Documents Handbook of Business Procedures Part 20. Records Management - Table of Contents Date published: October 23, 2012 Last revised: March 3, 2022 Issued by: Records and Information Management Services 20.2.1. RECORDS AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SERVICES DOCUMENTS A. The University of Texas Records Retention Schedule (UTRRS) The UTRRS is the foundation document of the university records management program. It is used by departments to develop a records inventory as well as to request to dispose of records. It is used by Records and Information Management Services to authorize the disposition of records. This is the authoritative copy of the University of Texas at Austin Records Retention Schedule. Any discrepancies with local copies will be resolved in favor of this version. The University of Texas Records Retention Schedule (UTRRS) Amendment 1 to the 8th Recertification Approved for use September 17, 2021 B. Records Management Tools The following resources are used to manage records at the department level: UTRRS Resource Version The resource version of the UTRRS includes the official certified retention schedule as well as directions, guides, and other information to assist users in applying retention rules to their records. Records Inventory Workbook The Records Inventory Workbook is used to develop a list of records managed in the department and information about their management. Request to Dispose of Records Form The Request to Dispose of Records Form is used to request authorization to dispose of university master records. Digitizing Departmental Records This quick guide includes the Digitized Master Records Acknowledgment form, used by departments to acknowledge standards required for digitizing master records. Records Management Language for Contracts Records Management Language for Contracts is a resource for federal agencies that can be adapted for university contracts for services that create, manage, or maintain state data, information, or records, such as hosted services, or cloud-based storage solutions by using the references to Texas laws and University policy provided in 20.4.4. Contracts Pertaining to State Records. Part 20. Records Management - Table of Contents HBP Resources HBP Table of Contents HBP Content Updates Forms Glossary References Accounting and Financial Management MAI 132 P.O. Box 7159 Austin, TX 78713 Mail Code: K5300 Phone: 512-471-3723 Fax: 512-471-1651 Website problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Financial and Administrative Services UT Mission & Values UT System UT System Policy Library UT System Regents' Rules & Regulations State of Texas UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022