Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Resources Petitions Petitions Menu Home Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar Petitions to waive tuition forfeitures will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Your petition will be reviewed once all information is complete and required documentation has been received. Incomplete petitions may be rejected. Petitions will be reviewed within three business days. Petition decisions will be sent to your email address on record via your MyUW. Tuition Forfeiture Tuition forfeitures are fees that are charged when you make changes to your schedule after the add/drop period of the first 7 days of the quarter. The first forfeiture period begins on the 8th calendar day of the quarter and runs through the 30th calendar day of the quarter during Autumn, Winter and Spring quarters (Summer is the 8th-21st day). In this period, if you drop classes that result in a change of tuition cost, you will be responsible for 50% of the cost difference between what you were previously being charged and your current tuition cost, in addition to your new tuition rate. For instance, if your original bill was $5000, and then you dropped classes to a rate where your tuition is not $2500, you would owe $2500 for your new tuition and $1250 for the forfeiture (half the difference). The second forfeiture period begins the 31st calendar day of the quarter and runs until the of the quarter for Autumn, Winter and Spring quarters (Summer is the 22nd-last day of the quarter). In this period, if you drop classes that result in a change fo tuition cost, you will be responsible for 100% of your initial tuition cost, regardless of whether you are completing some of the classes or fully withdraw. Tuition forfeiture charges can be waived if a student has a situation that meets the specific guidelines listed below. Please read the guidelines carefully before submitting your petition. Please select the appropriate petition: Seattle Campus Bothell Campus Tacoma Campus Continuum College/Professional & Continuing Education Forfeiture Guidelines: Reason Qualifications Documentation Required A. Disability/Illness Illness of the student of such severity or duration that completion of the quarter is precluded One of the following that applies specifically to the quarter requested in your petition: A completed Health Provider Verification form, or A letter from your physician on their professional letterhead which includes the date of your medical visit; the description and duration of your condition; the impact to your attendance at the University; and why it prevented you from attending. Note: Documentation may be verified directly with the provider at the discretion of the Forfeiture committee. B. Call to active U.S. military duty Call to active military duty after the 7th calendar day of the quarter Your military orders showing the effective date of deployment. C. Death Death of the student or member of the immediate family (parent, spouse, domestic partner, child, sibling, grandparent) Documentation of both the death and your relationship to the deceased must be provided. Examples of documentation would include a death certificate, a copy of remembrance of a service, a funeral notice, etc. D. University Error Student incorrectly advised by UW representative A statement explaining how the University was in error from the responsible UW personnel, either: In an email originating from the individual’s UW email address, or On official UW letterhead from the University department. E. Other The reason does not fall within any other guidelines and/or: New Student: This is your first quarter at the UW and the petition is being filed within the current quarter. Extenuating circumstances: The student has a well-documented and reasonable justification for submitting the petition Any additional documentation that can be provided to support your “reasonable justification.” Note: Petitions under the guideline of "Other" for reasons besides new student require a special committee review and will require documented justification. RCW 28B.15.600 Home Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA