Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Financial Need & Eligibility Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Basics Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility Average Aid Levels Factors Considered in Brown's Need Analysis Formula Expected Family Contribution Noncustodial Parent Contribution Need-blind Admissions The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Financial Need & Eligibility The needs analysis formula is the starting point for determining financial aid eligibility. Financing a Brown education is most successful through a partnership that draws on the resources of the student, the family, federal/state governments and the University. At Brown, we believe the primary responsibility to pay for college, to the extent possible, lies with the family. Eligibility for financial aid from the University is based on demonstrated financial need. Brown, like all members of the Ivy League, does not offer aid based on academic achievement, athletic ability or any other form of merit or talent. Brown meets the full demonstrated financial need of all applicants. Based on eligibility, a financial aid award may consist of any combination of state grant, federal grant and work-study/campus employment. The remaining demonstrated need is met with University Scholarship that do not have to be repaid. Brown does not package loans in its aid awards, but families may choose to pursue loans to cover their unique expenses. Students must reapply for financial aid each year. The Needs Analysis Formula We start by setting a budget, or Cost of Attendance, for the academic year. Next, we calculate the family's share of college costs, or EFC. Subtracting the EFC from the Cost of Attendance, we are able to determine the student's Financial Need. Brown's financial aid award will be equal to the student’s Financial Need. Each component of the formula is made up of several factors: Cost of Attendance Composed of: Tuition & Fees Room & Board Books & Supplies Misc. Expenses Travel Cost of Attendance – Expected Family Contribution ( EFC ) Composed of: Parent Contribution Student Contribution from Assets Student Contribution from Summer Earnings More about EFC = Financial Need Met with: State and/or Federal Grants Work-Study University Scholarship Types of Aid Once our office determines the level of financial need, we create a financial aid package, with multiple funding sources, in this order: State and/or federal grants Standard amount of work-study/campus employment University Scholarship (for remaining need) Determining Eligibility Brown awards and distributes aid based on demonstrated financial need only. To determine need, we first measure the financial strength of the family. We collect financial information from the CSS Profile for all applicants and the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for U.S. citizen applicants. We then verify the accuracy of this information with income tax returns. We consider many factors including marital status of parents, number of dependents, number of children in the household pursuing an undergraduate education, unusual medical expenses, and federal, state and local taxes, to name a few. Each analysis is reviewed individually, and in many cases modified, according to institutional policy. The Financial Aid Award All applicants admitted to Brown receive a financial aid award letter. This letter provides the family with the with an: Estimate of direct and indirect costs for the academic year (except health insurance) Estimate of the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) Overview of all financial aid awarded The cumulative amount of the financial aid awarded equals the student’s demonstrated financial need, or the education costs that exceed a family's expected contribution. This financial aid award often includes more than one type of financial aid. The most common types are student employment, federal and state grants, and University Scholarship. Example of Need Calculation and Financial Aid Award The following example demonstrates the components of a Brown financial aid package and is not a guarantee for a financial aid package. Cost of Attendance $82,670 - Student Contribution from Summer Earnings $2,900 - Student Contribution from Assets $500 - Parent Contribution $24,000 = Financial Need $55,270 Using the example financial need above, an example of an award follows: Financial Aid Package** University Scholarship $52,320 Work-Study/Campus Employment $2,950 Total Financial Aid $55,270 Please note, the examples above are based on the current standard Student Contribution from Summer Earnings for returning students, which is $2,900. For the 2021-22 academic year, the estimated Student Contribution from Summer Earnings for first year students is $2,700. Additional Resources Factors Considered in Brown's Needs Analysis Formula Learn more about how Brown calculates a family's financial contribution to the student’s education. Estimators & Calculators These tools help students and their families estimate and calculate costs at Brown. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Financial Need & Eligibility Open details for Financial Need & Eligibility Bookmark this Page