Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Finance Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Finance Topics Systems Training Forms & Documents Policies About Buying and Paying Travel and Expense Accounting Operations Payroll Tax and Unclaimed Property Banking and Cash Management Audit and Risk Management Budgets Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Financial Administration International Operations Investments Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing Log Into ARC Log Into Concur About This Site Finance Announcements Finance Departments Careers with Columbia Finance EVP of Finance and Information Technology Financial Reports Organizational Charts Service Center Columbia Finance Columbia Finance Home Photo of Butler Library by Jsquish and modified under CC BY-SA 4.0 license Financial stewardship and services in support of University teaching, research, and patient care Welcome to Columbia Finance info icon About This Site gear icon Top Finance Systems laptop icon Popular Trainings users icon Visit Our Finance Departments I need help with shopping-cart icon Buying and Paying Find resources to purchase and pay for goods and services. plane icon Travel and Expense Manage travel and expenses associated with University business. calculator icon Accounting Operations Find common accounting procedures and reports, including journal entries and petty cash. dollar icon Payroll Find payroll information for faculty, staff, and departments administering payroll. percent icon Tax and Unclaimed Property Find tax forms and information, resources, and learn about unclaimed property. credit-card icon Banking and Cash Management Find resources for managing university bank accounts, acceptable payment methods, and credit card acceptance/merchant services. umbrella icon Audit and Risk Management Learn about internal audits and find insurance resources to ensure you are implementing best practices and controls. flask icon Sponsored Projects: Post-Award Administration Find guidance for managing the post-award, financial lifecycle of sponsored projects. pie-chart icon Budgets Manage your budgets with our tools and training. Announcements May 13, 2022 Sponsored Project Financial Reports for PIs / Scope Is Dates of e-mail communications to PIs and Scope Is alerting them to report availability via the Sponsored Project Reports WebViewer. May 11, 2022 Endowment Income Distribution The endowment income distribution for May 2022 has been processed in ARC. May 10, 2022 April Closing Is Complete The Controller’s Office has completed all month-end closing processes for April. Click the title for more information. More News Columbia Finance615 West 131st Street, Studebaker Building · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close