Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Pay Bill Holds Holds block initial enrollment and delivery of transcripts and diplomas. A hold will remain on the account until a full repayment or requirement is satisfied. Balances may be paid by cash, certified funds, or credit card. If payment is by personal paper check or online eCheck, the account holder will be required to wait up to two weeks until the payment has cleared the bank to enroll or secure a transcript or diploma. Contact Student Accounts & Receivables for questions or assistance regarding the following holds: Past Due Balance: You owe KU money. Pay online or at the cashier’s office on the appropriate campus. Student Loan Hold KULC: You have a past due amount on your Perkins/HPSL/LDS Loan. If a loan is 90 days past due, a "Past Due" hold is placed on your student account. Once this loan has been placed with an outside collection agency, a "Default" hold is placed. The hold will remain on your account until the entire outstanding balance of the loan is paid in full. When a Perkins/HPSL/LDS borrower graduates, leaves, or drops below half-time status, they are federally required to do an exit interview for their loan. An "Exit Interview" hold will remain on the account until requirements are met. Student Accounts & Receivables Hold: Your student account reflects past nonpayment status. Returned Check: Your personal check was not accepted. Payment must be remitted with cash, certified funds, or credit card. Additional information Refunds Select to follow link Taxes Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.