Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Q: I do not have access to JobX/TimesheetX, what should I do? A: Please request access from the JobX Employer page. If you supervise students in more than one department, please leave a note indicating your department affiliation(s) on the access form. Q: If I know who I want to hire, do I still have to list the job publicly? A: You must create the job in JobX, however you can place it in “review mode” which will prevent job-seekers from viewing and applying to the position. You can then hire your students as a “walk-in” hire. Q: If I have to hire 10 of my students, do I have to create 10 jobs or would it be one job with 10 open positions? A: You would create one job, and hire 10 students into that job. Q: Will this system still be bi -weekly? Will we receive reminders? A: Yes, students will be paid according to the bi-weekly payroll schedule. Payroll deadline reminders will be sent to supervisors and students. Q: Will Federal Work-Study (FWS) status and balance be available in the new system? A: Yes - student FWS eligiblilty and award information is available in TimesheetX. Q: Is the new JobX and TimesheetX system connected to PeopleSoft Time Management? A: No, they are not connected. All Spring 2021 jobs must be hired through the JobX system. Beginning January 25, 2021, all student work will be recorded in the TimesheetX system. Q: Will students who worked in PeopleSoft Time Management be automatically hired into JobX/TimesheetX? A: No, you will have to create a new job in JobX and hire the student into TimesheetX. This is primarly due to the new wage structure. Q: How far in the past can hours be input? A: Hours may be entered according to the job start date. For example, a student job with a start date of September 1 would be accessible for a supervisor to approve hours as far back as September 1. Q: Can I enter time on behalf of student employees? A: This is highly discouraged. Students will be accustomed to entering their own time in TimesheetX, and must be specific about the which hours are worked. For example, they will need to enter 12:00-2:00 pm, and not just a generic 2 hours worked. Entering hours on behalf of students creates unnecessary work for supervisors, and introduces possible timekeeping errors. Q: How is NJ sick time handled? A: Students and supervisors will be able to see sick time balance and students will select NJ Sick Time on the timesheet. Q: Will supervisors be able to charge multiple chartstrings to a student job? A: No, student jobs will only be able to be charged to one chartstring. Q: Can the chartstring be changed later in the semester? A: The chartstring cannot be adjusted by supervisors after a student is hired. If you need to change the chartstring for a student job, please contact our office for assistance. Q: What does the approval flow look like to get students paid? A: There is only one level of approval in TimesheetX. Each job can have one primary supervisor, and multiple secondary supervisors. Anyone with primary or secondary supervisor access to a job can approve time in TimesheetX, which will then be included in the next Payroll run. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746