By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Loans Educational Loans More from this Section Federal Consolidation Loan Loan Exit Counseling Educational Loans If you are interested in applying for Federal Direct Loans (U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens only), you should not wait for an admission decision before applying. You should file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible after October 1 and prior to June 30 for aid for the following academic year. Federal Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan (for parents) Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Federal Direct Consolidation Loan Alternative Choosing an Alternative/Private Loan Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Subsidized Loans are for undergraduate students to help pay for the cost of his or her education after high school. The lender is the U.S. Department of Education. Eligibility for Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans is determined by the information you submit on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and according to U.S. Department of Education regulations. Read more about the difference between a subsidized and unsubsidized Loan . Federal Direct Subsidized Loans are based on need. No interest is charged while the student is enrolled at least half-time. The U.S. Government charges a small fee, which will reduce the amount of the loan disbursed to your account. Repayment begins six months after you cease to be enrolled at least half-time. Interest Rate* 3.73% Loan Fees 10/1/21 - 9/30/2022 1.057% Credit Check No Eligibility Must be enrolled at least half-time (six or more credits per semester) Annual Loan Maximum Freshman (0-29 credits): $3,500 Sophomores (30-59 credits): $4,500 Juniors and Seniors (60-90+ credits): $5,500 Lifetime Loan Maximum Undergraduate students: $23,000 Repayment Begins Principal is not due while the student is enrolled at least half-time. Payments begin following a six-month grace period after graduation or if enrollment falls below half-time. Repayment Terms Repayment Terms 10 years (income based repayment plans are available, click here to find out more) Eligible for Federal Loan Deferments, Forbearances, or Loan Forgiveness Yes Eligible for Federal Consolidation Yes Interest Payments Eligible for Federal Tax Deduction Yes *Federal subsidized loan borrowers have a limit on the maximum length of time they are eligible to borrow. Students matriculated in a four year program may be eligible for federal subsidized loans for up to six years, if they have not reached their maximum aggregate loan eligibility. Students who change majors multiple times, or who drop or retake classes excessively, are most likely to be affected. To Accept Your Federal Direct Subsidized Loan: Once students receive their SU Financial Aid Award Notice listing a loan estimate, they must complete the Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Entrance Counseling session to complete the application process for a Direct Loan. Visit your MySlice Financial Aid To Do List for instructions. To Decline Your Federal Direct Subsidized Loan/Reduce the Loan Amount: If your loan(s) have not disbursed to your Bursar's account, please sign on to MySlice, then proceed to Syracuse University's online self-service system and select the "Accept/Decline" tab. Determine what loans in your award listing you wish to decline. If your loan(s) have disbursed to your Bursar's account and you would like to reduce the loan amount or decline the loan completely, students must notify the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs by completing the Loan Reduction/Cancellation Form. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Unsubsidized Direct Loans are for students to help pay for the cost of his or her education after high school. The lender is the U.S. Department of Education. Eligibility for Unsubsidized Loans is determined by the information you submit on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and according to U.S. Department of Education regulations. Read more about the difference between a Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loan . An unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan is not based on need. Interest is charged while you are enrolled at least half-time. You may choose to defer the interest, but if this option is selected, the interest will be capitalized (added to the principal amount). The U.S. Government charges a small fee, which will reduce the amount of the loan disbursed to your account. Interest Rate 3.73% (for fixed undergraduate) 5.28% for fixed graduate Loan Fees 10/1/21 - 9/30/2022 1.057% Credit Check No Eligibility Must be at least half-time (six or more credits per semester) Annual Loan Maximum* Undergraduate: up to $2,000 Graduate: up to $20,500 Lifetime Loan Maximum Dependent Students: $31,000 Independent Students: $57,500 (of which no more than $23,000 can be subsidized) Graduate Students: $138,500 (of which no more than $65,500 can be subsidized loan). This total includes undergraduate borrowing. Repayment Begins Principal is not due while the student is enrolled at least half-time or during the six-month grace period. Interest is due while in school, but can be deferred. If the interest is deferred, it will be capitalized (added to principal). Repayment Terms Repayment Terms 10 years (income based repayment plans are available, click here to find out more) Eligible for Federal Loan: Deferments, Forbearances, or Loan Forgiveness Yes Eligible for Federal Consolidation Yes Interest Payments Eligible for Federal Tax Deduction Yes *Most undergraduate students are eligible to receive up to $2,000 in unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan. Students who do not receive full eligibility for subsidized loans (based on need and student’s academic level) may receive the difference in unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan. Graduate students may be eligible for up to $20,500 in unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan.<br><br>Undergraduate students whose parents are denied the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan may apply for an additional unsubsidized Federal Direct Loan; the maximum amount is:<br><br>Freshmen and sophomores with 0-59 credits – $4,000<br>Junior and senior with 60+ credits – $5,000 To Accept Your Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan: Once students receive their SU Financial Aid Award Notice listing a loan estimate, they must complete the Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Entrance Counseling session to complete the application process for a Direct Loan. Visit your MySlice Financial Aid To Do List for instructions. To Decline Your Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan/Reduce the Loan Amount: If your loan(s) have not disbursed to your Bursar's account, please sign on to MySlice, then proceed to Syracuse University's online self-service system and select the "Accept/Decline" tab. Determine what loans in your award listing you wish to decline. If your loan(s) have disbursed to your Bursar's account and you would like to reduce the loan amount or decline the loan completely, students must notify the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs by completing the Loan Reduction/Cancellation Form. Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan (for parents) The Federal Direct PLUS (FPLUS) loan is a loan parents can obtain to help pay for the cost of education for their dependent undergraduate children. A Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) must be filed to apply. The loan funds are borrowed from the federal government. Parents may apply for an FPLUS loan at any time during the academic year. Parents are encouraged to budget their cost for the entire academic year to determine the FPLUS loan needed and then submit an FPLUS application to cover those costs. Parents must reapply for an FPLUS loan each year their child is an undergraduate student. Parents who wish to apply for an FPLUS loan will be subject to a credit check as part of the application process. Payment of principal and interest begins 60 days after the loan is fully disbursed. Upon request, payment deferment privileges may be available with some restrictions. Please note: the definition of ‘parent’ for FPLUS loan is : any biological or adoptive parent, or the parent’s spouse that reported income and assets on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Interest Rate 6.28% Loan Fees 10/1/21 - 9/30/22 4.228% Credit Check Yes (no adverse credit) Eligibility Must be at least half-time (six or more credits per semester) Annual Loan Maximum Total cost of attendance minus all aid resources and loans received. Lifetime Loan Maximum None Repayment Begins 60 days after the loan is fully disbursed. Requests to defer payments while the student is enrolled may be made during the application process. Repayment Terms Repayment Terms 10 years (income based repayment plans are available, click here to find out more) Eligible for Federal Loan: Deferments, Forbearances, or Loan Forgiveness Yes Eligible for Federal Consolidation Yes Interest Payments Eligible for Federal Tax Deduction Yes To Apply for a Federal PLUS Loan: Determine the amount of FPLUS loan that you wish to borrow using our Loan Worksheet . Go to studentloans.gov , and click on the green “Sign In” box. After signing in, select Apply for a PLUS Loan, then On the next page, under “Direct PLUS Loan Request for Parent Borrowers” select “Complete PLUS Request for Parents” Follow steps 1 – 4 to complete the online credit check Upon completing step 4, a credit decision will be displayed. Syracuse University will transmit final loan approval and disbursement request to the Department of Education. To Decline Your Federal Loan/Reduce the Loan Amount: To reduce the loan amount or decline the loan completely, students must notify the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs by completing the Loan Reduction/Cancellation Form. Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan The Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan is a long-term, fixed-rate loan borrowed by graduate students to bridge the financial gap between their educational cost of attendance and their other financial aid. Students must borrow their maximum eligibility in Federal Direct Loans before they may apply for this loan program. Eligibility is calculated by the Cost of Attendance minus other financial aid. Interest Rate 6.28% Loan Fees 10/1/21 - 9/30/22 4.228% Credit Check Yes (no adverse credit) Eligibility Must be at least half-time (six or more credits per semester) Annual Loan Maximum Total cost of attendance minus all aid resources and loans received. Lifetime Loan Maximum None Repayment Begins Payment of principal and interest begins once the loan is fully disbursed. The loan will be placed into deferment for graduate students while you are enrolled at least half-time. Repayment Terms Repayment Terms 10 years (income based repayment plans are available, click here to find out more) Eligible for Federal Loan: Deferments, Forbearances, or Loan Forgiveness Yes Eligible for Federal Consolidation Yes Interest Payments Eligible for Federal Tax Deduction Yes To Apply for a Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan: Determine the amount of FPLUS loan that you wish to borrow using our Loan Worksheet . Go online to studentloans.gov and click on the green Sign In box. After signing in, select: Apply for a PLUS loan, then On the next page, under “Direct PLUS Loan Request for Graduate/Professional Student Borrowers” select “Complete PLUS Request for Graduate/Professional Students” Follow steps 1 – 4 to complete the online credit check Upon completing step 4, a credit decision will be displayed. Complete the Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan master promissory note. Complete the Annual Student Loan Acknowledgement. Syracuse University will transmit final loan approval and disbursement request to the Department of Education. For new borrowers, an entrance counseling or loan counseling session must be completed on studentloans.gov . To Decline Your Federal Loan/Reduce the Loan Amount: To reduce the loan amount or decline the loan completely, students must notify the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs by completing the Loan Reduction/Cancellation Form . Choosing an Alternative (Private) Loan Alternative education loans are offered through banks, many credit unions, and states to help bridge the gap between financial aid and the cost of education. Alternative loans are not federally sponsored or guaranteed; therefore, the FAFSA is not required. Students should apply for alternative loans only if additional funding is needed after applying for all federal student and parent loans. Prospective borrowers may qualify for loans or other assistance under Title IV and HEA programs. The terms and conditions of these loans may be more favorable than the provisions of private education loans. Alternative loans must be certified or approved by the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs to ensure the loan does not exceed the cost of attendance minus all other financial aid. International Students: You may find a lender using the Elm Select List of lenders. Some loans may require U.S. cosigners. Graduate Students: You are eligible to borrow up to the full cost of attendance by using a combination of Federal Direct and Federal Direct Graduate PLUS loans. This makes alternative loans (with varying fees and limited forgiveness opportunities) unnecessary for most students. Interest Rate Varies by lender Loan Fees Varies by lender Credit Check Yes Cosigner Required Varies by lender, but usually yes Annual Loan Maximum Total cost of attendance minus all aid resources and loans received. Lifetime Loan Maximum Varies by lender Repayment Begins Varies by lender Repayment Terms Varies by lender Eligible for Loan Deferments or Forbearances Varies by lender Eligible for Federal Consolidation No Eligible for Alternative/Private Loan Consolidation Varies by lender Interest Payments Eligible for Federal Tax Deduction Check with a tax advisor To assist you in making your borrowing decision: Review and compare alternative lenders, and the products they offer, on the ELM Select List . This list represents lenders that Syracuse University students have used in the past. Syracuse University does not endorse any particular loan program; you may select a lender that does not appear on this list. Lending institutions are solely responsible for posting and updating their information on ELM Select. If you select a lender on the list by selecting their link, you will be connected to the lender’s website and application. Once your completed application has been credit approved, your lender will electronically transmit it to our office for certification. Once the Financial Aid Office has approved your application, the amount of your loan will appear on MySlice under My Financial Aid. As part of the application process, your lender will require that you complete a Private Education Loan Application Self-Certification form . The form can be submitted by fax, paper, or electronically depending on your lender. It requires you to list your cost of attendance, estimated financial assistance, and the difference between both. This information can be found on your MySlice under My Financial Aid. Submit this form directly to your lender, not to Syracuse University. To Decline Your Federal Loan/Reduce the Loan Amount: To reduce the loan amount or decline the loan completely, students must notify the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs by completing the Loan Reduction/Cancellation Form . Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy