Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Finance and Administration Search Menu Site Navigation Home Offices Executive Dean Finance Human Resources Operations Administrative Cores Core Leads Academic Team Operations Team Research Team Announcements Search Finance and Administration Finance and Administration Finance and Administration The Office of Finance & Administration advances the School of Public Health’s mission through exceptional strategic planning, financial stewardship, and operational guidance. We do this by fostering collaboration, enabling data-driven decisions, and innovating how we do business. Pillars of service Our work is built on the foundational pillars of Stewardship, Innovation, Governance and Collaboration. Stewardship The responsibility of supervising and maintaining financial, human capital and space resources. Innovation A fresh or reimagined approach to everyday tasks and solutions management. Governance The synergistic set of financial, personnel and operational processes and policies that meet the needs of the school. Collaboration The commitment to working with school and university partners to achieve shared goals. Find out more Offices Our offices offer exceptional strategic planning, financial stewardship, and operational guidance to the Brown University School of Public Health. Administrative Cores Our administrative cores provide critical coordinated administrative functions within the academic departments and research centers within the School of Public Health. The connection with staff and faculty is key to the success of the school. Announcements What's new from the Finance and Administration office. Policies and Guidelines Learn about protocols that guide Brown University and its School of Public Health University policies SPH Guidelines Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Offices Executive Dean Finance Human Resources Operations Administrative Cores Core Leads Academic Team Operations Team Research Team Announcements This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Finance and Administration Open details for Finance and Administration Bookmark this Page