Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Noncustodial Parent Contribution Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Basics Financial Need & Eligibility Sub Navigation In This Section Average Aid Levels Factors Considered in Brown's Need Analysis Formula Expected Family Contribution Noncustodial Parent Contribution Need-blind Admissions Noncustodial Parent Contribution To apply for Brown University Scholarship, financial information from a noncustodial parent must be submitted. Brown believes the primary responsibility for financing a student's education lies with the student and the family. As a result, a FAFSA and financial information from the noncustodial parent is required to apply for Brown University Scholarship. A noncustodial parent is not required to report information for federal student aid purposes (Pell Grant, Federal Loans, and Federal Work-Study). Only the custodial parent and current spouse, if any, must complete the FAFSA. Noncustodial Parent Unwilling to Contribute or Complete Application Brown requires the submission of noncustodial income information detailing the parent's ability, not willingness, to contribute. Should parents discontinue their financial support for reasons other than ability to pay, Brown will not assume the parental responsibility for financial support of the student. The Office of Financial Aid has a standard letter that can be mailed directly to the noncustodial parent explaining that submission of the NCPS will be used to measure but does not obligate the parent to contribute to the student's educational expenses. The letter will explain the reason for Brown's request. To request this letter be sent by our office, contact us with the noncustodial parent's full name and address. Students should make a reasonable effort to gain support from a noncustodial parent. If this is not possible, students should make an appointment with a financial aid counselor who can determine if the circumstance warrants an exception. A counselor also can advise on student loan borrowing options to help manage this difficult situation. Waivers Waivers of noncustodial information are granted in very limited circumstances. Examples include, but are not limited to, abuse, neglect, addiction, and/or other related concerns. If you believe that your situation fits one of these special situations, please download and complete the Noncustodial Parent Waiver Petition in the Forms section of our website. Do not leave any questions blank. A petition will not be considered ready for review until we receive at least two, third-party statements (from someone other than a family member), a statement from the student, and a statement from the custodial parent along with the waiver form. Note: A noncustodial parent's (short-term or long-term) unwillingness to provide the student with financial support is not sufficient justification to file this petition. Confidentiality Only Brown’s financial aid officers will review the information submitted to our office. However, Brown holds students accountable for all University matters and the Financial Aid Office routinely shares financial matters with students. Parents who do not want their information shared with the student must notify the Office of Financial Aid in writing. Expected Contribution from Noncustodial Parent The student may contact our office to request a breakdown of the calculated contributions for the custodial and noncustodial parent. We can send a letter directly to the noncustodial parent providing information about the cost of attendance and the expected noncustodial contribution. Note: We are prohibited from discussing the parent contribution and the income/household information of one separated/divorced parent with another. Parents Recently Separated or Divorced If your parents were married when they completed your FAFSA and have recently separated or divorced, you may request that your financial aid eligibility be re-evaluated by completing the Financial Aid Appeal Form. This form can be downloaded from the Forms Section of our website. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Noncustodial Parent Contribution Open details for Noncustodial Parent Contribution Bookmark this Page