Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Search Financial Aid Bio Med Master's Programs Our office can help students navigate through the complexities of financing their education with federal and private loans. Breadcrumb Home Apply for Aid Sub Navigation In This Section MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Bio Med Master's Programs Our office can help students navigate through the complexities of financing their education with federal and private loans. The Warren Alpert Medical School (AMS) Office of Financial Aid can assist students who may not have the financial resources to meet the full cost of completing their Master’s Program. We can help students navigate through the process of financing their education with federal and private loans. We encourage students to prepare a budget to manage educational and living expenses and live as frugally as possible during this time to minimize borrowing. Students are able to finance all of their program costs by borrowing through two types of federal loans, the Unsubsidized Direct Loan and the Graduate PLUS Loan. The first step in securing federal loan funding is to complete the FAFSA providing prior-prior year income and present-day asset and household information. Because Graduate students are considered to be Independent of parents by the federal government when applying for federal loans, you need only complete the FAFSA with your own income and asset information. Be sure to use the Alpert Medical School's code for the FAFSA which is E00059. FAFSA Application The cost of attendance for the Masters Programs that are administered by the AMS Office of Financial Aid can be found on our Cost of Attendance and Budgeting webpage. The updated cost of attendance for all Master’s Programs are available in early April. The cost of attendance will provide an example and estimate of the expenses you will incur while enrolled in your program. This includes the tuition and fees charged by Brown University, programmatic fees and estimated living expenses for the months in which you are enrolled in coursework. 2022-2023 Cost of Attendance https://www.youtube.com/embed/uUPQRtIhIEs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Bio Med Master's Programs Open details for Bio Med Master's Programs Bookmark this Page