Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Understand Aid Work-Study Work-Study promotes part-time, hourly employment for financially eligible students, who “earn while they learn” on campus. Many departments are eager to hire student employees, and can provide positions relevant to their degrees and hours that fit their academic schedules. Participants are responsible for finding a job designated for Work-Study students, either through job postings or with the help of the University Career Center, and for meeting hiring requirements. While all employers must pay KU campus minimum wage, pay varies depending on the job and an applicant’s qualifications. The total amount awarded is disbursed on a regular basis through paychecks from the employer. Students and employers are responsible for monitoring the status of a work-study award. Once the earnings limit has been reached, eligibility ends and employment must be terminated or switched to regular student hourly payroll. (Academic-year earnings are exempt from student contribution calculations on the following year's FAFSA.) Federal Work-Study To be considered for limited Federal Work-Study (FWS) funds, a student must meet all federal student aid eligibility criteria and Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) standards, then file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Undergraduate FWS recipients may work up to 30 hours per week when classes are in session and 40 hours when not in session, including summer. Hours for graduate-level recipients are governed by this KU policy. To be eligible for Summer Federal Work-Study, a student must be enrolled and have filed a FAFSA for the previous academic year (the summer term is considered part of the previous academic year for aid purposes). Current students interested in this program should contact their financial aid counselor or submit a Federal Work-Study Request. Important FWS Dates May 28, 2022: First day to use summer funds. Aug. 6, 2022: Last day to use summer funds. August 7, 2022: First day to use 2022-23 funds. Jan. 7, 2022: Last day to use “fall only” award funds for 2022-23. Jan. 18, 2023: First day to use “spring only” award funds. May 27, 2023: Last day to use academic-year funds. Kansas Career Work-Study The Kansas Career Work-Study (KCWS) program is a state-funded program intended to provide employers with incentives to hire KU students in career-related positions. To participate, a student must be a resident of the State of Kansas enrolled in a minimum of 6 hours at a GPA of +2.0, have a declared major related to the work performed, and have a FAFSA on file. Employers interested in participating must submit an application to the University Career Center (UCC). More information can be found on the UCC website. Additional resources Scholarships Select to follow link Grants Select to follow link Loans Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.