Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Scholarships & Taxes Student Tax Information Student Tax Information Menu Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes 1098T Information & FAQ Education Tax Credits NRA Students Federal Tax Information Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding ALERT - IRS SCAM PHONE CALLS The IRS will not call and threaten you with arrest, require payment of taxes in a certain way, or request credit or debit card information over the phone. If you actually become a victim of such a scam on our campus, please file a non-emergency police report with the UWPD, by calling 206-685-UWPD (8973). If you have further questions, please contact the UWPD Community Outreach Unit at 206-616-0873. Student Fiscal Services monitors student tax information at the University of Washington. This information includes data for use in claiming educational tax credits and deductions that you have paid for tuition and fees. In addition, the UW provides information to help you determine if your scholarships, fellowships, grants or tuition reductions are taxable. The UW cannot provide individual tax advice. If you have questions, you should consult your tax advisor about your specific circumstances. Scholarships, fellowships, grants and tuition reductions are not considered taxable income if they are used solely for qualified educational expenses. Any amount used for personal or non-qualified expenses are subject to tax. For more details refer to the IRS Publication 970 - Scholarships and Fellowships. Washington State's Guaranteed Education Tuition (GET) program is a 529 qualified tuition program according to IRS regulations. This program allows individuals to prepay for student's college educational expenses. Funds from the GET program are used to reduce qualified educational expenses. The amounts used to pay these expenses are not taxable or reported to the IRS on the 1098T forms that the UW provides students for filing their tax returns. How to update a Social Security Number on your student account record Every Year, the UW prepares and issues a 1098T tax form to most students. A student’s tax ID# (Social Security Number) is included in the 1098T form when the UW submits this information to the IRS. To help us report the correct information, please provide us your missing Social Security Number by performing the following: • Bring a copy of your Social Security card or your Tax ID number to our office - Room 129 Schmitz Hall, Seattle, WA 98195, or you can fax a copy of your SS# or TIN# to our office at 206-685-2942. If you are not able to bring your card in person and do not have access to a fax machine, you can also submit via Docusign by signing in with your UW credentials. • If you cannot find your Social Security card, you can bring a copy of your current tax return form to our office. • If you cannot find your Social Security card or don’t have a tax return form, you can fill out the IRS W-9S form and bring it or fax it to our office. Please do not send social security number to us by email. Student Tax Resources Watch the PowerPoint presentation below: US Residents Graduate, Professional and Law Students Non-US Residents For questions, please email taxquest@uw.edu for assistance. Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes 1098T Information & FAQ Education Tax Credits NRA Students Federal Tax Information Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding 1098-T Tax Form Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA