Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Taxes Two things in life are certain—taxes is one of them. If you plan to work and earn income, then you should plan to pay taxes. Navigating the federal tax code will be an important part of your financial education as you learn about the concept of taxes, IRS regulations, and tax breaks and credits for which you might be eligible. While we may provide a general overview of the tax code, you should visit the IRS website or consult a tax professional if you have specific questions about your personal taxes. How do I pay taxes? Typically, you do not pay taxes once a year at tax time—you pay taxes all year via deductions from your paycheck. The amount deducted depends on the number of withholding allowances you claim. As a general rule: more allowances = less tax deducted, and fewer allowances = more tax deducted. At tax time, your tax liability is calculated based on your income and any adjustments to that income. If you have not paid your tax liability over the year, you still owe tax; if you have overpaid, you will receive a refund. Do I need to file a tax return? If you earned income in excess of the limit set by the IRS, then you will have to file taxes for that year. The Internal Revenue Service offers an interactive tool which can help determine if you are required to file. Even if you aren't required to file a return, you may want to file. If too much tax was taken out of your income, for example, you would be eligible for a tax refund that you otherwise would not receive by not filing. How do I file a tax return? Most students who are US citizens or permanent residents should be able to file a tax return for free, using IRS free software resources. If you are an international student, contact the Davis International Center. Taxable Scholarship In some cases your scholarship may be considered "taxable income" by the federal government—that is, if you file a tax return, you may have to report a portion of your scholarship as income you earned in that year. Typically, scholarship funding that goes toward "qualified costs" such as tuition, fees, books, and supplies is nontaxable; scholarship funding that goes toward "nonqualified expenses" such as room, board, and other non-course-related expenses may be taxable. Most U.S. citizens and permanent residents will receive a Form 1098-T from the University mailed to your home address. This form states both the amount of tuition billed to you and the amount of scholarship aid you received in the calendar year. If your scholarship aid is less than tuition, then there is no taxable scholarship. If your scholarship aid is greater than tuition, then the excess amount may be considered taxable income. If you track your textbook purchases during the calendar year, you may be able to subtract these expenses from the excess amount before reporting as income. If you have specific questions about determining taxable scholarship, contact the University Tax Department at tax@princeton.edu. Tax documents provided by the University Depending on whether you worked for the University, received financial aid, or were funded for other programs, the University may provide any of the tax documents below: Form Information Contained Delivery Method Office to Contact with Questions W-2 Wage Earnings TigerHub Payroll (payroll@princeton.edu) 1098-T Qualified Tuition, Payments, and Scholarship Postal Mail Student Accounts Office (studacct@princeton.edu) 1099-MISC Prize Payments over $600 Postal Mail Financial Service Center (finance@princeton.edu) Email to Student Non-Qualified Payments through SAFE Email Financial Service Center (finance@princeton.edu) IRS.gov learn more Full content of https://www.irs.gov/ Student Tax Information learn more Full content of https://finance.princeton.edu/risk-management-tax-rents-mortgages/tax-compliance/student-tax-information Scholarships & Fellowships learn more Full content of https://finance.princeton.edu/risk-management-tax-rents-mortgages/tax-compliance/student-tax-information/scholarships-and Taxes for International Students learn more Full content of https://davisic.princeton.edu/taxes-social-security/tax-season-information Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746