https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Returning Undergraduates | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Returning Undergraduates The financial aid application process is annual. All applicants, including HOPE/Zell Miller scholarship recipients, must reapply for financial aid each year. At Georgia Tech, the academic and financial aid year is comprised of the fall, spring, and summer semesters. Failure to reapply for aid will result in a loss of financial aid for that year and possibly subsequent years. Steps to Reapply Returning undergraduate students reapplying for federal and institutional financial aid must complete the following applications annually: Step 1: Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) You must complete the Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) if you want to be considered for federal or state aid, need-based institutional aid, or renewal of a scholarship you received in previous years. Please note: Georgia residents who are only seeking the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarship programs are required to complete the GT App annually. Students applying for financial aid for the Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022 semesters should complete the 2021-22 GT App. Students applying for financial aid for the Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023 semesters should complete the 2022-23 GT App. Click here if you have difficulty logging into the GT application. Submit the GT App Step 2: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) If you wish to be considered for federal aid or need-based institutional funds this academic year, you must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Georgia residents who are applying for the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarship ONLY may complete the Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) instead of the FAFSA. The GT App is also required. Please note: Income earned under a cooperative education program (co-op) offered by a postsecondary institution is not used to determine students’ Expected Family Contribution (EFC), therefore co-op earnings will not negatively affect your eligibility for need-based aid. Be sure to include your co-op earnings on the FAFSA under the Student’s Additional Financial Information section. Students applying for financial aid for the Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022 semesters should complete the 2021-22 FAFSA using their 2019 tax information. Students applying for financial aid for the Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023 semesters should complete the 2022-23 FAFSA using their 2020 tax information. Georgia Tech's Title IV school code is 001569. Submit the FAFSA Step 3: Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) – Georgia Residents Only Georgia residents seeking to reapply for the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarships ONLY for this academic year are required to complete the GT App but are not required to complete the FAFSA, and may instead choose to submit the Georgia Student Finance Application (GSFAPPS) in lieu of completing the FAFSA. Students applying for financial aid for the Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022 semesters should complete the 2021-22 GSFAPPS. Students applying for financial aid for the Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023 semesters should complete the 2022-23 GSFAPPS. Submit the GSFAPPS Important Dates and Deadlines All financial aid applications above, including any additional requested documentation, must be received and complete by the priority filing deadline on January 31 in order to be considered an on-time applicant. In order to be considered for need-based institutional aid or to be eligible to receive a scholarship you received in a previous year, you MUST submit all applications and documents by the January 31 deadline. If forms are completed after the deadline, you will only be considered for entitlements (ex: federal financial aid and HOPE/Zell Miller Scholarship). Please contact your Financial Aid Adviser for questions or additional considerations. Next Steps Review terms for maintaining eligibility to receive financial aid, including enrollment requirements and satisfactory academic progress. Maintaining Aid Eligibility Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology