Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Search Financial Aid External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities External scholarships and loans can help significantly reduce the financial impact of attending medical school. Breadcrumb Home Funding Sub Navigation In This Section Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities External scholarships and loans can help significantly reduce the financial impact of attending medical school. External Scholarships are offered through organizations outside The Warren Alpert Medical School community. Financial aid applications are located on our website and on the Helpful External Scholarship Website Listings such as SPIN. External Scholarships Page External Loans are offered through organizations outside The Warren Alpert Medical School community and are usually low-interest loans offering favorable terms to qualified students. Our external loan database is worth a look! External Loans Page Federal Scholarship Programs can reduce and, in some cases, eliminate debt altogether. Please familiarize yourself with our federal scholarship program listing. The Yellow Ribbon Scholarship Program is available to eligible veteran or dependent of an eligible veteran. Federal Scholarship Programs Loan Repayment Programs offer fourth-year medical students and residents financial assistance in exchange for serving underserved medical communities. Loan Repayment Programs AAMC Repayment/Forgiveness and Scholarship Programs is a searchable database and provides detailed information about many of the state and federal programs available to medical professionals. AAMC Repayment Database "The best return on investment I'll have in my life" There are several scholarship and loan options available to students that are not federally or institutionally funded. Read one of our medical student's scholarship success stories to help with your search. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Open details for External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Bookmark this Page