https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Contacting Our Office | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Contacting Our Office Email is the best way to connect with our staff. Utilizing email helps us better serve you, giving our staff an opportunity to research your question before responding. Email enables us to provide you with a more thorough answer in our single response (saving you the hassle of back and forth emails!). When contacting us via email, it is critical to include your GTID# on all correspondence to ensure a timely response. Did You Know? Many financial aid questions can be solved using our self-service portal. Avoid the wait and check your account in OSCAR to review any outstanding items and possibly resolve your issue. If you find, after checking your account, you still need assistance, including this information in your email will speed up the process and help us to best assist you in a timely manner. How to Access Requirements Log in to oscar.gatech.edu. Select Secured Access Login. Select Student Services & Financial Aid. Select Financial Aid. Select My Requirements and Eligibility. Select the appropriate aid year. Contacting Our Office Contact Form (GT account required) Georgia Tech students and those with a GT account are encouraged to submit questions via our webform (see link below). This form streamlines your question(s) and enables several staff members to work together and provide timely responses. If you prefer to speak to a staff member by phone, you can request a call back on your form submission. You will need your GT account and password to complete the form. Here are a few tips to help you receive a timely response from our staff: Before submitting your question, first check your account in OSCAR as requirements update regularly in your student portal. ALWAYS include your 9-digit GTid number in the webform—we can’t help you without it. State the specifics of your question(s) and what needs to be resolved. Do not submit documents containing tax information or social security numbers through this form, as we cannot accept unsecure information and/or documents (see below for additional instructions for document submission). Contact Form Email Those who do not have a GT account may use the following email addresses to contact us depending on the nature of your question. Topic Email Address Financial aid verification finaidverification@gatech.edu General questions finaid@gatech.edu Meeting with a Staff Member Schedule a private consultation to speak with a member of our staff! Private consultations are held virtually Monday – Friday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Email us at finaid@gatech.edu to schedule your consultation. Submitting Documents When submitting documents, always include your Georgia Tech ID number on all documents. Documents and checks should be in a sealed envelope with the student’s full name and GTID printed on the outside of the envelope. There are four ways to submit documentation: Upload any necessary document via your student account in OSCAR. Fax documents via our secure server at 404.894.7412. Mail documents to our mailing address: Georgia Institute of Technology Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid 225 North Avenue, NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0460 Documents can be dropped off Monday – Friday, between 9 am and 4 p.m. on the third floor of the Bill Moore Student Success Center. Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology