Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Applying for Aid Prospective Students Transfer Students Current Students Non-Traditional Students Readmitted Students Terms and Conditions Satisfactory Academic Progress Cost Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Types of Aid Donor Scholarships Incoming Student Scholarships Additional Scholarship Resources Florida Aid Programs Veterans & ROTC Loans Resources How Financial Aid Works Financial Aid TV Undergraduate Forms FAQs Money Management Program News Contact Us Graduate Professional Applying for Aid Types of Aid Cost Resources Administrative Contact Us Student Employment On Campus Programs Off Campus Programs Find a Student Job Policies & Procedures FAQs Applying for Aid Cost Types of Aid Resources Graduate Professional Student Employment Search Applying for Aid Prospective Students Transfer Students Current Students Non-Traditional Students Readmitted Students Terms and Conditions Satisfactory Academic Progress Cost Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Types of Aid Donor Scholarships Incoming Student Scholarships Additional Scholarship Resources Florida Aid Programs Veterans & ROTC Loans Resources How Financial Aid Works Financial Aid TV Undergraduate Forms FAQs Money Management Program News Contact Us Graduate Professional Applying for Aid Types of Aid Cost Resources Administrative Contact Us Student Employment On Campus Programs Off Campus Programs Find a Student Job Policies & Procedures FAQs Cost Net Price Calculator Loan Calculator Applying for Aid Cost Types of Aid Resources Graduate Professional Student Employment Contact Us Home Cost of Attendance AAA Cost of Attendance 2022-2023 Cost of Attendance Expenses Undergraduate On Campus Undergraduate Off-Campus or University Village With Parent/Relative Tuition (1) $55,440 $55,440 $55,440 Fees $1,754 $1,754 $1,754 Housing and Meals $16,530 $21,150 $7,050 Books $1,070 $1,070 $1,070 Personal $2,346 $2,346 $2,346 Transportation $1,500 $1,500 $1,500 Total Cost of Attendance: $78,640 $83,260 $69,160 1) The Cost of Attendance values shown are based on assumed traditional, full-time enrollment. Amounts may be prorated based on a student’s actual enrollment after add/drop. (See definition of Census Date/Fixed Enrollment Date below.) 2) The Bachelor of General Studies and the Accelerated Bachelor of Science of Nursing program tuition and fee costs may differ. Please refer to the academic department for more information. 2022-2023 University-Sponsored Health Insurance Students enrolled in six or more credit hours per semester are required to obtain adequate health insurance. U.S. citizens can waive the University-sponsored insurance. Expense Undergraduate On Campus Undergraduate Off-Campus or University Village With Parent/Relative University Health Insurance $3,593 $3,593 $3,593 Total Estimated Cost of Attendance with Insurance: $82,233 $86,853 $72,753 Note: All international students are required to enroll in University-sponsored health insurance regardless of credit load. Need Determination Your completed FAFSA and CSS Profile will be reviewed to determine your financial need. Financial need is the remaining balance once the estimated family contribution has been subtracted from the cost of attendance: (COA – EFC = Financial Need) Cost of Attendance (COA) COA includes direct billed charges such as tuition, fees, and room and board if the student is in on-campus housing or the University Village. COA also includes indirect-billed expenses a student may incur such as allowances for off-campus housing or living with parent/relative as well as additional allowances for books, supplies, transportation, and personal expenses. Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) A student’s family is expected to contribute to their education. A dependent student’s family includes parents and/or stepparents. Independent undergraduate students' families include the student and spouse, if applicable. FATV: What is Cost of Attendance Understanding Costs and Financial Eligibility Open All Tabs Paying for College Once you receive your financial aid award notification, please check your CaneLink account in the “View Financial Aid” section to see your actual cost of attendance. You should get a clear sense of your anticipated costs, and then formulate a plan for paying for them by putting together a budget exploring all of the options available to you. You can pay for college using your savings, help from family, earnings from working a full-time or part-time job, scholarships, or financial aid programs. There are also loan programs to consider, but these need to be repaid, so be prudent and borrow only what you need. Useful Links Loan Calculator Net Price Calculator Census Date/Fixed Enrollment Date Each fall and spring semester the college will freeze enrollment at the end of the add/drop period. This date is the Financial Aid Census Date. All adjustments to the student’s course schedule must be made by the end of the add/drop period to avoid problems with repeat courses or disbursement issues due to insufficient enrollment. Most federal financial aid requires at least half-time enrollment, including Federal Pell Grant and Federal Direct Loans. Most institutional financial aid requires full-time enrollment, including need-based UM grants and merit scholarships. Adjustments to financial aid for enrollment changes after the Census Date will not be done except for Florida Bright Futures and in the case of a complete withdrawal from the University. There are no exceptions to this policy. Housing All non-local first-year students are required to live in University housing for two academic semesters, as long as space is available. This policy does not apply to first-year students living with parents or legal guardians in Miami-Dade or Broward counties. Specific housing rates and housing application instructions are available on the Housing and Residential Life website. Meals Meal costs are based on the average meal plan price set by Dining Services. If the chosen meal plan costs less than the amount budgeted, the remaining funds should be used to buy food outside of the dining halls. All undergraduate students living on campus must purchase a meal plan as part of their housing contract. Students who fail to choose a meal plan upon enrollment in housing will automatically be signed up for the 14-meal plan option. Transportation Transportation costs are based on an average cost of students getting to and from campus. Health Insurance All full-time students are required to have comprehensive health insurance coverage, whether through the University’s plan or a personal plan. You must choose to either accept or waive the University plan coverage and fee as soon as possible. International students must purchase the medical insurance offered through the University of Miami at the time of registration unless they provide proof of agency or government-sponsored coverage that has been reviewed and approved by the University Student Health Center prior to registration. The annual premium for coverage through UM may be added to each student’s invoice. For more information, visit the Student Health Center’s page. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Financial Assistance and Employment P.O. Box 248187 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-6000 305-284-6000 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices