https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor After You Graduate | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us After You Graduate Exit Loan Counseling Any student who is graduating or withdrawing from Georgia Tech and has taken out a Student Loan through the Direct Loan program must complete Exit Counseling. If you have taken out a Federal Direct student loan at Georgia Tech, please complete Exit Counseling online. Exit Counseling is required for each degree completed (i.e. Undergraduate/Graduate) You should email your financial aid advisor if you have any questions. Our advising hours are 9:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Institute holidays. Federal Loan Repayment Repayment of principal and interest begins 60 days after the loan is fully disbursed. Students now have the option to defer payments while their student is in school and can also opt to let the interest accrue until leaving school. However, any interest that accrues from the date of disbursement is added to the outstanding loan balance through a process called capitalization. Please visit the Bursar’s website for more information regarding Institutional loan repayment and servicing. <p>Video not supported.</p> Loan Consolidation The majority of lenders offer student loan consolidation programs to student borrowers. Careful research and planning should precede a decision to consolidate your outstanding student loans. Please refer to our summary below of the advantages and disadvantages of a loan consolidation program. The Department of Education maintains a website that contains more detailed information regarding loan consolidation. Advantages There are certain advantages with loan consolidation, including: lower interest rate lower monthly payments flexible repayment terms one payment to one bank Disadvantages There are also certain disadvantages with loan consolidation, including: more interest paid over the life of the loan with an extended repayment period borrower benefits can change (deferment, grace period, etc.) a consolidation loan cannot be reversed Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology