Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Financial Aid Main menu Apply for Aid Prospective Applicants Prospective Applicants International Prospective Applicants Undocumented Current Students Current Students International/Undocumented Graduate Students Special Circumstances Appealing Your Aid Decision Family Circumstances Additional Aid Possibilities Residence Hall Positions Changes to your Student Contribution Living Off Campus Study Abroad/Off Campus Programs Summer/Winter Session Consortium Agreements Emergency Funds Types of Aid Grants and Scholarships Work Loans Cost to Attend Value of a Cornell Education Financial Aid Calculator Cornell’s Commitment to Access and Affordability Financial Aid Eligibility Financial Aid Initiatives Policies Consumer Information Course Repeats and Financial Aid Eligibility Eligible U.S. Citizenship Status, Eligible Non-Citizens, Undocumented Students Federal Satisfactory Academic Progress Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Federal Verification Leaves and Withdrawals Lending Code of Conduct New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) Satisfactory Academic Progress Prorated Tuition Student Rights and Responsibilities Summer/Winter Session Aid Tax Withholding Veterans Education Benefits Policy Consent to Release Student Information Forms Videos How to Find a Job File your FAFSA College Board's IDOC Service Understanding Your Award Letter Financial Aid Appeal Financial Aid Overview Completing the CSS Profile Ayuda Financiera de Cornell Financial Aid Application Process Orientation Information You are here Home » Apply for Aid » Prospective International Applicants print share Facebook Twitter Prospective International Applicants Cornell University practices need-aware international admissions and provides financial aid to admitted students and undocumented students who apply for financial aid and have demonstrated financial need. International applicants who indicate on their applications that they will not be applying for financial aid (and who are admitted) will not be eligible to apply for financial aid at any time as an undergraduate at Cornell. Applicants who anticipate the need for financial assistance at any point during their undergraduate course of study at Cornell must apply for aid when they apply for admission. Follow the instructions and deadlines below. If you are an undocumented applicant, please refer to these deadlines. Current Cornell students who receive international financial aid should see the re-application requirements. Financial Aid Deadlines: Please pay close attention to the deadlines. Late applications may not be considered. Spring Transfer - Aid is not available for Spring 2022 international transfer applicants. Early Decision – November 1, 2021 Regular Decision – January 2, 2022 Fall Transfer – March 15, 2022 Required Information: Complete the College Scholarship Service CSS Profile CSS Profile is found at https://cssprofile.collegeboard.org/ Cornell’s undergraduate CSS Code is 2098 If parents are divorced, separated, or were never married, your noncustodial parent will need to complete a separate CSS Profile. Each parent will access their CSS Profile with different College Board log-in credentials. College Board recommends that the student and the custodial parent start the CSS Profile application first. Although the noncustodial parent can start the application at any time, the noncustodial parent will not be able to complete the application until the student selects a college that requires the CSS Profile from the noncustodial parent. To keep financial information private, the student and parents should not share their College Board account passwords with each other. If the whereabouts of your noncustodial parent are unknown, or if you have extenuating circumstances regarding your situation, complete the Noncustodial Parent Waiver Petition. College Board has created interactive instructions to assist you. Applicants who are unable to submit the online CSS Profile should contact us via e-mail at intl-finaid@cornell.edu well in advance and prior to the stated application deadlines CSS Profile fee waiver requests must be sent to intl-finaid@cornell.edu by the stated application deadlines Important to note: Applicants who have dual U.S. citizenship should follow the instructions for U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Applicants should be prepared to submit additional information to Cornell University upon request, including but not limited to: parent and student 2018 and/or 2019 income information, noncustodial parent income and asset information, and a photocopy of your passport or citizenship documents. We practice need-aware international admissions and the offer of admission is directly linked to your ability to meet expenses. International candidates whose families have the financial means to afford educational costs are encouraged not to apply for financial aid. Review some Frequently Asked Questions regarding international financial aid at Cornell. If you have further questions or concerns, please contact us via email. The Internal Revenue Service classifies grant aid in excess of tuition and mandatory fees as taxable income and requires Cornell to withhold 14% in taxes if you are a non-resident alien and not eligible for exemption from taxes under a tax treaty. My Undocumented Life provides resources about scholarships for undocumented residents. Apply for Aid Prospective Applicants Prospective Applicants International Prospective Applicants Undocumented Current Students Current Students International/Undocumented Graduate Students Calculator Contact Us Office Hours: Monday-Thursday from 9:00am - 1:00pm & 2:00pm - 4:00pm Phone Hours: Monday-Thursday from 10:00am - 1:00pm & 2:00pm - 4:00pm Schedule Counselor Appointments: Cornell Chatter Website Feedback 203 Day Hall, Cornell University Tel: 607-255-5145 | finaid@cornell.edu Secure fax: 607-255-6329 | Secure Online Upload If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, Contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment