Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Tuition & Fees State of Washington 529 Plans State of Washington 529 Plans Menu Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans WA529 College Savings Plans offers two kinds of 529 plans, Investment Savings plans and Prepaid Tuition plans. Families can choose to save with either or both plans and they can be used for qualifying education expenses at nearly any college, university, technical or community colleges in the U.S. and around the world, as well as qualifying apprenticeship programs in the U.S. DreamAhead College Investment Plan, allows you to pick an investment option and save money based on the market’s performance. The Guaranteed Education Tuition Program (GET), allows you to purchase units at a set price and use them in the future to avoid long-term tuition inflation and stock market risk. Using your GET Account or DreamAhead Account to pay for qualifying expenses is easy. Account owners can request payments to be made directly to the school or pay the qualifying expenses first and request reimbursement from their account. 529 Funds can be used to repay up to $10,000 of existing student loan debt, to learn more about the Secure Act click here. To pay the school directly: GET Account Owners must sign in to your account, find the Using Units section, and you will be guided through the process. Be sure to include the student’s full name on the request. Or if you prefer paper, you can fill out a Direct Payment Request form and submit it to the GET Program. DreamAhead Account Owners must sign in to your account, where you can make a withdrawal directly to the school or your bank account. Be sure to include the student’s full name and student ID on the withdrawal form. Please allow 2 weeks for payments to be processed. After your payment has been received, the University will apply the funds to the student’s account to pay tuition, fees or housing charges. Since we receive GET funds via a unique process, we will typically have them 2-3 days after the request, but it is always best to request early Resources For more information about your 529 account or if you have further questions about how to make a payment, please contact the appropriate program. GET 1-800-955-2318 https://get.wa.gov/ DreamAhead 1-844-529-5845 https://dreamahead.wa.gov/ Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Quick Links Pay by credit card View tuition statement and pay tuition Sign for new Direct Parent PLUS loan Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA