Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search THE UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS A KU degree is a valuable investment — one the Financial Aid & Scholarships staff can help you fulfill. We’re here to inform and advise you as you prepare for and pursue a successful career as a Jayhawk. MARK THESE DATES Jan. 14 Spring excess financial aid refunds begin Feb. 1 2022-23 FAFSA KU Priority Deadline Mar. 1 Extended freshman scholarship deadline For future Jayhawks Use our Net Price Calculator to see a personalized picture of your costs — and what you may earn in aid. The most essential step to receiving that assistance is filing your Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Should questions arise, reach out to your financial aid counselor. Calculate costs Apply for aid Get in touch Know the stats $391M awarded annually in financial aid 69% of undergraduates receive financial aid $49K average salary within a year of graduation For current Jayhawks Receiving aid is a multistep process — one we can help guide you through. The first step is to file your Free Application for Federal Student Aid every year, which is key to obtaining state and federal dollars toward your education. Once you’ve accepted any awarded funds, we can help apply it to your costs. File the FAFSA Obtain your aid Pay your bill Specific student needs The kind of Jayhawk you are may involve special financial considerations and individual funding arrangements. For information that addresses your specific needs, select an available option or contact our office. For students in need of emergency resources, visit the Emergency Aid Network website. Emergency Aid Network Graduate students Law students Pharmacy students Student athletes KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.