Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Breadcrumb Home Types of Financial Aid Other Types of Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Summer Session Winter Session Summer Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid If you are taking summer courses at Brown, you may qualify for a Brown "Summer Grant." The amount of the grant will depend on the amount of University Scholarship you receive during the academic year and the number of summer courses you are taking. Pell-eligible students also may be eligible for a Pell Grant if they are taking summer classes. In addition, loan funds may be available to supplement Grants in meeting the cost of course fees and other living expenses. If interested in loans, please contact the Office of Financial Aid as soon as possible to discuss your options. Applying for a Summer Session Grant Brown Undergraduates who receive University Scholarship during the academic year will be eligible for partial summer course fee remission. You should receive an email in the Spring letting you know the amount you are eligible for. Summer Grant will be awarded prior to the start of summer classes. If you were on an LOA during the academic year, you may still be eligible for grant funding, however, you will need to contact the Office of Financial Aid for further information. If you are graduating in May, the summer grant will not be available to you as you will have finished your undergraduate studies. Loan Eligibility for Summer Session Expenses The Summer at Brown Loan Application will be available on May 16th via the Forms section of our website. If you are interested in borrowing loans to help pay your summer educational expenses, contact the Office of Financial Aid to discuss options. Simply notify the Office of Financial Aid in writing via email if you do not want loans after you have received or requested them. In order to be eligible for a federal loan, you must be enrolled at least half time (two classes). Enrollment Changes The Office of Financial Aid will be aware of enrollment adjustments after you change your registration in Banner. Please note that you cannot borrow loans during the summer session if you are only enrolled in one class. Also, withdrawing from Summer Session will result in a recalculation of aid; students who received Summer Grant will not be eligible to retain Summer Grant above the final tuition charges. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Summer Financial Aid Open details for Summer Financial Aid Bookmark this Page