Skip to content Financial Aid Optional line 2 - add two-line-signature to body class to display Menu Search form Search term Undergraduate Basics Graduate Basics Managing My Aid Loans Information for... Forms Parents Faculty / Staff Financial Aid Making a world-class education possible We meet the full demonstrated need, without loans, for every admitted undergrad who qualifies for financial assistance. Announcements Financial Aid Office Early Closure on May 27th The Stanford Financial Aid Office will be open on Friday, May 27th, from 8am with an early closure of 3pm in observance of the Memorial Day holiday weekend. Regular business hours will resume on Tuesday, May 31st. Applying for Aid Application requirements, forms and deadlines. Note: We cannot confirm receipt of financial aid application requirements for admission applicants until after admission decisions have been released. Undergraduate Students Graduate Students In the Spotlight Finances and Your Stanford Education Leaders of the Financial Aid Office, Student Services Center, and University Bursar's Office discuss Stanford's financial aid program and what to expect regarding finances as an undergraduate at Stanford. Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Eligibility Changes For a limited period of time, federal student loan borrowers may receive credit for past payments made on loans that otherwise would not qualify for PSLF. Meet Cardy the Tree Using our chatbot makes finding answers to your financial aid questions as easy as one, two, "tree"! COVID-19 Student Loan Repayment Pause Extended through August 31 The pause on monthly payments and interest accrual due to the COVID-19 emergency has been extended through August 31, 2022. Contact your loan servicer to ensure that you are ready to resume making monthly payments on time. Estimate Aid & Cost See how affordable a Stanford undergraduate education can be for you. Quick Cost Estimator Net Price Calculator Send Documents Use the secure document upload form to send your completed PDF files online to the Financial Aid Office. The upload form is unavailable due to maintenance at this time. Please check back later. Document Upload Form Upload Form is Offline Calendar Summer Quarter Academic Calendar Connect with us Visit Campus Visitor Information Campus Map Apply Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Resources Gateway for New Grad Students Student Services Center Mind Over Money Financial Aid Offices Graduate School of Business Law School School of Medicine FAQ AXESS Contact Us Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.