https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Receive Your Financial Aid Award | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Receive Your Financial Aid Award The OSFA will credit funds from financial aid awards to your account beginning three days before the start of classes, according to a schedule updated each term. The majority of funds are credited by electronic funds transfer, so the money will automatically transfer to your student account. For outside scholarships, the donor may send students a check made payable to the student or to Georgia Tech and the student jointly. In these cases, students must endorse these checks to Georgia Tech and submit them to the OSFA. If the outside donor sends a check to the Institute directly, the student will be notified to visit the Bursar’s Office to endorse the check before it can be applied. In order to be applied to the student's balance prior to the Fee Payment deadline, checks must be received a month before the deadline. Checks received after this date will still be processed in the order that they are received. If a credit balance exists after all financial aid has been posted, the bursar will deposit these funds by means of direct deposit into the student's designated bank account, if the student has enrolled in direct deposit on OSCAR. Visit the Bursar's Office website for more information on direct deposit. Payment Deadlines Funds from financial aid programs that are used to pay expenses owed the Institute must be deposited into the student's account by the fee payment deadlines below. A deferment (referred to as "anticipated financial aid" on the student invoice statement on OSCAR) can be used as a place-holder to guarantee enrollment. Please note: any expenses not covered by financial aid awards or deferments must be paid by the fee payment deadline. Summer 2022 Anticipated Aid - April 5, 2022 Funds Credited to Student - May 16, 2022 Bursar Refunds - May 17, 2022 Fee Payment Deadline - May 23, 2022 Summer 2022 First-Year Students Anticipated Aid - June 6, 2022 Funds Credited to Student - June 21, 2022 Bursar Refunds - June 21, 2022 Fee Payment Deadline - June 23, 2022 Fall 2022 Anticipated Aid - July 11, 2022 Funds Credited to Student - Aug. 16, 2022 Bursar Refunds - Aug. 17, 2022 Fee Payment Deadline - Aug. 29, 2022 Spring 2023 Anticipated Aid - November 1, 2023 Funds Credited to Student - Jan. 4, 2023 Bursar Refunds - Jan. 4, 2023 Fee Payment Deadline - Jan. 16, 2023 View Stipend Pay Dates Tracking Delivery of Funds Missing documents/requirements will prevent the disbursement of certain funds. The OSFA will attempt to notify students of their missing documents/requirements. It is, however, the student's responsibility to be aware of any documents or requirements needed for the disbursement of funds. Students must review their financial aid status and student account on a regular basis to track requirements and disbursements. Visit OSCAR to review your account. For a brief period, you may notice that your "Anticipated Financial Aid" is not on your student invoice and your student account has not been credited. This is normal procedure. You may still view your Financial Aid Awards under "My Award Letter" in OSCAR and continue to check for your credits to appear on your Student Account before the payment deadline. Please contact the Bursar's Office with any questions concerning the student account, and contact the OSFA concerning financial aid requirements. Refund/Repayment Policy If you receive financial aid and subsequently do not enroll (attend classes) at the Institute, or you enroll, attend classes, and then withdraw or cease attending all courses, you may be required to return financial aid funds received. The OSFA will calculate the amount of financial aid "earned" prior to withdrawing. Any aid received in excess of the earned amount is considered "unearned" and must be returned to the programs from which they were disbursed. The liability of this amount is jointly shared by Georgia Tech and the student and is based on the official withdrawal date or the last date of class attendance. If you decide not to attend a term, you must notify the Institute of your change in enrollment plans. Conditions to Receive Financial Aid In order to receive your financial aid awards, there are certain conditions and requirements you must meet first. Review Conditions Financial Aid and the IRS The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers some forms of financial aid to be taxable income, requiring students to report their earnings. Review Tax Information Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology