Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Pay Bill Refunds KU's refund policy for Lawrence and Edwards Campus students requires direct deposit for student account refunds. Students may sign up through Enroll & Pay, where they can find the “Direct Deposit for Refunds” option in the Campus Finances section. Students can find additional information about direct deposit at the Student Accounts & Receivables website. After signing up for direct deposit, any excess financial aid and other credit balances will be deposited each semester to your designated bank account using Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT). The amount will be determined by the Adjustment/Refund Schedule. If you change bank accounts, you must update your bank information online or resubmit a form. To temporarily accommodate those who have not yet enrolled in direct deposit, paper checks will be mailed once a week to students’ billing addresses or, when no billing address exists, permanent addresses. Verify your billing and permanent addresses on Enroll & Pay. General payment refunds are disbursed after the 20th day of class. Thereafter, general payment refunds are subject to a 14-day encumbrance from the date of payment before being disbursed in the next scheduled refund batch. Withdrawn and canceled enrollment Refunds for financial aid recipients who withdraw (drop all classes) may be applied first to any aid programs from which the student received aid. Depending on when you withdraw from the university, you may or may not owe tuition and fees. Please refer to the Registrar's website for more information and a refund schedule. If you do not intend to return to KU for the start of a new term, you must properly cancel your enrollment before the due date to avoid late fees. If you have accepted financial aid, you must also submit a written request to Financial Aid & Scholarships to cancel your awards. Additional information Holds Select to follow link Taxes Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.