Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Student Financial Services Home Servicios Financieros Estudiantiles en Español Financial Aid TV Portal Apply for Aid How to apply FAFSA Application Summer Session Part-Time Students Undocumented Students Financial Aid for Undocumented Students Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) WASFA Application Admission Information for Undocumented Students Native American Students LGBTQ+ Students Veterans Financial Aid Options Understanding Aid Grants & Waivers State & Federal Grants Institutional Grants & Waivers Cougar Commitment Award TEACH Grant Children of Fallen Heroes Student Jobs Working On Campus Work-Study Loans Student Loans Parent PLUS Loans Graduate & Professional Loans Private Education Loans Leaving WSU? Don’t Forget Your Exit Counseling! Borrowing Responsibly Post-Baccalaureate Aid Student-Athletes Consortium Agreements Study Abroad Scholarships Find & Apply for Scholarships Washington Residents Non-Washington Residents All U.S. Residents International Students College & Department Awards Outside Scholarships Terms & Conditions 2022-2023 2021 – 2022 2020-2021 2019-2020 2018-2019 Your Financial Aid Offer Family Financial Responsibility Awarding Process Financial Aid Offer Status & To-do List Accepting Your Loans Leaving WSU? Don’t Forget Your Exit Counseling! For Parents Special Circumstances Dependency Appeals Maintaining Eligibility Announcements Dropping Classes Canceling Enrollment SAP Requirements Cost of Attendance Tuition & Expenses Aid Estimator & Price Calculator Outreach & Events Event Registration & Requests Outreach Resources Getting Started Deadline Information Deadlines & Dates Student Success Resources Academics & Campus Life Cougar Money Matters || Financial Education Invest In Cougs Navigating your Finances Student Help Resources Student Testimonials Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) SFS Employment Opportunities Contact Us facebook twitter youtube instagram myWSU Access Policies © Student Financial Services Cost of Attendance FAQ's Forms Español Plan your finances in advance Aid Estimator & Cost Calculator Estimate your aid and plan ahead Use these handy tools to estimate the amount of financial aid you may be eligible to receive and to estimate how much it will cost to attend WSU. Please note that these tools provide approximate expenses and amounts of financial aid that a student may qualify for at WSU. They do not guarantee aid or commit WSU, the U.S. Department of Education, or the State of Washington to the results provided. To be considered for financial aid, you will need to apply and meet deadlines. Estimates do not include scholarships. Financial aid estimator This tool provides an estimate of how much financial aid you could qualify for at WSU. Estimates only apply to students who are eligible to complete the FASFA. If you are an undocumented student who qualifies for HB-1079 or DACA, please see your options here. Financial aid estimator Important information: The result you receive is an estimate only for initial college planning purposes. Aid eligibility and award amounts are determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (fafsa.ed.gov). Eligibility depends on you meeting all deadlines and priority dates. This estimate does not take into account untaxed income reported on the FAFSA or a student’s aggregate loan or Pell Grant limits. Estimates do not include scholarships. Please be aware that scholarships will be considered part of your final award package and will affect the amount of aid you receive. The accuracy of the information you provide affects the accuracy of your estimate. The information you enter will not be used or stored, and is not shared with anyone. Net price calculator This tool can be used to determine the estimated net price—cost of attendance minus median grant/scholarship aid—that a full-time, first degree, undergraduate student will pay to attend WSU. Net price calculator Important Information: This calculator is not an application for financial aid. The estimate provided using this tool doesn’t represent a final determination, an actual award of financial assistance, or a final net price. It is an estimate based on the Cost of Attendance and financial aid provided to you from federal and institutional data reported for the 2021-2022 academic year. WSU’s Cost of Attendance and financial aid funding availability changes from year to year. This estimate does not commit WSU, the U.S. Department of Education, or the State of Washington to the results provided. If you are attending another WSU campus, you may have a slightly different cost of attendance figure than a WSU student in Pullman. Our office doesn’t retain any of the personal information you provide during your interaction with the calculator. Next steps Complete your FAFSA Apply for scholarships Give to WSU Forms & Helpful Information SFS Forms Submit SFS Docs Helpful Videos Graduating from WSU WSU Texting Policy Resources & Calculators SAP Handbook Consumer Information & Policies Financial Aid Estimator Net Price Calculator Housing Rate Estimator National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) Partnering Offices Admissions Bursar’s Office Office of the Registrar Veterans Affairs Housing & Residence Life Dean of Students Academic Success and Career Center About Us Mission & Vision Outreach Programs SFS Partner Portal Complaint Steps & Resolution