Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Understand Aid Scholarships Scholarships are funds awarded to students who meet certain criteria, such as merit, need, and background. Generally, these funds are considered gift aid, which means that they do not need to be repaid, whether a student does or does not graduate. First-time freshmen and transfer students apply for KU scholarships through the KU Office of Admissions. KU scholarships The KU Office of Admissions maintains scholarship eligibility requirements for resident and nonresident freshman and transfer students. Unless otherwise noted, KU provides four-year renewable scholarships to eligible freshmen who submit a complete application by March 1. Recipients receive written notification within seven to 10 days of admission. Applicants self-report the information used to determine scholarship eligibility by the KU Office of Admissions. To increase a scholarship amount, a student has until Feb. 1 to update their application. The Office of Admissions must then receive an official, final high school transcript by July 1 for verification. If a student no longer meets criteria after review of these materials, we rescind the scholarship offer. Tiers are primarily based on the overall GPA on a 4.0 scale that most benefits a student at time of application. An incoming fall freshman or transfer student can defer a scholarship for one year, or until they attend another college, university, or community college. Any change in residency or resident tuition rates may also impact eligibility for a scholarship. Renewal criteria Freshman scholarships expire after four years of undergraduate study or upon graduation, whichever occurs first. Transfer scholarships expire after three years of undergraduate study. Scholarship recipients must successfully complete a minimum of 27 KU hours each academic year (fall, spring, summer, or any combination) and maintain at least a 3.25 cumulative KU GPA. After spring grades have posted, Financial Aid & Scholarships will verify that students have met renewal criteria. Students are notified of their scholarship status for the upcoming academic year via their registered KU email address. If a scholarship is not renewed after the first year due to grades and/or hours, it is possible to earn that scholarship for a future term or academic year. Financial Aid & Scholarships monitors grades and hours for all students, and will send notification if renewal criteria is again met. What if I am taking a gap year between high school and KU? Click to expand For students that take a gap year for military service, mission/service with a church or other organizations, KU will hold their scholarship until the next fall semester, as long a they don’t attend another college or university. Students that attend another school, will be considered a transfer student and will be considered for a transfer scholarship. Pell Advantage is not on the freshman scholarship list, is it going away? Click to expand The Pell Advantage will not be awarded to any students that start after Fall 2021. Students that currently have Pell Advantage will have it as long as they meet renewal criteria — file your FAFSA by Feb 1 each year, be Pell Grant eligible, and maintain a 2.5 KU GPA with 24 earned KU hours each year. Private scholarships A student may also obtain scholarships offered by private businesses, community organizations, and local and state governments. Resources like the Kansas ScholarShop, provided by the Office of the Kansas State Treasurer and powered by the Sallie Mae scholarship search engine, can help identify scholarships you may qualify for. Kansans can also visit the Board of Regents website for opportunities. Other scholarships On-campus groups, departments, schools, and offices at KU also offer scholarships: Dependents of KU faculty or staff members may qualify for tuition assistance or the Pepsi Scholarship. Campus residents can seek awards through KU Housing. Study-abroad participants can work with the Office of Study Abroad & Global Engagement to help fund involvement. All students seeking additional assistance can visit the KU Scholarship Portal database. Report outside scholarships Report outside (not-KU) scholarships to Financial Aid & Scholarships. Types of aid Grants Select to follow link Work-Study Select to follow link Loans Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.