Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Apply for Aid Accept Aid Accept or decline your financial aid When your eligibility for financial aid has been determined, a financial aid overview will be emailed to you listing all of your financial aid at that time. You can then accept or decline your aid in Enroll & Pay, where you may also find details regarding financial need; the breakdown of financial aid awards according to amount, source, and type of aid; terms and conditions for your financial aid; and information about the cost of attendance. Note: After you have accepted your financial aid, it may be adjusted or canceled due to new financial aid or updated financial information. Complete a master promissory note (MPN) A promissory note is required to receive funds from an educational loan program. If you are receiving a Federal Direct Subsidized or Unsubsidized loan for the first time, you must complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN). If you accept a Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS), your parent will be required to submit a PLUS request form for the current aid year and will also be required to electronically sign an MPN. Each applicable promissory note must be completed before loan funds can be disbursed. Complete loan entrance counseling If you are a first-time borrower, you must also complete online entrance counseling at studentaid.gov. Steps for obtaining aid File the FAFSA Select to follow link Receive Aid Select to follow link Maintain Aid Select to follow link Transfer Aid Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.