Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Basics Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Answers to commonly-asked questions about FASAP. The academic progress of all Federal financial aid recipients must meet minimum standards set forth by the Federal Government in order for the student to receive Federal financial aid. Minimum standards for Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) apply to all recipients of federal and/or state assistance. Brown University ensures that all federal aid recipients are meeting Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) each academic year following both the fall and spring semesters. Review the FASAP policy Frequently Asked Questions Is a minimum GPA required to maintain eligibility for University Scholarship? Brown does not calculate GPAs for its students. The Committee on Academic Standing (CAS) does expect students to complete a minimum number of credits based on the number of semesters enrolled. Based on the number of credits completed and the number of semesters enrolled, CAS places students in the following categories: Good Standing, Warning, Serious Warning or Suspended. CAS determines if a student is Refused Registration and gives permission for students to return to Brown after a leave of absence. For full details on the number of credits required to maintain satisfactory academic progress, review the FASAP Policy. Will grades impact financial aid? All financial aid awarded at Brown is based on financial need; therefore, a student will not receive additional financial aid based on academic performance at Brown. However, all students receiving financial aid are expected to maintain satisfactory academic progress as determined by the Committee on Academic Standing (CAS). How often does the Office of Financial Aid check on academic status? Brown University ensures that all federal aid recipients are meeting FASAP each academic year following both the fall and spring semesters. How does placement on Serious Warning by the Committee on Academic Standing affect financial aid? If the Committee on Academic Standing places a student on Serious Warning, they risk losing federal financial aid during the following academic year. Students placed on Serious Warning receive a warning notification from the Dean of the College. For specific details about the effects on financial aid, review the FASAP Policy. If a student is allowed to return after suspension, will they be eligible for financial aid? If the Committee on Academic Standing documents mitigating circumstances, the Office of Financial Aid will review those circumstances and determine if financial aid may be reinstated. Brown cannot award federal financial aid to a student who is not making satisfactory academic progress. An academic plan must be in place. How does a student apply for aid for a ninth and/or tenth semester at Brown? For a ninth and/or tenth semester, will there be differences in financial aid eligibility? If a student meets all of Brown's renewal application and deadline requirements for the academic year, and the Dean of the College’s Office approves the term(s) as required to complete a degree and/or concentration, they will be considered for University Scholarship. For students who have been approved by the Dean of the College’s Office for an Optional Ninth Term, there is no eligibility for University Scholarship. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Open details for Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Bookmark this Page