Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Loans & Receivables Loan Repayment Loan Repayment Menu Home Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices Billing Servicers If you borrowed from the Federal Direct Student Loan program (Stafford and PLUS loans), your lender is the federal Department of Education. Your loan will be billed by the Federal Direct Loan Servicer. If you borrowed from a Federal Campus Based Loan program (Perkins, Federal Health Profession and Nursing loans), your lender is the University of Washington. These loans will be billed by the UW’s loan servicer, ECSI. If you borrowed from an Institutional Loan program (that you received from a UW department), your lender is the University of Washington and you will be billed by our loan servicer, ECSI. Managing Your UW Loan Account If the University of Washington is your lender, your loan will be billed by ECSI. You will need to create a user account on the ESCI website to monitor your account and take advantage of available online services. If you have questions about your account, contact ESCI and a representative will assist you. Deferment, Cancellation and Forbearance Many loan programs offer benefits such as deferment, forbearance, or cancellation options based on the specific terms of your loan. If you are eligible for any of these benefits, please see our Loan Forms and review the address you need to submit the form to for processing. Most forms can be submitted to our loan servicer, ECSI. If you have questions about eligibility for any of these options or how to file a request form, please contact ECSI and a representative will assist you. Tips for successful repayment of your student loan Keep your lender informed if you: change your name, address or phone number transfer schools leave school or drop below half-time change your graduation date Make sure you have all of your loan records organized. Keep copies of your promissory note, disclosure statements and repayment schedule. Create a realistic budget which includes your student loan payments. Know: when your loan payments begin the amount of your student loan payments your rights and responsibilities as a student loan borrower Consider loan consolidation Contact your lender immediately if you are having trouble making your monthly payment or have any questions or concerns about repayment Lender and Servicer Links ESCI - services UW campus-based loans Federal Direct Stafford, Grad PLUS or Parent PLUS Loan Private loans - refer to your promissory note for lender contact information Home Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices LOGIN ECSI Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA