https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Summer First-Year Students | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Summer First-Year Students Financial aid can help make college more affordable. We encourage all incoming students to apply for financial aid. You should file as early as you can to maximize your potential aid opportunities. By applying for financial aid, you're automatically considered for all need-based aid. You will need to reapply for financial aid every year. Since the Summer 2022 semester is part of the current 2021-22 academic year, you must submit the 2021-22 aid applications mentioned below, along with any other supplemental documentation requested, for summer financial aid consideration. Application Steps Prospective first-year students admitted to start in Summer 2022 should apply for financial aid by completing the following aid applications: Step 1: Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) If you wish to receive funds from any federal, state, or institutional sources for the summer semester, you must complete the 2021-22 Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT APP). Please note: Students who have been awarded funds from outside/private scholarships must also complete a GT App so that the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) may determine the proper disbursement schedule for your funds. Items Needed To complete the GT App, you will need a GT Account username and password to login to OSCAR and access the form. To activate your GT account, visit passport.gatech.edu. Submit the GT App Step 2: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) In addition to the GT App, if you wish to be considered for Federal Aid or need-based institutional funds, you must also complete the 2021-22 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) using your 2019 tax information. This application is available until June 30, 2022. Please note: Georgia residents who wish to apply for the HOPE/Zell Miller Scholarship ONLY may complete the Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) form instead of the FAFSA. The GT App is also required. Items Needed Georgia Tech's Title IV school code: 001569. Your social security number and, if you are a dependent student, your parents’ social security numbers. Your driver’s license number if you have one, or Alien Registration number if you are not a U.S. citizen. Federal tax information or tax returns from two years prior including IRS W-2 information, for you (and your spouse, if you are married), and for your parents if you are a dependent student. If you are selected for verification, you will need to provide the specific documentation requested based on academic year and your dependency status. Financial aid awards are not final and will not be disbursed until the verification process is complete. FAFSA processing can take up to 3 – 5 business days after completion. Submit the FAFSA Step 3: Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) – Georgia Residents Only The Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) is the state aid application for Georgia residents who want to be considered for the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarship ONLY. You do NOT need to complete the GSFAPPS if you are applying for federal financial aid and submitting the FAFSA. To be considered for the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarship, you must also complete the GT App. Submit the GSFAPPS Important Dates and Deadlines The priority filing date to be considered for need-based aid awarded through Georgia Tech’s OSFA is January 31. To be considered an “on-time” financial aid applicant, all applicable aid applications listed above, as well as any requested documentation, must be received and complete by January 31. OSFA will continue to accept late applications and documentation after the priority date. However, we strongly encourage all applicants to submit their completed applications and documentation as soon as possible so we can determine your eligibility for other types of aid. Next Steps Since the Fall 2022 semester is part of the upcoming 2022-23 academic year, the applications above do not cover the upcoming fall semester. If you wish to apply for financial aid for the Fall 2022 semester, you must complete the fall first-year aid applications separately, along with any other supplemental documentation requested. Apply for Fall Aid Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology