Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Financial Literacy Develop skills for life beyond Princeton. More than ever, a basic understanding of finances is an important part of life. As our financial environments shift and you are presented with many spending, banking, and credit options, it will be important to make informed decisions. We encourage you to visit the Financial Literacy Initiative website for the most up-to-date programming and financial resources, including including links to various resources, tips, and recordings of previous workshops. Budgeting A budget is how you plan to use your money. By tracking your income and expenses, you can create a simple spending and savings plan. Credit Credit is your standing as a borrower and is typically represented by a numerical credit score. Good borrowing habits can increase this measure and improve your ability to borrow under favorable terms. Taxes Are you required to file a tax return? Do you know how much income you had this year? A basic understanding of the tax code will help you in your financial planning. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746