Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Search Financial Aid Accessing Your Student Record A helpful portal to keep track of your information during the application process. Breadcrumb Home Apply for Aid Sub Navigation In This Section MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Accessing Your Student Record A helpful portal to keep track of your information during the application process. To navigate through Self-Service Banner (SSB), please enter secure area with your username and password. Self-Service Banner (SSB) The SSB Medical School Students Financial Aid tab houses application requirements, personalized COA budget, annual financial aid package, and link to upload documents. We have created a helpful guide to assist you in navigating the Self-Service Banner (SSB) site. Navigating the Self-Service Banner (SSB) Upload Helpful Hints Submitted forms need to be in pdf format. Fill out forms, save on personal computer as pdf; then upload saved form via SSB. Do not include extra periods in the file name; myFile.pdf, for example. Another option is the app, Scannable/Evernote, where you can transform documents into scans with your mobile device and save as a pdf. Scan in black and white at a low resolution (200-300 dpi). AMS library has scanners and step-by-step instructions. SSB is interactive and document status changes take up to 3 business days for processing. A "P" indicates the document is pending. Example: a W2 will be in "P" status until TAX is approved. An "I" indicates submitted document is incomplete. Example: a missing signature or information is still needed. SSB Student Account tab details University billing, payments and refunds to your account. Account Detail for Term and Statement and Payment History selections contain valuable information. Annually, update your personal information in the SSB Personal Information tab. Update addresses, emergency contacts, cell phone numbers for emergency messages, marital status and other pertinent information. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Accessing Your Student Record Open details for Accessing Your Student Record Bookmark this Page