Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Financial Aid Costs & Affordability Costs Affordability Estimate Your Cost Types of Aid and Other Financial Resources Understanding the Student Share Applying for Aid Prospective & New Students Continuing Students Transfer Students Eli Whitney Students Year or Term Abroad Summer Students Sources for Outside Aid The Award Letter Understanding Your Award Finalizing Your Award Renewing Your Award Paying Your Bill Requesting a Review Financial Aid Terminology Graduate Aid Graduate Financial Aid Offices Graduate Loans Military Benefits Welcome COVID-19 information For information on Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) grants for Yale students, please see the university's HEERF grant FAQs. See the 2020–2021 FAQ: Undergraduate Financial Aid for information on Yale College financial aid matters related to the 2020–2021 academic year. For information on the University's COVID-19 response plans more broadly, visit the COVID-19: Yale Actions and Response page, the Yale College COVID-19 Announcements and FAQs page, and Yale Health COVID-19 FAQs. See what Yale's financial aid means for your family Yale awards all undergraduate financial aid on the basis of financial need, with the goal of making a Yale education affordable for everyone. The resources on this site and the staff at the Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid can help you turn your dream of a Yale education into a reality. Estimate Your Cost in 3 Minutes Get a more detailed estimate Yale offers two tools for estimating what a Yale undergraduate education would cost after accounting for financial aid. The Quick Cost Estimator provides a ballpark estimate based on six simple questions. The Net Price Calculator provides a more detailed estimate, using more information about your family's finances. Submitting financial aid documents Use the College Board's IDOC Service to submit tax returns and other documentation. For more information about this service, see IDOC under Financial Aid Terminology or visit the College Board website. Undergraduate aid applicants may submit required Yale forms through the Online Document Upload Tool. Please allow up to two business days for processing. Schedule an appointment While the staff of the Undergraduate Financial Aid Office are currently working remotely, newly admitted and current undergraduate students may still schedule an appointment for a virtual meeting. Please visit our Contact Information page for details and a scheduling link. Resources Forms FAQ Student Information System Billing & Payment Financial Literacy Student Employment Contact Us Contact Information All Financial Aid Office staff are currently working remotely, but there are still several ways to connect with us. Student Financial Services Center Currently closed to visitors Telephone 203-432-2700 Hours: 9–4 ET Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube