Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Tuition & Fees Registration Holds Registration Holds Menu Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans A hold has been placed on your account to address a balance owed. To view your balance, please review your tuition statement. It is important for you to address past due balances as soon as possible. Consequences for non-payment of debt owed can include holds on registration and transcripts remaining in place, possible referral to a collection agency, where a collection fee will be assessed and will be due in full at the time of the referral to the third party. The fee will be based on a percentage at a maximum of 40% of the debt as authorized by RCW 19.16.500, and may include reasonable costs and expenses including attorney’s fees Additionally, delinquent accounts may be reported to one or more of the national credit bureaus. To give you more information about where to go to make payments or set up payment arrangements, please complete the Holds Inquiry Form so we can give you the most up to date information. Housing Seattle Campus For balances owed for UW Seattle Housing, your charges will appear on your account with their office . To make payments or set up a payment plan please visit/contact Housing and Food Services. Bothell Campus For balances owed for UW Bothell Housing, your charges will appear on your tuition account. To make payments or set up a payment plan please email uwbhousing@uw.edu or by phone at 425-352-3839. Current residents who have not previously paid or setup an extension through the housing office will have holds placed on their student registration and may have their housing terminated, per the housing agreement. Former residents with past due housing balances will be sent to collections the following quarter after non-payment. Tacoma Campus For balances owed for UW Tacoma Housing, your charges will appear on your tuition account. Payments can be made on your tuition account or, to set up a payment plan please contact: court17@uw.edu or 253.274.9000. Former student residents with past due balances may not be eligible to return to on-campus housing. PCE/Continuum College If you are a student with PCE/Continuum College, your charges will show on your My UW under PCE-Continuum College. To make payments or set up a payment plan please visit/contact: Phone: 206-543-2310 Email: c2reg@uw.edu In Person: 4311 11th Avenue N.E., Suite 100, Seattle, WA 98105-4608 Hours: Monday-Thursday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA