https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Graduate Financial Aid Options | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Graduate Financial Aid Options Fellowships Many graduate departments offer fellowships to Georgia Tech graduate students. You must be nominated for these awards by your academic department. The Graduate Studies office provides helpful information about fellowships, assistantships, and other payment options. Paying for Grad School Federal Direct Loans Georgia Tech participates in Direct Lending, which provides a streamlined, high-quality, cost-effective, and dependable loan program for students and families. The Federal Direct Loan Program includes the following loans for graduate students: Graduate Unsubsidized Direct Student Loans Unsubsidized Loans are federally guaranteed loans that are not based on financial need. Interest accrues from the time the loan is distributed to Georgia Tech. Students are not required to start making payments on this loan until six months after they graduate or drop below half-time. This is known as the “grace period.” The annual loan limit is $20,500 or up to the cost of attendance minus any other financial aid or resources. Graduate Direct PLUS Loans This is a loan option for graduate students to help pay for their educational costs not covered by the unsubsidized loan. Graduate students can borrow up to the cost of attendance minus any other financial aid the student is receiving. For instance, if the cost of attendance is $30,000 for the year and the student has an unsubsidized loan for $20,500 and a $5,000 fellowship toward the school cost, the student can borrow up to $4,500. The current interest rate as of July 1, 2020 is a fixed rate of 5.30 percent. Interest rates are set by the Department of Education around July 1 every year and will be updated accordingly at that time on our website. Please note: credit approval is required for Graduate Direct PLUS loans. The duration of a credit check for Direct Plus Loan applicants is 180 days. Apply for Federal Loans Video not supported. Private Loans Many private lending institutions offer loans to students seeking assistance to meet expenses related to attendance at Georgia Tech. There are an increasing number of private loans, and the terms of these loans change frequently. Apply for Private Loans Federal Work Study Federal Work-Study (FWS) provides part-time jobs for graduate students with financial need, allowing them to earn money to help pay education expenses. The program encourages community service work and work related to the student’s course of study. At Georgia Tech, FWS is awarded to graduate students who enroll at least half-time and demonstrate financial need. FWS awards generally vary from $600 to $1,500 per semester and are earned during the period of enrollment. Students may work in an on-campus, off-campus, or in a community service position. Advantages of participating in the FWS program include: The money you earn helps to meet college expenses and will not be counted as income for your financial aid eligibility determination next year. You get on-the-job experience to give you an edge in the job market after graduation. You're able to work with accomplished professionals in their field, which provides you with valuable references in the future. Apply for FWS Explore FWS Options Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology