Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Apply for Aid Transfer Aid Financial aid cannot be transferred from one postsecondary institution to another. However, if you received federal financial aid from one institution, you should be able to receive federal financial aid at KU (as long as you meet eligibility requirements and SAP standards). Contact your current school’s financial aid office You’ll want to inquire about their transfer policies. If you were awarded financial aid for the fall semester at the school you will no longer be attending, submit a written request to cancel your spring financial aid. If you have already enrolled for the spring semester but plan to transfer to KU, you may need to officially withdraw to avoid charges. Send your FAFSA to KU You will need to request your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) information be sent to KU. If you are receiving a federal loan, you must cancel the loan with the school you are not attending and reapply at KU. We will not be able to process your new loan until the previous one has been cancelled. This process can take up to four weeks. You can add and delete school codes (KU’s is 001948) at fafsa.gov using your FSA ID, or contact the Federal Processor at 1-800-433-3243 to make this request. Check about other forms of aid If you are receiving an outside scholarship, contact the scholarship donor to coordinate the transfer of funds, if the donor permits it. If you were awarded financial aid funded by the State of Kansas, contact the Kansas Board of Regents at 785-430-4240 or kansasregents.org. Steps for obtaining aid File the FAFSA Select to follow link Accept Aid Select to follow link Receive Aid Select to follow link Maintain Aid Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.