Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Consumer information Professional Licensure Disclosure Students considering an academic program, whether online or campus-based, as a pathway to professional licensure or certification in any field should note: The University of Kansas cannot confirm whether any particular course or program meets requirements for professional licensure in states other than Kansas. Students must seek guidance from their home state licensing agency BEFORE enrolling in the academic program to ensure that a license can be obtained. Below is a list of resources that may be helpful for researching professional licensure or certification processes, requirements, and agency contact information. This list is not comprehensive, and students are reminded that it is their responsibility to accurately research licensing or certification requirements for their own state or profession: CareerOneStop - survey tool for locating professional licensing regulatory bodies, sponsored by the U.S. Department of Labor, Employment, and Training Administration Council on Licensure, Enforcement, and Regulation - listing by state of licensing and regulatory boards in North America U.S. Department of Education - contact info by state for department of education, higher education agency, special education, and adult education National Association of State Boards of Accountancy - listing by state National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) - member licensing boards National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN) - state members Nurse Licensure Compact (NLC) - participating states Social Work Examination Services - state licensing boards Table of licensure information Program School or dept. Information Masters of Accountancy School of Business Integrated CPA examination review program overview Bachelors of Social Welfare Social Welfare Our BSW meets licensure requirements in all 50 states (to become an LBSW). Our MSW program, both clinical and macro concentrations, meet the licensure requirements in all 50 states (to become an LMSW). Only the clinical concentration (not the macro concentration) of the MSW program meets standards for a LSCSW. The LSCSW is a specialist clinical license in Kansas that is only available to those who have already been licensed as an LMSW. Bachelor of Music in Music Therapy School of Music The Bachelor of Music in Music Therapy meets the educational requirements for a student to be eligible to sit for the Music Therapy Board Certification (MT-BC) credential, which is a national certification. If you plan to live in a U.S. state or territory that requires a license/certification or registration after completion of your program, it is highly recommended you first seek guidance from the appropriates agency BEFORE beginning the academic program to ensure you can obtain a license/certification or register in your home state or territory, if required. The Certification Board for Music Therapists provides links to boards in US states or territories that require licensure/certification or registration. Graduate Equivalency Program in Music Therapy School of Music The Graduate Equivalency Program in Music Therapy meets the educational requirements for a student to be eligible to sit for the Music Therapy Board Certification (MT-BC) credential, which is a national certification. If you plan to live in a U.S. state or territory that requires a license/certification or registration after completion of your program, it is highly recommended you first seek guidance from the appropriates agency BEFORE beginning the academic program to ensure you can obtain a license/certification or register in your home state or territory, if required. The Certification Board for Music Therapists provides links to boards in US states or territories that require licensure/certification or registration. Bachelors of Music Education School of Music Student Teaching Internship & Licensure Pharmacy School of Pharmacy Doctor of Pharmacy overview Master of Architecture - 5 year program School of Architecture & Design Master of Architecture (M.Arch. I) overview Master of Architecture - Track Two School of Architecture & Design Master of Architecture (Track II) overview Master of Architecture - Track Three School of Architecture & Design Master of Architecture (Track III) overview Bachelor's in American Sign Language & Deaf Studies School of Professional Studies - Edwards Campus Bachelor’s Degrees in American Sign Language & Deaf Studies overview Clinical Child Psychology College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Clinical Child Psychology Program licensure Law School of Law ABA standard 509 disclosures overview MA in Applied Behavior Science Dept. of Applied Behavioral Sciences Certifications - Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) overview PhD in Behavioral Psychology Dept. of Applied Behavioral Sciences The Applied Behavioral Science doctoral program overview Certificate in Applied Behavioral Sciences School of Professional Studies - Edwards Campus Online Master of Arts in Applied Behavioral Science & Online ABAI-verified Course Sequence overview Multiple Programs School of Education and Human Sciences Educator Licensure Services KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.