Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Apply for Aid File the FAFSA Developed by the U.S. Department of Education, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, is one of the key components to college affordability. Once filed, this form determines a student's eligibility, as well as the amount of grants, loans, and work-study programs for which they qualify. Create a Federal Student Aid ID (FSA ID) Assigned by the U.S. Department of Education, your FSA ID is an electronic signature used when you file your FAFSA, correct your Student Aid Report (SAR), sign your Master Promissory Note (MPN), and monitor federal loans you receive. Your FSA ID and password are confidential and should not be shared. To provide required information on the FAFSA, parents of dependent students should also create an FSA ID. Complete and submit the FAFSA Students should file the FAFSA as early as possible after it becomes available on Oct. 1 and must file by Feb. 1 to be considered for aid programs with limited funds. KU’s federal school code is 001948. The Department of Education recommends that you file the FAFSA online, but paper versions of the application are also available. Complete the aid application for your specific state You may qualify for financial aid through your home state. If you are a Kansas resident, additional information is available at kansasregents.org. Note: An application fee is required for Kansas applicants. Review your Student Aid Report (SAR) Your SAR summarizes the information included in your FAFSA and indicates your Estimated Family Contribution (EFC). If you provided an email address on your FAFSA, you should receive your SAR by email within five to seven days of filing; otherwise, your SAR will be mailed within three weeks. If information is deemed incorrect or absent, see How to Review and Correct Your FAFSA® Application to make adjustments. If your current financial situation was not accurately reflected on the FAFSA, adjustments can be made in some cases. Contact your financial aid counselor about a Special Circumstance Re-evaluation Request. Submit additional requested documents If further information is required to complete your financial aid file, a notification will be sent to your registered KU email address. You may also check your to-do list on Enroll & Pay. Financial aid will not be awarded until all requested information is received, processed, and your file is complete. Failure to promptly submit could affect your eligibility for some limited funding. Complete verification Verification is a process mandated by the U.S. Department of Education to ensure information provided on your FAFSA is accurate. If you are selected for verification, you will receive an email at your KU address if you're a current student, or your home address if you will be a freshman this fall. Please complete and submit the Verification Worksheet at ku.verifymyfafsa.com along with all required documents listed, which may include federal tax return transcripts, W-2s, and 1099 forms. Verification may take up to four weeks after FAS receives all required documentation. Steps for obtaining aid Accept Aid Select to follow link Receive Aid Select to follow link Maintain Aid Select to follow link Transfer Aid Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.