Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Buying a Computer Breadcrumb Home Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Sub Navigation In This Section Paying for Travel Expenses Buying A Computer Buying a Computer Students may use excess outside scholarship funding or loans to cover the cost of a computer. Not all students will need or wish to purchase a computer when coming to Brown; therefore, the cost is not included in your estimated Cost of Attendance If you wish to purchase a computer, your Cost of Attendance may be increased to include the expense of a reasonably priced, educationally-related computer. The computer and related accessories must be considered educationally relevant for the academic period the allowance would be applied to and must be reasonable in cost in order to be covered. For example, a digital camera, gaming software, etc would not be covered. A printer, carrying case and service protection plan are examples of allowable expenses. Any questions regarding what would be considered a reasonable expense for a computer and/or add-ons should be directed to a Financial Aid Counselor prior to purchase. The following resources may be used to cover this expense: 1. Borrow a student loan. Purchase the computer* and submit your computer receipt to the Office of Financial Aid and we will assist you in securing a loan to cover the cost. After the loan is added to your financial aid package, it is then applied to your student billing account. If the balance on your account is $0 before the loan is added, request a refund of the loan funds through the Bursar’s Office to reimburse yourself for the computer purchase. 2. If you received outside scholarships or resources that exceed the student effort level expected within your financial aid award and as a result your University Scholarship has been reduced, you may have the option of using a portion of your outside scholarship(s) as an allowance towards the one-time purchase of a computer. Contact the OFA to be sure this funding is applicable to you and to confirm the amount available for the purchase. Once that is established, Purchase the computer* and submit your computer receipt to the Office of Financial Aid. Your award will be adjusted to reflect the expense. After the funding is added to your financial aid package, it is then applied to your student billing account. If the balance on your account is $0 before the funding is added, request a refund of the funds through the Bursar’s Office as a reimbursement for the computer purchase expense. *If you do not have funds to pay for the computer up-front, email us at financial_aid@brown.edu to discuss your options. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Buying a Computer Open details for Buying a Computer Bookmark this Page