https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Cost Adjustments | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Cost Adjustments Cost of attendance may also include other expenses like an allowance for the rental or purchase of a personal computer, costs related to a disability, or costs for eligible study-abroad programs. These specific costs may be considered as an adjustment to your cost of attendance. Adjustments Child Care Child care and/or dependent care expenses incurred to care for a child or other dependent may be allowed as an addition to the Cost of Attendance. The dependent must be part of your household, and the care must be required for you to attend classes. For example, if the dependent is a child who is in school during the same time you attend classes, a dependent-care allowance would not be included. Likewise, if the spouse is normally at home to provide care, an allowance would not be appropriate. Actual costs incurred (to a maximum of $600 per semester) are considered, and documentation must be provided. Computer Ownership Computer ownership is required for all entering undergraduates. On request, a one-time $1,100 adjustment may be added to a student's Cost of Attendance for purposes of determining his or her eligibility for student financial assistance. A receipt showing computer purchase costs will be required at the start of the first term. Disability-Related Expenses If you have a disability, an allowance may be considered for those expenses related to the disability, including special services, transportation, equipment, and/or supplies that are reasonable and required for pursuit of an eligible program of study and not provided by other assisting agencies. You must be able to justify and document these costs. Health Insurance Some students may be required to pay for their own individual health insurance costs. On a case-by-case basis, our office will consider written requests for a Cost of Attendance increase given the following requirements: The maximum amount approved by this Cost of Attendance increase will be equal to the lesser of the cost of the Board of Regents approved plan or the actual amount paid. Students using the Board of Regents approved vendor will not need to provide a receipt; however, students using vendors other than the Board of Regents approved vendor will need to provide documentation stating the effective dates of the insurance policy and the amount paid. Housing Costs Students residing on-campus may have the housing component of their Cost of Attendance adjusted to reflect actual charges. Students residing off-campus who incur reasonable housing costs in excess of our estimates may be able to appeal to see if a Cost of Attendance adjustment is possible. Loan Fees Actual costs of loan origination fees and guarantee fees may be added to the budgets for recipients of educational loans if such fees exceed standard estimates. Professional Practice (Co-Op) Any reasonable costs associated with employment in a cooperative education program (to a maximum of $2,250 per year) may be considered in your Cost of Attendance. However, eligibility for co-op terms in which there is no enrollment in coursework is limited to private education loans. Study Abroad Reasonable costs associated with a study abroad program sponsored by the University System of Georgia may be considered in the Cost of Attendance. Email your advisor for more information concerning financial aid for study abroad. Books You can expect to have varied costs per semester for books and supplies. The average/estimated component in the annual/published Cost of Attendance is meant to be a guide. Depending upon your field of study and/or your course load, you may have additional costs for required text books and/or course materials. You may submit for review an appeal for consideration of extraordinary expenses by providing to our office a written statement of your expenses and copies of receipts showing book and supply purchases. Exceptions will be made on a case by case basis and within a reasonable amount, we may approve an adjustment to your cost of attendance. Other Costs Students may request cost adjustments based on documented expenses. Requests must be submitted in writing to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid along with the appropriate supporting documentation. Please email your financial aid advisor with any questions. Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology