Skip to main content Office of Financial Aid CSU A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Submit search navigation menu Costs & Billing Cost of Attendance 2022-2023 Tuition and Fees Differential Tuition Charges College Opportunity Fund Paying Your Bill Applying for Aid Getting Started Next Steps Financial Aid Eligibility Summer Financial Aid Consumer Information Types of Financial Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Residency Our Team Contact Us Federal Emergency CARES Act, CRRSAA Grants, and ARP Grants As a result of the CARES Higher Education Emergency Relief (HEERF) Certification and Agreement that Colorado State University signed and submitted to the Department of Education in April 2020, Colorado State University received $17,693,711 through the initial Federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Of these funds, $8,846,855 was allocated directly to students in the form of emergency financial aid grants for expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to coronavirus. In January 2021, the University received an additional $8,846,856 in funding for students through the Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA). The University received an additional $25,218,226 through the Federal American Rescue Plan (ARP) in May 2021. As a result of the university going to an online format after March 25th, 2020, the university also used these funds to reimburse for refunds provided to students for room and board. In total, the university reimbursed $13,468,166 back to students for room and board (including apartment rents) and dining charges to cover the period after online classes started. The American Rescue Plan (ARP) included additional COVID-19 relief for institutions of higher education. This new COVID stimulus bill included $40 billion, available through September 30, 2023, for higher education institutions and students, using the same Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) model established in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Information about the HEERF I, II, or III legislation can be found on the Department of Education’s website at CARES Act: Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF I), CRRSAA: Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF II), or ARP: American Rescue Plan (HEERF III). Quarter 1 | March 2021 Quarter 2 | June 2021 Quarter 3 | September 2021 Quarter 4 | December 2021 Quarter 5 | March 2022 Quarter 1 | March 2021 Quarter 1 Covering quarter ending March 31, 2021 Estimated number of students potentially eligible for the quarter 17,339 Number of students who received grants during the quarter 5,958 Total amount of funds disbursed to students from all HEERF grants for the quarter $7,960,250 As of March 31st, 2021, a total of $7,960,250 in Higher Education Emergency Relief funds had been disbursed to 5,958 students during quarter 1. The estimated total number of students potentially eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants in that quarter was 17,339. Revision date 1/5/2021 Quarter 2 | June 2021 Quarter 2 Covering quarter ending June 30, 2021 Estimated number of students potentially eligible for the quarter 17,631 Number of students who received grants during the quarter 79 Total amount of funds disbursed to students from all HEERF grants for the quarter $99,195 As of June 30th, 2021, a total of $99,195 in Higher Education Emergency Relief funds had been disbursed to 79 students during quarter 2. The estimated total number of students potentially eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants was 17,631. Revision date 1/5/2021 Quarter 3 | September 2021 Quarter 3 Covering quarter ending September 30, 2021 Estimated number of students potentially eligible for the quarter 24,653 Number of students who received grants during the quarter 6,673 Total amount of funds disbursed to students from all HEERF grants for the quarter $20,564,415 As of September 30th, 2021, a total of $20,564,415 in Higher Education Emergency Relief funds had been disbursed to 6,673 students during quarter 3. The estimated total number of students potentially eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants was 24,653. Revision date 1/5/2021 Quarter 4 | December 2021 Quarter 4 Covering quarter ending December 31, 2021 Estimated number of students potentially eligible for the quarter 18,136 Number of students who received grants during the quarter 671 Total amount of funds disbursed to students from all HEERF grants for the quarter $2,066,890 As of December 31st, 2021, a total of $2,066,890 in Higher Education Emergency Relief funds had been disbursed to 671 students during quarter 4. The estimated total number of students potentially eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants was 18,136. Revision date 1/5/2021 Quarter 5 | March 2022 Quarter 5 Covering quarter ending March 31, 2022 Estimated number of students potentially eligible for the quarter 17,491 Number of students who received grants during the quarter 3,021 Total amount of funds disbursed to students from all HEERF grants for the quarter $3,362,645 As of March 31st, 2022, a total of $3,362,645 in Higher Education Emergency Relief funds had been disbursed to 3,021 students during quarter 5. The estimated total number of students potentially eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants was 17,491. Revision date 4/7/2022 CARES/HEERF Institutional Quarterly Reports: View CARES Institutional portion report September 2020 View CARES Institutional portion report March 2021 View CARES Institutional portion report June 2021 View CARES Institutional portion report September 2021 View CARES Institutional portion report December 2021 View CARES Institutional portion report March 2022 American Rescue Plan (ARP) Grant ARP funds will be sent direct to students who are/were enrolled at CSU who meet the eligibility criteria for the award and who have demonstrated exceptional financial need based on their FAFSA or other financial aid application information. There is no application process and awards will be a fixed one-time amount. Funds will begin to be distributed in Fall 2021. Recipients will be notified of their award via email. Eligibility for ARP Grants Who is eligible for this award? Eligible recipients for fall 2021 will be automatically considered for ARP funds, based on eligibility requirements – no additional application is required. Students must have a FAFSA on file with the university to be considered for ARP funds, as the Office of Financial Aid uses a student’s aid application to determine eligibility for grant funding. In addition, funding prioritization will be directed toward students who demonstrate the most significant financial need. Students who are not eligible to complete the FAFSA will not be considered for this award, per federal guidance. Students admitted to online degree programs are eligible to be considered for fall 2021 grant funds. We encourage students who are not eligible for ARP funds to reach out to the Office of Financial Aid if they’ve experienced a financial hardship. Frequently Asked Questions About ARP Grants How will students receive this money? Students who have been awarded an ARP grant must complete a payment authorization for the award on RAMweb. Students can do this by logging in to RAMweb and navigating to the notifications panel on the homepage. This will direct students to the financial aid awards page where they can authorize their grant payment and let us know if they’d like the grant funds to be applied to their CSU bill or paid directly to the student in the form of a refund. Refunds can be sent directly to students via direct deposit or mailed check. Students may update their refund preference on the billing page of their RAMweb. What is the amount of a typical award? Students may be awarded up to $3,000 depending on demonstrated financial need provided in a student’s financial aid application How do I apply for emergency grant funds? Eligible recipients will be automatically considered for ARP funds, based on eligibility requirements – no additional application is required. When will students receive their refund if granted an award? Award notifications will begin to be sent in August 2021. Students will be notified via email if they are granted an award, and this email will include instructions regarding how to complete the grant authorization on RAMweb. After completing the grant authorization, ARP grant funds should be release within 2-4 business days. I am an online student; can I receive the ARP grant? Yes, you will be considered for an award if you meet all other eligibility criteria. Under what circumstances might a student not qualify for this funding? A student who does not demonstrate financial need or who is ineligible to complete the FAFSA will not be granted this funding. Awards are granted based on availability of funding and demonstrated financial need. Those who do not meet the eligibility criteria for ARP funding but have experienced a financial hardship are encouraged to reach out to the Office of Financial Aid. Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA) Grant CRRSAA funds will be sent directly to students who are/were enrolled at CSU who meet the eligibility criteria for the award and who have demonstrated exceptional need based on their FAFSA information. There is no application process and awards will be a fixed one-time amount. Funds will be distributed beginning in February 2021. Recipients will be notified via email. Eligibility for CRRSAA Grants Who is eligible for this award? Eligible recipients for spring 2021 will be automatically considered for CRRSAA funds, based on eligibility requirements – no additional application is required. Students must have a FAFSA on file with the university to be considered for CRRSAA funds, as the Office of Financial Aid uses a student’s aid application to determine eligibility for grant funding. In addition, funding prioritization will be directed toward students who demonstrate the most significant financial need. Students who are not eligible to complete the FAFSA will not be considered for this award, per federal guidance. Students admitted to online degree programs are eligible to be considered for spring 2021 grant funds. We encourage students who are not eligible for CRRSAA funds to reach out to the Office of Financial Aid if they’ve experienced a financial hardship. Frequently Asked Questions About CRRSAA How will students receive this money? Emergency grants will bypass any existing balance a student may have with the university, and be sent directly to students via direct deposit or mailed check. Students may update their refund preference on the billing page of their RAMweb. What is the amount of a typical award? These grants range from $750-$1,750 depending on demonstrated financial need provided in a student’s financial aid application How do I apply for emergency grant funds? Eligible recipients for spring 2021 will be automatically considered for CRRSAA funds, based on eligibility requirements – no additional application is required. When will students receive their refund if granted an award for spring 2021? For Spring 2021 students should review their RAMweb for any CRRSAA funds that have been awarded. Award notifications will begin to be sent in February 2021. Students will be notified via email if they are granted an award. I am an online student; can I receive the CRRSAA grant? Yes, you will be considered for an award if you meet all other eligibility criteria. Under what circumstances might a student not qualify for this funding? A student who does not demonstrate financial need or who is ineligible to complete the FAFSA will not be granted this funding. Awards are granted based on availability of funding and demonstrated financial need. Those who do not meet the eligibility criteria for CRRSAA funding but have experienced a financial hardship are encouraged to reach out to the Office of Financial Aid. CARES Act Grant CARES funds were awarded to eligible CSU students that completed the online CARES Act Grant application in spring 2020 or who met the eligibility criteria and received an automatic one-time award in fall 2020. CARES awards were sent directly to students enrolled at CSU who met the eligibility criteria and who demonstrated exceptional need based on their FAFSA information. Eligibility for CARES Grants Eligible recipients for fall 2020 were automatically considered for CARES Act Emergency Aid funding based on eligibility requirements – no additional application was required. Students were able to apply for grants via the CARES Act Emergency Aid application on RAMweb in the spring of 2020. The CARES Act Emergency Aid Application for spring 2020 closed in the summer of 2020. Students needed to have a FAFSA on file with the university to be considered for CARES Act Emergency Aid funding, as the Office of Financial Aid uses a student’s aid application to determine eligibility for grant funding. In addition, funding prioritization was directed toward students who demonstrated the most significant financial need. Students who were not eligible to complete the FAFSA were not considered for this award, per federal guidance. Additionally, students needed to be meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements and be enrolled through a main campus regular instruction degree program to be eligible. The US Department of Education communicated that students admitted solely to online degree programs were not eligible for these grants during the 2020 aid year. Frequently Asked Questions About HEERF Grants What is the CARES Act Emergency Aid Grant? The CARES Act provides funds to institutions of higher education to provide students with emergency financial aid grants to help cover expenses related to the disruption of university operations due to coronavirus. CSU was granted $8.8 million in emergency grant funding in the spring of 2020 that was to be allocated directly to students in need. How did students receive this money? CARES Act Emergency Aid funding was sent directly to students who met the eligibility criteria for the award. Emergency grants were able to bypass any existing balance a student may have had with the university, and were sent directly to students via direct deposit or mailed check. What was the typical award amount? These grants ranged from $500-$1,500 depending on demonstrated financial need provided in a student’s financial aid application Were online students eligible to receive CARES grants? No. When did students receive refunds if granted a fall 2020 CARES award? Fall 2020 CARES Act Emergency Aid funding began disbursing directly to students after September 1, 2020. When did students receive their refunds if granted a spring 2020 CARES award? For Spring 2020, students began receiving decisions regarding their award status within 5 business days of submitting their application. The application opened May 2020 and closed in the summer of 2020. Under what circumstances would a student not qualify for a CARES grant? A student who did not demonstrate financial need, or who was ineligible to complete the FAFSA was not granted this funding. Additionally, those who were admitted solely to online degree programs were not eligible, nor were students who were not making Satisfactory Academic Progress. Students did have the opportunity to appeal the decision with the Office of Financial Aid if they were initially denied due to not demonstrating financial need. The CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants do not apply to any outstanding balance owed to the University; 100% of all HEERF Grant funds are refunded directly to students, unless students have authorized funding to apply toward their account balance. Dates and Deadlines March 1, 2022 Deadline to submit CSU Scholarship Application- The CSUSA is an online scholarship application for many of the scholarships at CSU. May 2, 2022 Request work study application available on RAMweb. May 11, 2022 Last day to accept a fall/spring direct loan (must be accepted by 3pm). ADDITIONAL DATES AND DEADLINES » Office Resources Important Dates Financial Aid Forms and Publications Financial Aid Guides Secure Document Upload Covid-19 Information Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement © 2022 Colorado State University