Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Student employees are not eligible for most benefits including holiday pay, vacation, or retirement plans. However, student employees are eligible for NJ Sick Time and Workers Compensation, detailed below. NJ Sick Time Student employees are eligible for New Jersey Sick Time. Students accrue one hour of paid sick time for every 30 hours worked. The maximum sick time accrual a student can earn is 40 hours per year. Whenever practicable, students should contact their supervisor in advance to request sick time. Students will not receive any payout for unused sick time Students can carry over up to 40 hours of unused sick time from one fiscal year to the next. A detailed Sick Time Policy can be found here. A Notice of Employee Rights is also available from the State of New Jersey. If you have questions about a student's sick time balance, please email seoffice@princeton.edu. Worker’s Compensation Students who perform work and are paid wages by the University are covered for workers’ compensation benefits as long as the injury occurs within the course and scope of employment. Worker’s Compensation covers expenses for medical care and certain benefits for loss of pay resulting from injuries or disabilities incurred while on the job. Supervisors should be contacted as soon as possible in the event of any on-the-job injuries in order to allow for completion of the necessary forms. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746