Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Scholarships & Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Menu Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Under the University of Washington’s Internal Revenue Code section 127 tax plan, an employee taking graduate level, non job-related classes is entitled to a tuition waiver of up to $5,250 in a year without tax withholding. Amounts of tuition waiver in excess of the limit are subject to a 25 percent federal income tax, plus 7.65 percent for Social Security and Medicare Tax. No tax is withheld for graduate level job-related classes or any undergraduate level classes. Student Fiscal Services monitors tuition waiver status for employees through the information submitted to the Registrar's office by the employee each quarter. The tuition waiver is calculated three times a year, during spring, summer and autumn quarters, to determine if any employees have exceeded the tuition waiver limit of $5,250 during quarters that they were enrolled in classes. A report listing any employees who have exceeded the limit is prepared for the Payroll office for tax withholding purposes. Spring quarter tax information is sent to the payroll office by June 10. Summer quarter tax information is sent to the Payroll office by August 1, and Autumn quarter tax information by November 1 of each year. The Payroll schedule for tax withholding is as follows: June 25 and July 10 pay dates for spring quarter August 25 and September 10 pay dates for summer quarter November 10 and 25 pay dates for autumn quarter Note: Under rules for withholding, the UW withholds income taxes from the balance of your wages at the 25 percent withholding rate on the amount of the tuition waiver, less the $5,250. Payroll taxes are withheld at the rate of 7.65 percent on any amount exceeding the $5,250. Employees taking graduate level classes may change their class from non job-related to job-related and vice-versa during the first seven days of the current quarter. No changes can be made for prior quarters, or after the seventh day of the current quarter. To update your class status, contact the Registration office in Schmitz Hall, room 225. In spring, summer and autumn quarters of each year, Student Fiscal Services sends out an email notice to employees who will be taxed for tuition waivers in excess of the $5,250 limit. For more information regarding tuition exemption, view the UW Administrative Policy Statement 22.1 If you have questions regarding the taxability of your tuition waiver, please email taxquest@uw.edu or call 206-221-2621 for assistance. Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA