https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Transfer Students | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Transfer Students Financial aid can help make college more affordable. We encourage all incoming students to apply for financial aid. You should file as early as you can to maximize your potential aid opportunities. By applying for financial aid, you're automatically considered for all need-based aid. You will need to reapply for financial aid every year. Important Information for Transfers Before you apply for financial aid, here are some important things you need to know: The financial aid award offer will not be final until after all official transcripts from prior schools have been received. Financial aid does not "transfer" from one school to another. However, federal and state aid received at one school will impact remaining eligibility at another school. Application Steps Transfer students should apply for financial aid by completing the following aid applications based on their transfer semester: Step 1: Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) If you wish to receive funds from any federal, state, or institutional sources, you must complete the Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) based on your starting transfer semester. Please note: Students who have been awarded funds from outside/private scholarships must also complete a GT App so that the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) may determine the proper disbursement schedule for your funds. Items Needed You will need a GT Account username and password to login to OSCAR to access the form. To activate your GT account, visit passport.gatech.edu. Students starting in the Spring and Summer 2022 semesters should complete the 2021-22 GT App. Students starting in the Fall 2022 semester should complete the 2022-23 GT App. Submit the GT App Step 2: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) In addition to the GT App, if you wish to be considered for federal aid or need-based institutional funds, you must also complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) based on your transfer semester. Our office uses the FASFA to determine whether you qualify for federal, state, or institutional funds that carry a financial need component. Please note: Georgia residents who wish to apply for the HOPE/Zell Miller Scholarship ONLY may complete the Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) instead of the FAFSA. The GT App is also required. Items Needed Georgia Tech's Title IV school code: 001569. Your social security number and, if you are a dependent student, your parents’ social security numbers. Your driver’s license number if you have one, or Alien Registration number if you are not a U.S. citizen. Federal tax information or tax returns from two years prior including IRS W-2 information, for you (and your spouse, if you are married), and for your parents if you are a dependent student. If you are selected for verification, you will need to provide the specific documentation requested based on academic year and your dependency status. Financial aid awards are not final and will not be disbursed until the verification process is complete. FAFSA processing can take up to 3 – 5 business days after completion. Students starting in the Spring and Summer 2022 semesters should complete the 2021-22 FASFA using their 2019 tax information. Students starting in the Fall 2022 semester should complete the 2022-23 FAFSA using their 2020 tax information. Submit the FAFSA Step 3: Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) – Georgia Residents Only The Georgia Student Financial Aid Application (GSFAPPS) is the state aid application for Georgia residents who want to be considered for the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarship ONLY. You do NOT need to complete the GSFAPPS if you are applying for federal financial aid and submitting the FAFSA for your transfer semester. To be considered for the HOPE or Zell Miller Scholarship, you must also complete the GT App. Students starting in the Spring and Summer 2022 semesters should complete the 2021-22 GSFAPPS. Students starting in the Fall 2022 semester should complete the 2022-23 GSFAPPS. Submit the GSFAPPS Important Dates and Deadlines The priority financial aid processing deadlines are as follows: Spring 2022 transfers – December 1, 2021 Summer 2022 transfers – March 1, 2022 Fall 2022 transfers – January 31, 2022 To be considered an “on-time” financial aid applicant, all applicable aid applications, as well as any requested documentation, must be received and complete by the deadline above. We will continue to accept late applications and documentation after the priority date, however, we strongly encourage all applicants to submit their completed applications and documentation as soon as possible so we can determine your eligibility for other types of aid. Next Steps Learn about the financial aid award process, including information on how aid is determined, instructions for accepting your awards, and more! The Award Process Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology