Skip to content MenuClose Utility navigation Action navigation Primary navigation Types of AidToggle sub menu Types of AidToggle sub menu Apply for AidToggle sub menu Apply for AidToggle sub menu How Aid Is CalculatedToggle sub menu How Aid Is CalculatedToggle sub menu Making the Most of Your AidToggle sub menu Making the Most of Your AidToggle sub menu Forms & ResourcesToggle sub menu Forms & ResourcesToggle sub menu Types of Aid IN THIS SECTION Types of Aid Loading... Types of Aid When you first receive your financial aid offer, it will most likely contain a grant, a federal loan, and work study. If you later receive other types of aid, like outside scholarships, they will affect your original aid offer. Read on to learn more about all the types of aid. The three most common forms of aid are grants, loans, and work study. Loading... Grants Grants are funds you don't have to pay back. Grants can come from Duke, the federal government, or other sources, and all grants managed by our office are based only on your family's financial circumstances (need). All students who apply for aid are considered for need-based grant funding. Grant Aid Loading... Loans Loans are funds you have to pay back. You can find loans in the student's or parent's name, and they are offered by the federal government and a variety of lenders. Loans Loading... Work Study Work study is a job; you'll find a position and work hours, and your paycheck will be deposited into your bank account. There's an incredible variety of work-study jobs out there, and you can gain valuable experience and networking opportunities! Work Study Additional Types of Aid Loading... Outside Scholarships Outside scholarships are offered by a wide variety of organizations. Learn more about how to find them and how they affect your financial aid. Outside Scholarships Loading... Tuition Benefits Tuition benefits are typically offered as a benefit to a student's parent by their employer. Tuition benefits replace Duke grants dollar for dollar. Tuition Benefits Loading... Veterans Benefits If you're eligible for veterans benefits either through your own service or that of a parent, learn more about how you can use these benefits here at Duke. Veterans Benefits Loading... Merit Scholarships All students who apply to Duke are considered for merit scholarships. The Office of University Scholars and Fellows selects merit scholars. Merit Scholarships Loading... Being a Resident Assistant If you're a Resident Assistant, your RA award will affect your financial aid. Read on to learn how. Being a Resident Assistant Loading... Other Types of Aid Read on about less common types of aid like Americorps and ROTC scholarships. Other Types of Aid Stay Connected Have questions? Let us know how we can help. Contact Us Footer navigation Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support PO Box 90397, Durham, NC 27708 Financial Aid Fax: (919) 660-9811 · Office Hours: 8:00 - 5:00 Mon-Fri · Phone Hours: 8:30 - 4:30 Mon-Fri finaid@duke.edu 919-684-6225 Copyright © 2022 Duke University Privacy Statement