Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Check Your Application Supplemental Forms Admissions Financial Aid Contact Us Financial.Aid@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Apply for Aid Prospective & Transfer Students How to Apply for Aid Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Financing Options Current Students Reapplying for Aid First-Time Application Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Selected for Federal Verification Financing Options Graduate Students Graduate Aid Overview Federal Loan Information Veteran Students International Students Undocumented Students Back to Top Nav How Aid Works Introduction to Financial Aid The D-Plan & Aid Study Abroad 2-Term/4-Term D-Plans Exchange Programs Transfer Terms Leave Terms How Much Help Will I Get? Understanding Your Award Back to Top Nav FAQS Policies & Resources Financial Aid Handbook Consumer Information Code of Conduct Federal Websites News and Announcements Back to Top Nav Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator Net Price Calculators Back to Top Nav Federal Verification How Federal Verification Works Data Retrieval or Tax Transcript? IRS Data Retrieval IRS Tax Transcript Data To Be Verified Verification FAQs Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Have questions? The Financial Aid Office is open walk-in vistors and in-person meetings. We continue to welcome students to drop into our Remote Zoom Drop In Office Hours, or to schedule a Zoom appointment. As always, you can contact us via email at Financial.aid@dartmouth.edu, or by phone at 603-646-2451. PreviousNext How Aid Works Our commitment: To make the full experience of a Dartmouth education affordable for you and your family. This promise is good for all four years. Zero Parent Contribution Families with total annual income below $65,000, who possess typical assets, will have a zero parent contribution expectation. learn more Making Dartmouth Affordable to the Most Talented Students Read more here. Net Price Calculator Use the Net Price Calculator here to get an estimate of what it might cost you to attend Dartmouth.learn more Aid & Studying Abroad Our financial aid travels with you if you study abroad through one of Dartmouth's programs. Tuition and expected family contribution for our 40+ off-campus programs are the same as for an on-campus term. How Much Help Will I Get? Starting with the Class of '26, families making under $125,000 who possess typical assets, will receive scholarship that covers at least the cost of tuition. Loans are also available if needed.learn more Quick Links Remote Zoom Drop-in Hours Reapply for Financial Aid Review Our Financial Aid Policies Dplan Changes and Impacts to aid Quick Links Financial Aid Travels With You for Off Campus Programs Cost of Attendance Understanding Your Award Frequently Asked Questions Main menu Dartmouth College Financial Aid Apply for Aid Prospective & Transfer Students How to Apply for Aid Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Financing Options Current Students Reapplying for Aid First-Time Application Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Selected for Federal Verification Financing Options Graduate Students Graduate Aid Overview Federal Loan Information Veteran Students International Students Undocumented Students How Aid Works Introduction to Financial Aid The D-Plan & Aid Study Abroad 2-Term/4-Term D-Plans Exchange Programs Transfer Terms Leave Terms How Much Help Will I Get? Understanding Your Award FAQS Policies & Resources Financial Aid Handbook Consumer Information Code of Conduct Federal Websites News and Announcements Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator Net Price Calculators Federal Verification How Federal Verification Works Data Retrieval or Tax Transcript? IRS Data Retrieval IRS Tax Transcript Data To Be Verified Verification FAQs Check Your Application Supplemental Forms Admissions Ribbon Footer The return on investment will be enormous. For you, for Dartmouth, and for the world you will transform. Investing in your future and the worlds The MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator is a tool to help families estimate their out of pocket expenses to attend Dartmouth College. Quick Cost Estimator Dartmouth ranks as one of the best value schools in the nation, and is committed to making your aspirations a reality. Best value school Close Work-study postings and other part-time jobs. Discover new employment opportunities on and off campus. Student Employment Office All you need to know about your bill, refunds, and Dartmouth Loans. Plus, check out the Billing Office's latest news bulletins. Student Financial Services Learn how you might become a member of this vibrant community. Application information for all prospective students. Admissions Close People Director G. Dino Koff Find Us Address Dartmouth College 6024 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-2451 Fax: (603) 646-1414 HB: HB 6024 Email: Financial.Aid@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Close Quick Cost Estimator Related Sites Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback