Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Appeal Process for Aid Offers Breadcrumb Home Apply for Aid Appeal Process for Aid Offers Brown has an appeal process for requesting reconsideration of offers if a significant change in a family's financial circumstances can be documented, or there are special circumstances that were not considered initially. Brown has an appeal process for requesting reconsideration of an offer for both domestic and international students. The Financial Aid Appeal form and International petition to apply are the student’s tool for providing information critical to the review of the appeal. If a brief letter or email would be more appropriate for explaining the circumstance, students can send the information in that format. Students will be notified via email of the appeal decision. Submission of an appeal does not guarantee an adjustment to a student's offer. If a student has received a need-based financial aid offer from another institution that is substantially different from the Brown offer, we encourage the student to provide our office with a copy of the other school's offer letter. Keep in mind that financial aid offers from institutions that offer merit or athletic scholarships may differ greatly from a Brown financial aid offer. As a member of the Ivy League, Brown does not offer merit or athletic scholarships. Use Brown's document upload feature to send a copy of the offer letter to our office. Changes in Financial Circumstances Back to Top If your family experiences a significant or unexpected change after receiving your initial financial aid offer for the academic year, or if you believe there are special circumstances that were not considered in the initial review of your financial aid application, please notify us in writing. Use the Appeal Form to help you explain and document special circumstances such as a significant and unexpected change in income due to job loss, salary reduction or a change in benefits. Understanding the Appeal Process In the appeal, include details about unique circumstances, how this will impact your family's income and/or expenses, and when these circumstances occurred. Include as much documentation as possible; for example, letters from third parties, pay stubs, canceled checks and billing statements. About two weeks after the appeal is submitted, students will receive written notification of the appeal decision. Submitting an appeal does not guarantee an adjustment to a student's financial aid offer. In most cases, the appeal process provides our office with comprehensive information regarding how the changes have affected your ability to contribute to educational expenses. If you feel a brief letter or email would be more appropriate to explain your circumstance, feel free to send the information in that format. Contact the Office of Financial Aid if you have questions about the appeal process. International Student Appeal Policy Back to Top A limited number of international students who do not receive University Scholarship at the time of admission may petition to apply for financial aid in the following extenuating circumstances: Death of a wage-earning parent Civil war in the student’s home country Natural geological disaster in the student’s home country that impacts the family Additionally, in extremely rare cases, if an international student has completed at least four semesters at Brown, and their family has experienced a substantial and sustained financial loss that jeopardizes the student’s ability to complete their undergraduate education at Brown, the student may petition to apply for financial aid. In cases in which international students have third-party sponsors who help pay for their education, the loss of funding from a sponsor does not, by itself, constitute a substantial financial loss in the evaluation of financial aid eligibility and therefore is not an event that warrants a petition. If an international student experiences any of the eligible circumstances outlined above, the student may consider submitting a petition to apply. Questions regarding this process should be directed to the Office of Financial Aid. In any year, the number of petitions granted will be limited by the amount of need-based University Scholarships available to fund such petitions. A determination will be made by the Office of Financial Aid on both the outcome of the petition to apply and the potential amount of University scholarship. University Scholarship awarded through this petition process is for the fall and spring terms only. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Appeal Process for Aid Offers Open details for Appeal Process for Aid Offers Bookmark this Page