https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Finalize Your Federal Loans | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Finalize Your Federal Loans Steps to Finalize Loans To finalize loans that appear on your Award Notice, complete the following steps. Requirements can also be viewed in OSCAR. To review, select "My Eligibility & Requirements" from the Financial Aid box, and complete document(s) at the Federal Student Aid website. Step 1: Federal Loan Forms (complete every year) Complete the form below for the appropriate year based on your federal loan type. Federal Direct Student Loan borrowers – complete the online Direct Student Loan Certification. Direct Parent PLUS Loan borrowers – complete the Direct Parent Plus Loan Application. The borrower of the PLUS is your PARENT and requires credit approval. Additional steps are required for all borrowers and will be available June 1. Graduate Students – complete the Direct Grad Plus Application. Step 2: Student Loan Entrance Counseling (complete once) Before you can receive funds from your Direct Student Loan, it is very important that you know and understand your rights and responsibilities as a student borrower. You must complete a counseling session required by federal regulation. This step is required for the Subsidized and Unsubsidized Direct Student Loans and for the Graduate PLUS loan. It is not required for the Parent PLUS loan. You do not have to wait to complete this requirement, and we strongly encourage you to complete this requirement as soon as possible to avoid disbursement delays. Complete Counseling Step 3: Master Promissory Note (complete once) The Master Promissory Note (MPN) is a legal document in which you promise to repay your loan(s) to the U.S. Department of Education. It also explains the terms and conditions of your loan(s). Sign the electronic MPN now or on receipt of your notice. Please allow 2-3 days for your MPN requirements to appear “satisfied” in OSCAR. Sign the MPN Step 4: Direct Deposit (complete once, unless information changes) Sign up for Direct Deposit. See the Office of the Bursar for details. Deadlines: during registration period. Step 5: Register for Classes (complete every semester) Register for at least six credit hours. Disbursements to eligible students begin on the Wednesday before the first day of class. Deadlines: during registration period. Important Deadlines Complete the appropriate loan forms, entrance counseling, and Master Promissory Note by the deadline below based on semester. Fall – July 31 Spring – December 1 Summer – April 1 Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology