Skip to content MenuClose Utility navigation Action navigation Primary navigation Types of AidToggle sub menu Types of AidToggle sub menu Apply for AidToggle sub menu Apply for AidToggle sub menu How Aid Is CalculatedToggle sub menu How Aid Is CalculatedToggle sub menu Making the Most of Your AidToggle sub menu Making the Most of Your AidToggle sub menu Forms & ResourcesToggle sub menu Forms & ResourcesToggle sub menu Apply for Aid IN THIS SECTION Apply for Aid Loading... I'm applying for admission to Duke Are you applying for admission? Continue reading on this page to learn more about the financial aid application steps, the timeline for the process, and more. Show me how it works Loading... I'm a current Duke student Current Duke students renew their aid applications every year. Click the link below to learn more about what you'll need to submit for your renewal application. Renew Your Aid Did you know? You'll submit a new aid application each year you're at Duke, with updated income and asset information. If your family's financial circumstances remain similar year to year, you can expect your aid to be similar as well. How It Works Loading... 1. Estimate Determine your approximate cost. Estimate Your Aid Loading... 2. Apply Complete your application. Steps for applying Loading... 3. Review Receive and review your financial aid offer with your offer of admission. Your Aid Offer Estimate your cost Use our interactive cost calculators to get a sense of how much aid you might be eligible for. My Intuition Calculator Net Price Calculator Loading... Determine your next steps Learn more about the steps necessary for you to complete your financial aid application on the Admissions website. Visit the Admissions site November 16: Early Decision Deadline Complete your FAFSA and CSS Profile and have any additional documents (like your taxes) submitted to us by November 16 for Early Decision. February 1: Regular Decision Deadline Complete your FAFSA and CSS Profile and have any additional documents (like your taxes) submitted to us by February 1 for Regular Decision. What if I don't complete the financial aid application by the deadline? If your aid application isn't complete by the deadline, you might not receive your financial aid offer when you receive your offer of admission. We'll keep processing financial aid applications as they come in, however, so please get your FAFSA and CSS Profile (and any extra documents) in as soon as you can! Stay Connected Have questions? Let us know how we can help. Contact Us Footer navigation Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support PO Box 90397, Durham, NC 27708 Financial Aid Fax: (919) 660-9811 · Office Hours: 8:00 - 5:00 Mon-Fri · Phone Hours: 8:30 - 4:30 Mon-Fri finaid@duke.edu 919-684-6225 Copyright © 2022 Duke University Privacy Statement