https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Information for Federal Work Study Employers | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Information for Federal Work Study Employers The Federal Work-Study (FWS) Program provides jobs for undergraduate and graduate students who demonstrate need for financial assistance. The FWS program gives students an opportunity to earn money to help pay for educational expenses. FWS Employment (75 percent Federal Share – 25 percent Departmental Share) is partially funded by the federal government. Funds are awarded based on financial need and are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, until all funds are exhausted. Video not supported. Hiring Procedures Submit a Position Request Form (PSF) to post a new position or rehire a FWS student that previously worked for you. Contact and interview the students that have applied. Before you offer employment, make sure the student has been awarded FWS by asking the student to provide copy of their award notice. The student will be able to print off a copy of their award notice from OSCAR. Once the award is confirmed, you may offer the position. The department's HR Coordinator/ Financial Administrator will then need to confirm that a position has been created for the student and the position’s funding is set up correctly prior to submitting a Direct Hire form or transferring a student. Once the Direct Hire form is approved, the student will need to complete the onboarding process with OHR if the student has never worked for Georgia Tech. Please inform the student that ORIGINAL documentation for the I-9 form is needed. Copies are not accepted. When the student has completed all OHR paperwork and it has been processed. then they may begin working. All FWS students must fill out an electronic time document in OneUSG at the end of each pay period to be compensated. No other form or system of reporting time worked may be used. How do I post a FWS position? To request a FWS student for the academic year, you must complete the Position Request Form (PRF) and send it our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu. Approved positions will be posted on the FWS Job Board section of our website. As the supervisor, it is your responsibility to make sure the potential student is not already working within the Georgia Tech payroll system before offering a position. It is also your responsibility to make sure the student has been awarded FWS before the position is offered. Please note: There is no guarantee that there will be enough students in the FWS program to fill all positions. Students make their own selections when applying for jobs. How will students apply for positions? Starting in early August, eligible students will be able to access the FWS Job Board. If a student is interested in a position, they will reach out to the listed supervisor directly via email, providing their availability, experience, and resume where possible. If you require an additional application, please provide a link to it on the Position Request Form (PRF) so students may go ahead and apply in addition to emailing you. In response to a student's inquiry, you should notify them if the position is still open and arrange an interview when possible. To the interview, students should bring a copy of their financial aid award letter showing FWS in order to confirm their eligibility. If you want to hire an eligible student, you must initiate a Personal Services Form (PSF). Please send your completed PSF electronically to our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu for approval. When can students start working? Approved FWS students may begin working once they have accepted the position and all necessary OHR paperwork is completed. Review the following important dates for each semester: Semester First Day - Last Day You Can Work Fall 2021 August 23 - December 17, 2021 Spring 2022 January 10 - May 7, 2022 Summer 2022 May 16 - August 6, 2022 How many hours may a student work? FWS students are limited to working a maximum of 20 hours per week during periods of enrollment, and a maximum of 40 hours per week during periods of non-enrollment (pre-approval required by OSFA for periods of non-enrollment). FWS students are expected to adhere to a work schedule agreed upon by both the student and their supervisor. Students are not permitted to work during hours when they are scheduled to be in class, even when a class is canceled or dismissed early. Since the FWS program is a need-based program, it is important that students do not go over their total allotted hours for the semester as this could result in a Financial Aid over award. For this reason, if a student works over the allotted hours, their earnings must be paid out of the supervisor's budget. Please note: While supervisors are not responsible for keeping track of FWS student employee's time, you are responsible for how much the students is earning. FWS students may not earn more than their awarded amount each semester, so please plan the student's hours accordingly. Can students continue to work after their FWS funding runs out? Yes. If your department is able/willing to pay the student's full wages out of your department accounts, then the student can continue to work after their FWS funding runs out. Please note: You must submit a data change PSF that reflects the change from FWS to BWS. Late Time Sheets It is your responsibility as the supervisor, as well as the student's responsibility, to submit time documents in a timely manner. If time documents are submitted late, the OSFA will request a written explanation for the occurrence. Repeated occurrences may jeopardize the student's eligibility and your department's eligibility to participate in the FWS program. Off Cycle Checks We do not allow off cycle checks. If your department desires to do an off cycle check, you will need to email the FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu. In your email, please provide an explanation as to why you are requesting an off cycle check with supporting documentation. At that point, we will communicate next steps with you and the FWS student(s). Pay Rates and Raises If you would like to raise a FWS student's pay rate, it must first be cleared with the FWS team before taking effect. All pay raises should be based on the length of the student's employment in the current position and the responsibilities assigned to the position. Pay raises usually range from 25 cents to 50 cents after the first year of employment. Pay rates must fall within the designated FWS Position Type as indicated on the Position Request Form (PRF) submitted. Pay rates should also be in denominations of 25 cents. Can a FWS student be terminated? Yes. Students can be be dismissed from a FWS position just like any other type of job. If the student is not performing their job appropriately or has attendance issues, you must provide a verbal warning, then written warning before termination can occur. If a student is terminated, you must submit a PSF. Questions regarding dismissal can be directed to OHR. Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology