Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Search Financial Aid Funding The Office of Financial Aid works closely with students to identify funding sources and provide individualized counseling. Sub Navigation In This Section Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Managing Your Investment Learn more about how to manage your expenses and minimize medical education debt. Resources for financial wellness Funding The Office of Financial Aid works closely with students to identify funding sources and provide individualized counseling. The determination of need is actually a simple calculation. We first build your budget, Cost of Attendance (COA). This includes an estimated guide for yearly living expenses in addition to tuition and fees paid to Brown. So, the formula looks like this: Cost of Attendance - Family Contribution = Need If you apply for AMS institutional and federal aid, a contribution from both you (and your spouse, if applicable) and your parent(s) are displayed on your aid notification letter. The threshold to qualify for AMS aid is determined both by your COA and assessed family contribution. If you apply for federal aid only (Direct Unsub and Grad PLUS loans) we calculate a contribution from you (and your spouse, if applicable) based upon your income and asset information before determining your financial need. Parental information is not considered. Regardless of whether you apply for institutional or federal aid, your aid notification letter displays the amounts for which you are eligible. Aid notification letters are ready for students in late April for those who have applied by March 1. Late filing may jeopardize receipt of institutional aid. Your aid package will consist of one or more of the following: AMS Scholarships and Loans AMS scholarships and loans are funding from The Warren Alpert Medical School sources. Need is first met with a combination of loans called the base loan (which includes Direct Unsubsidized loans and AMS loan funds). All remaining need is met with AMS scholarship. AMS aid, therefore, includes the following: The Warren Alpert Medical School Scholarships The Warren Alpert Medical School Merit Scholarships The Warren Alpert Medical School Loans (Ellwood, Medical, Plitt, etc.) Sample Federal Financial Aid Package Federal Loans Students may apply to borrow two types of federal loans by completing the FAFSA with prior-prior year income and present day asset and household information. Available federal loans for medical students up to the Cost of Attendance consist of: Unsubsidized Direct Loans Graduate PLUS Loans (credit approval needed). Apply at the federal student loans site under the Graduate/Professional Students tab. Please Apply for a PLUS Loan, receive instant credit decision, then Complete Loan Agreement for a PLUS Loan (MPN) and Entrance Counseling before logging out. Please visit the Brown Loan Office site for more Graduate PLUS Loan Requirements and Loan Request information. Sample Federal Financial Aid Package Entrance counseling and Master Promissory Notes must be completed for each type of federal loan when you are a first time borrower with Brown University. These loan requirements remain valid up to 10 years. Private Loans We have recently added a private loan marketplace, Fast Choice, comprised of private commercial lenders for the purpose of financing medical school costs in conjunction with Brown University. Please visit the Fast Choice website for private loan comparisons. Consider discussing your options with us prior to accepting your loans. Loans available are: Fixed and Variable interest rate loans for medical school years Residency and Relocation Loans for fourth year medical student costs You may view your aid package and make borrowing decisions online by accessing your student account at the Self-Service Banner (SSB). You will be asked to decline any loans or loan amount that you are not interested in borrowing. Please note that once you have made your borrowing decisions in Self-Service Banner, any changes to loans that you want to make throughout the academic year must be communicated to the Financial Aid office. Please review our Aid Notification Guide, which describes how an aid package is determined, components of the aid package, loan processing and disbursement dates, billing schedule, and refunds. Aid Notification Guide Managing Your Investment Learn more about how to manage your expenses and minimize medical education debt. Resources for financial wellness Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Funding Open details for Funding Bookmark this Page