Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Satisfactory Academic Progress Undergraduate Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (UFA SAP) Policy According to federal regulations, the Undergraduate Financial Aid (UFA) Office must confirm that students are meeting minimum eligibility requirements to receive Federal Student Aid (FSA) funds. UFA performs this review at the end of each semester. This review process and the required standards are separate from the review conducted by the Faculty Committee on Examinations and Standings. Students that are not meeting all of the UFA SAP requirements will lose Federal Student Aid eligibility (federal grants, loans, and work study) until the requirements are met again. However, as long as they are meeting Princeton’s academic requirements, Princeton will continue to meet 100% of students’ financial need with grant. Information regarding the academic standards for progress can be found in the Undergraduate Announcement. UFA SAP Standards Qualitative Measurement This standard measures the quality of a student’s academic achievement. Since Princeton University does not calculate official grade point averages, Undergraduate Financial Aid considers students to have the equivalent of at least a C-average if they have received satisfactory grades in at least half of their attempted courses each semester. An unsatisfactory grade is anything less than a C for the qualitative measure for federal financial aid. Students who have fallen below the minimum qualitative requirement can regain eligibility once they have earned satisfactory grades in at least half of their cumulative courses. Quantitative Measurement This standard measures a student’s progress toward graduation. AB students are required to complete 31 courses to graduate and BSE students must complete 36 courses in eight semesters of study. The UFA SAP process uses standards based the academic progress required by the Faculty Committee on Examinations and Standings, as published in the UA. This required progress is higher than the minimum federal requirement. This table provides a detailed breakdown of the course completion requirements for UFA SAP at the end of each term in progress: AB Year Term in Progress Min # Required Completed Courses First Year 1 3 2 7 Second Year 3 11 4 16 Third Year 5 19 6 24 Fourth Year 7 27 8 31 BSE Year Term in Progress Min # Required Completed Courses First Year 1 3 2 8 Second Year 3 12 4 17 Third Year 5 21 6 26 Fourth Year 7 31 8 36 Students who have fallen below the minimum quantitative requirement can regain eligibility once they have completed the number of required courses for their term in progress. Courses that are transferred in will be included in the next UFA SAP evaluation process. Maximum Timeframe Federal regulations dictate that the maximum timeframe for students to complete their degree is 150% of the published length of the program. Due to Princeton’s academic policy, students will never meet the federal maximum timeframe. This will be confirmed during each UFA SAP review process. UFA SAP Statuses and Notifications Students meeting both measurements are considered “meeting UFA SAP.” Students not meeting at least one of the measurements are considered “not meeting UFA SAP.” Students who lose eligibility for FSA funds and would switch to the “not meeting UFA SAP” status will automatically be placed in a “Financial Aid Warning” status instead. The warning status extends students’ eligibility for FSA funds for one semester. If, after being in the “Financial Aid Warning” status for one semester, students are still not meeting both measurements, they will switch to “not meeting UFA SAP” and lose FSA eligibility. If students are meeting the minimum requirements after the one-semester warning status, they will switch to “meeting UFA SAP” and continue to receive FSA funds as eligible. Students’ status as of the last UFA SAP review will be published on their My Financial Aid Portal. Students on aid whose status changes after the review will also receive an email notification letting them know about the change in their UFA SAP status. Appeals are not considered. There is no probation period available for students. Student will be eligible for Title IV aid again once they are meeting both the qualitative and quantitative measures. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746