Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Veteran Benefit Support Breadcrumb Home Types of Financial Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Veteran Benefit Support Brown continues its commitment to veterans and their families by collaborating with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs in support of the following programs: Post - 9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) Yellow Ribbon Program Veteran Readiness and Employment (VRE - Chapter 31) Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance (Chapter 35) Brown's Undergraduate Student Veteran Initiatives for 2022-23 Brown will consider all prospective, undergraduate student veterans on a need-blind basis, eliminating any consideration of an applicant’s ability to pay from the admission decision. Yellow Ribbon Program awards will increase to cover 100% of mandatory tuition and fees for eligible, undergraduate student veterans and dependents of eligible veterans. Brown will replace all student contributions previously expected from undergraduate student veterans and/or their spouses with a combination of benefits from the VA, University Scholarship, and/or federal grants, fully covering the student’s Cost of Attendance each academic year. **This initiative will not apply to dependents of veterans**. Undergraduate student veterans and dependents of eligible veterans need not be a recipient of need-based aid to receive eligible benefits. Please note that student veterans are required to use any and all eligible benefits prior to receiving University funding. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. More information about VA education benefits is available at the VA website. Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits (Chapter 33) Up to $26,381 annually towards the cost of mandatory tuition and fees A monthly housing allowance equal to the basic allowance for housing payable to an E-5 with dependents, in the same zip code as the school Yearly books and supplies stipend of up to $1,000 per year To determine if you are eligible for this program, please contact the VA. Yellow Ribbon Program Benefits The Yellow Ribbon Program is a subset of the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Brown undergraduate students who receive Post 9/11 GI Bill Benefits may also be eligible for the Yellow Ribbon Program. Brown will support an unlimited number of eligible undergraduate Yellow Ribbon recipients for the academic year 2022-23. This support applies to eligible veterans and dependents of eligible veterans. Mandatory tuition and fees will be covered 100% by a combination of Post-9/11 G.I. Bill benefits, Yellow Ribbon scholarship from Brown, and matching funds from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Funding maximums will vary if a student is enrolled less than full-time. To determine if you are eligible for this program, please contact the VA. Veteran Readiness and Employment (VRE) As eligibility for Chapter 31 (VRE) varies, please contact the VA to determine benefit entitlement. A monthly sustenance allowance is paid each month and is based on the rate of attendance (full-time or part-time), the number of dependents, and the type of training. The Process Students must be admitted or currently enrolled in an undergraduate degree program. Students must apply for eligible benefits with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Students must forward a Certificate of Eligibility or the Transfer of Entitlement from the VA to the Office of Financial Aid. Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance (Chapter 35) benefits must be reported to the Office of Financial Aid. Additional Information All VA educational benefits, including allowances for room and board, books, tuition, and Yellow Ribbon funding, will be coordinated with other University and federal financial aid funds as part of the total financial aid package. Certification of enrollment with the VA will be completed through the Registrar's Office. University Contact Information For questions related to eligibility and veteran support, visit the Office of Military-Affiliated Students website. For questions related to VA funding for undergraduates, contact the Office of Financial Aid at financial_aid@brown.edu. For assistance in certification of enrollment at Brown, contact the Registrar's Office at registrar@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Veteran Benefit Support Open details for Veteran Benefit Support Bookmark this Page