Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Search Financial Aid Apply for Aid All the tools, documents, and steps you need to start the process of applying for financial aid. Sub Navigation In This Section MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions External Scholarships and Loan Opportunities Before you apply for aid, be sure to look through some of our other funding options to make your process as successful as possible. External Scholarships and Loan Opportunities Apply for Aid All the tools, documents, and steps you need to start the process of applying for financial aid. Quick Links Accessing Your Student Record A helpful portal to keep track of your information during the application process. Visit Page Open details for Accessing Your Student Record Forms and Documents Everything you need to take control of the financial process, all in one well-organized place. Visit Page Open details for Forms and Documents Frequently Asked Questions Got questions? Of course you do. Answers to many of the most common inquiries can be found here. Visit Page Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Understanding Your Options The Warren Alpert Medical School Office of Financial Aid offers several types of aid to enable you to pursue your educational goals. The type of aid you receive will vary depending on the program you pursue. Medical Program Medical students may be eligible to receive AMS aid and/or Federal Aid. AMS Aid consists of need-based scholarship and loans that are determined through a federally approved formula. Federal Aid is composed of two types of loans, Direct Unsubsidized Loan and Grad PLUS loan The Direct Unsubsidized Loan has an interest rate of 5.28% The Graduate PLUS loan has an interest rate of 6.28% Students must complete the 2022-23 FASFA in order to receive either type of aid. Master’s Program For those pursuing one of the BioMed Master’s Programs, only federal loans or private loan sources are available. The Direct Unsubsidized Direct loans up to $20,500 and The Graduate PLUS Loans up to the Cost of Attendance You must complete the 2022-23 FASFA in order to receive federal aid. Private Loans All students are eligible to receive a private loan upon credit approval. We have recently added a private loan information tool, Fast Choice, comprised of private commercial lenders for the purpose of financing school costs in conjunction with Brown University. Please visit the Fast Choice website for private loan comparisons. Consider discussing your options with us prior to accepting your loans. Fast Choice Website Your Right to Know: Disclosures Code of Conduct for Educational Loans Consumer Information Preferred Lender List Policy on Satisfactory Academic Progress for Receipt of Federal Financial Aid* Policy on Withdrawals and the Return of Title IV Funds** *Page 66 of Medical Student Handbook **Page 72 of Medical Student Handbook External Scholarships and Loan Opportunities Before you apply for aid, be sure to look through some of our other funding options to make your process as successful as possible. External Scholarships and Loan Opportunities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Cost & Budgeting Cost of Attendance How Aid is Disbursed and Bills are Paid Funding Federal Loans Medical School Loans External Scholarships & Loan Opportunities Time Away "ASP/LOA" Apply for Aid MD Program Forms and Documents Bio Med Master's Programs Accessing Your Student Record FAFSA Guidance Frequently Asked Questions Financial Wellness Financial Literacy Resources Graduating Students & Residents Month-by-Month To-Do List Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Apply for Aid Open details for Apply for Aid Bookmark this Page