Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Tuition & Fees Pay Tuition & Fees Pay Tuition & Fees Menu Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees When Tuition is Due Academic Student Employees (ASE) Tuition Exemptions and Reductions U-Pass Fee Returned or Nonsufficient Payments Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Student Fiscal Services, located in 129 Schmitz Hall, is open for in-person services Mon-Fri, 1200pm - 400pm. Staff are also available to answer questions and support students via email at sfshelp@uw.edu, live chat at finance.uw.edu/sfs/home or via phone (206) 543-4694 from 10:00am - 4:00pm. If applicable, please include your UW student ID number when contacting our office. For the most up to date information about impacts to the UW from COVID-19, please see the FAQ. ALERT: Credit Card Scam Impacting International Students For more information, please visit Credit Card Scam Targeting International Students. Topics Covered How to Pay Your Tuition How Payments/Financial Aid is Applied to Your Account Web Check Payment Rejected Payment Paying in Person/Mailing Payments Credit Card Payment ACH/Wire Payments International Student Payment How to Pay Your Tuition Pay online by viewing your statement or see the other options below. If you see a CR on your tuition statement (e.g. $17.00CR) this means there is a credit balance; contact Student Fiscal Services for a refund. Do not pay if your balance shows a "CR". Important: Student Fiscal Services will only accept payments for tuition and fees for the current academic quarters. Due to banking requirements, funds submitted in excess of outstanding balances may result in the payment being rejected and returned to the payer in its entirety. Excess payments may be rejected even if the extra funds are intended for use for books, off-campus housing, or other living expenses. How Payments and Financial Aid are Applied to Your Account Payments are applied to charges on your tuition account in order of the charge due dates. For charges with the same due date, payments are applied first to tuition and related University fees and then to other charges on your account. You may request that a payment be applied to a specific charge when paying in person at the Student Fiscal Services Office. If you have been assessed a fee for late payment of tuition, financial aid can not be used to pay this fee. You will need to make a separate payment to cover this charge. Web Check Payment Students make a webcheck payment here. Parents make a webcheck payment here. Tuition and related charges may be paid online using your checking or savings account. A Web Check payment results in an electronic debit of your bank account. (Please verify that your bank allows electronic debiting before attempting to make a webcheck payment.) After the Web Check payment has been posted to your student account, it will be sent to your bank for processing. Depending on your bank, the transaction could take from 1-10 business days to be deducted from your bank account. Before submitting payment, verify your account and routing number, amount and type of account are correct. Once payment has been submitted, UW cannot cancel/edit the payment under any circumstances. Info needed for web check payment: UW student ID Bank routing number (valid routing numbers usually begin with the first two digits of 01-12, 21-32, or 61-72) Bank account number Need help making your webcheck payment? Read our how-to instructions. Rejected Payments If your payment is returned as unpaid by your bank for any reason, your student account will be assessed a returned item fee of $25. Late payment fees may be added if the returned item causes the account not to be paid by the tuition due date. Student Fiscal Services reserves the right to disable the ability to use Web Check due to returned items. Payments may be returned by banks for many reasons including: Lack of sufficient funds Use of an incorrect or invalid bank routing or account number The account has been closed or frozen The account is a non-transaction account The bank does not participate in automated clearing house (ACH) transactions Paying in Person Student Fiscal Services personnel are available in-office for informational and document processing purposes only. Check payments can be dropped off in the payment box in our lobby or in the drop box located on the exterior of Schmitz Hall near the doors on the north side. By Mail Checks for tuition payments should be mailed to: University of Washington - Tuition P.O. Box 3981 Seattle, WA 98124-3981 Make your check payable to the University of Washington. Be sure to include your seven-digit student number written clearly on the (front) of your check. If your name is not printed on the check, please write your name on the front so that your tuition account will be properly credited. Payments must be received by Student Fiscal Services by the tuition due date. Payments received after the due date will be subject to late charges and / or holds on your academic records. Scholarship checks should be mailed to: University of Washington - Scholarships PO Box 24967 Seattle, WA 98124-0967 Forms and other paperwork should be mailed to: UW Student Fiscal Services 1400 NE Campus Parkway Box 355870 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Credit Card Payment (internet only) Make a credit card payment here. Credit cards may be used to pay tuition and related fees online only. There are no options to make payment for tuition and related fees with a credit card in person. Debit card holders should contact their bank to identify their routing and account numbers, and make use of the free Web Check payment option listed at the top of this page. The following card brands are accepted: Visa MasterCard American Express Discover Diners Club JCB Union Pay BCcard DinaCard The University works with an external vendor-TouchNet PayPath to process credit card payments. The service is available online 24-hours a day, 7-days a week, and a convenience fee of 2.75% (minimum $3.00) is assessed for each transaction. This fee will be added to your total payment and is non-refundable. The convenience fee is displayed prior to completion of your transaction. Your completion of the transaction acknowledges your acceptance of these payment terms. Completion of your payment transaction is contingent upon successful authorization and payment of this transaction by your card company/bank. Please note that once a payment is made with a credit/debit card, UW cannot cancel the payment even if an error in amount is made. Important: Credit card payments become eligible for refund 30 days after the date of payment. Contact our office if a credit balance appears on your MyUW tuition account. International Student Payment Options University of Washington has partnered with Flywire to provide our international students with a secure payment method that simplifies the payment process. With Flywire, you can pay online from banks and countries around the world, usually in your home currency. Pay with accounts in your home country, in your currency for most countries. Offers payment methods like bank transfer, credit cards and e-payments (Alipay/PayPal) making the process familiar and easy for you. Avoid unnecessary bank fees and receive favorable foreign exchange rates. Track the progress of your payment anytime. Flywire’s multilingual CUSTOMER SUPPORT is available to help 24x7 using multiple channels. To begin your payment, click the button below. This will take you to University of Washington’s Flywire payment site where you will follow the instructions provided by Flywire to complete the payment. Or, just go to https://washington.flywire.com FLYWIRE CUSTOMER SUPPORT Email: support@flywire.com Website: https://help.flywire.com/ How to Pay Video: https://vimeo.com/153781014 The University of Washington has partnered with Western Union Business Solutions to facilitate wire transfer payments from a non-U.S. bank account. This payment option allows you to pay your student account balance in a number of currencies, provides a secure way of initiating payments electronically and incorporates pertinent student information to ensure timely crediting of the payment to the student’s bill. Global Pay Portal ACH/Wire Payments (International Students Only) If you would like to pay by wire transfer please contact sfshelp@uw.edu to obtain the banking information. Please ensure that you include the UW student’s full name, student number, and invoice (if applicable) in the wire. For International students and sponsors, we recommend FlyWire or Western Union as a more reliable method to make your payment. Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees When Tuition is Due Academic Student Employees (ASE) Tuition Exemptions and Reductions U-Pass Fee Returned or Nonsufficient Payments Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA