Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Financing Options Student Loans Parent Loans Student Loans Student loans fall into two general categories. Subsidized Loans Subsidized loans (also referred to as need-based loans) are interest-deferred during in-school periods. This means interest is neither charged to the student nor added to the amount borrowed while the student is enrolled. Interest begins to accrue on subsidized loans after enrollment ceases. Not all students will qualify for subsidized loans—a financial aid counselor must determine your eligibility for these need-based loans. 2021–22 Academic Year Two subsidized loans are available to Princeton students Subsidized Loan Descriptions Loan Type Interest Rate Fees Annual Limit Repayment Period Direct Subsidized Stafford Loan 3.73% fixed – charged after enrollment ceases 1.057% Fr – $3,500 So – $4,500 Jr – $5,500 Sr – $5,500 Begins 6 months after borrower leaves school – maximum 10-year repayment term Princeton Subsidized Loan 4% fixed – charged during repayment None Determined by Financial Aid Office Begins 9 months after borrower leaves school – maximum 10-year repayment term Unsubsidized Loans Unsubsidized loans are used to replace the expected family contribution and finance a portion of the family’s payment to Princeton. There is no interest deferment on unsubsidized loans—interest must either be paid while the student is enrolled or be added to the loan principal. 2021–22 Academic Year Two unsubsidized loans are available to Princeton students Unubsidized Loan Descriptions Loan Type Interest Rate Fees Annual Limit* Repayment Period Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan 3.73% fixed – accrues during enrollment 1.057% Fr – $5,500 So – $6,500 Jr – $7,500 Sr – $7,500 Begins 6 months after borrower leaves school– maximum 10-year repayment term Alternative Loans Typically variable – tied to a market index (Prime, Libor, etc.) plus up to 10 points. Typical range is 4% to 15%. May range from 0 to 11% of the loan principal Cost of attendance minus student aid Typically begins 6 months after borrower leaves school – typical maximum 10-year repayment term *includes subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans Advice Regarding Alternative Loans Alternative loans are available from a variety of lenders outside the University. These loans are credit-based and should be viewed as a last resort after other borrowing options have been considered. Although terms and rates vary among private lenders, in many cases a Stafford loan may provide the student with more beneficial terms and conditions than an alternative loan. The financial aid office does not recommend specific lenders, as described in our code of conduct. Please contact the Financial Aid Office prior to applying for a student loan. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746