Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Billing & payments Student Accounts & Receivables at KU is responsible for billing, processing tuition and fee payments, collection services on past due accounts, third-party billings, and the disbursement of excess financial aid and refunds. Some departments, such as KU Transportation Services and Watkins Memorial Health Center, handle their own billing and payments; contact those departments with questions. Student Accounts & Receivables Access your eBill Notification of each new eBill will be sent to your registered KU email address unless otherwise designated. To obtain your eBill, log into Enroll & Pay, select the “Student Financials,” “Account Services,” and then “Print or View a Bill.” KU does not mail paper invoices. Bills issue on or near the 21st of each month and are due on the 15th of the following month. The eBills include details of current charges. Past eBills are available for the current year and the past four. All payments received since your last bill, including financial aid, will be reflected on your current statement. A prior balance reflects the ending balance from your last bill, not a balance due; refer to "Pay this Amount" to determine any due balance. Pay your eBill Financial aid can be used to pay standard charges, such as tuition, room and board, course fees, infrastructure fees, technology fees, other required campus fees, and bookstore charges. However, per federal regulation, KU cannot apply a student's financial aid toward penalty fees such as late payment fees, late enrollment fees, returned check fees, and finance charges. Payments not received by the appropriate due date will incur a non-refundable $100 fee. If a second bill is sent and is not paid by the due date, another non-refundable $100 late payment fee will be assessed. Thereafter, a 1.5% default fee will be assessed on all unpaid tuition and fees until the charges are paid in full. Enrollment, transcript delivery, and diploma delivery are frozen until full repayment occurs. Learn more about paying your bill on the Student Accounts & Receivables website. Grant delegate access You are ultimately responsible for any amounts owed to KU. Therefore, you must make persons who financially assist you aware of payment amounts and due dates, as well as relevant KU policy and procedures. KU can only provide this information to others authorized as delegates. You can create a delegate user through Enroll & Pay. Delegates can view your account balance, obtain notification of eBills by email, and process online payments on your behalf. Additional information Holds Select to follow link Refunds Select to follow link Taxes Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.