Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Resources Information Release Information Release Menu Home Resources Information Release How To Authorize Others Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar The University will not release your tuition or loan account information to others, including your parents or spouse, unless you complete an online authorization information release. This is to protect your privacy. The complete university policy on student education records and the location of such records may be found in the Washington Administrative Code under WAC 478-140. Additional information is available from the Office of the University Registrar here. Manuals containing the Code are available at Reference Stations on campus and at the Visitor's Information Center. Authorizing Others for Online Access to Your Tuition Account Information Students are able to authorize online access to their statement for up to five people by logging on to MyUW and completing the online Information Release Authorization. This authorization will also allow these individuals to obtain information about your tuition charges over the phone, by email or in-person. When you sign someone up for online access to your account, an email will be sent to them with a temporary password and a link to log into your account information. They will not log into the same MyUW site that students use. In order for the person to access your account information, they will need to know your seven-digit student number. This will NOT be included in the email for security purposes. Online Tuition Statement Login for parents or other authorized users. Authorizing Additional Access to Your Tuition Account Information From your tuition statement on MyUW, you may authorize up to five additional people for phone, email or in-person access to your tuition account information. If you have NOT authorized your parent, spouse or other individual to access your account, tuition information will NOT be given to them. Problems with Access The site that authorized individuals use to log in requires that the user's computer accepts cookies. If the computer's settings do not allow for cookies, they will not be allowed access to the UW's site. For help in configuring a computer to accept cookies, contact UW Information Technology. Internet Explorer Settings If you are using Internet Explorer, you can check your computer's settings using the following steps - starting from the menu bar at the top of your browser window: Tools Internet Options Privacy Sites in Address of Web site, type: washington.edu click Allow Ok Apply or Ok Home Resources Information Release How To Authorize Others Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar LOGIN ECSI Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA