Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Veterans Benefits Qualifying veterans may be eligible for educational benefits from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) through various VA programs. Dependents of veterans may be eligible to use VA educational benefits if the benefits are transferred to them. Students are not required to use their VA benefits at Princeton University. However, if you choose to certify eligibility, you can still apply for need-based aid to supplement your VA benefits. If you have questions regarding the certification process, please contact Princeton's Ceritfying Official in the Office of the Registrar. The two most common benefits programs used at Princeton are Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) and Education Benefits for Dependents and Survivors (Chapter 35). Chapter 33 (with and without Yellow Ribbon) The Post-9/11 GI Bill provides benefits for tution and required fees, housing, and books. Current rates can be found on the VA's website. If you are a dependent student with Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits being transferred from a parent, these benefits can be used to replace the Parent Contribution. If you, the student, are the veteran, your benefit may be used to replace your student responsibility. Princeton also participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program. Students receiving 100% Ch. 33 benefits who qualify for Yellow Ribbon will receive an additional $8,000 in total benefits paid to their bill. $4,000 from the VA and $4,000 from Princeton University. In addition to the educational benefits that are paid directly to the University (for tuition and required fees), you also receive a Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) – this is generally the same as the Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH). The amount of the benefits and allowance will depend on your percentage of eligibility. The monthly allowance is paid directly to you and you are responsible for paying your room and board costs. Since the MHA is less than Princeton’s cost for a standard room and unlimited meal plan, Princeton Grant may be used to supplement the VA resources you receive, depending on your family’s need. If benefits are certified after you have received an aid award, it may be necessary to adjust institutional funds. If your total VA benefits are less than your parent contribution, no change to your award is needed. If the total VA benefits are more than your parent contribution, Princeton Grant is reduced so that the total of the grant aid award, student contribution (if a dependent), and the VA benefits equals your cost of attendance. Institutional funds cannot be used to exceed the cost of attendance when combined with VA benefits. This ensures that you are using your benefits as exercised and institutional funds are used to supplement your remaining need. VA benefits do not affect eligibility for federal Title IV aid. Not all students receive 100% benefits with Yellow Ribbon. Eligibility is determined by the veteran’s length of service since 9/11/2001. If you have questions about how choosing to certify benefits would impact your award, we encourage you to get in touch with an aid counselor. Chapter 35 The Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance (DEA) program benefits are typically the Ch. 35 benefits used at Princeton. The benefits received with the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship are similar to the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits above and are, therefore, treated similarly to the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits. The DEA benefits are used to replace the parent and student contributions. Given the requirements for qualifying for DEA, this benefit is treated as an outside scholarship. This educational benefit is paid directly to you, the student, on a monthly basis. Current rates can be found on the VA's website. If benefits are certified after you have received an aid award, it may be necessary to adjust institutional funds. If the total VA benefits are less than your parent and student contributions, no change to your award is needed. If the total VA benefits are more than your parent and student contributions, the student contribution is reduced and Princeton Grant is reduced as needed so that the total of the grant aid award and the VA benefits equals your cost of attendance. Institutional funds cannot be used to exceed the cost of attendance when combined with VA benefits. This ensures that you are using your benefits as exercised and institutional funds are used to supplement your remaining need. VA benefits do not affect eligibility for federal Title IV aid. If you have questions about how choosing to certify benefits would impact your award, we encourage you to get in touch with an aid counselor. Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746