Skip to Content> Enrollment Management University of Texas at Austin Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Texas One Stop FAFSA CASH MyUT Search for: Search MENUMENU About Team Financial Aid Policy Employers On-Campus Employers Hiring and Managing Forms Training Work-Study Dates & Policies Off-Campus Employers Forms and Sample Forms Getting Organized Hiring and Managing Training Paying Work-Study Students Work-Study Dates & Policies AmericaReads/AmericaCounts HireUTexas Job Bank FAQ Post a Job News Protect Texas. Stay Informed. COVID-19 Updates › Making a UT Austin education possible UT Austin is committed to enrolling and graduating the most talented Texas students by offering competitive recruitment and scholarship packages that make the university an option for high-potential students, regardless of income. Our commitment to affordability means making it possible for students to take full advantage of all that the university has to offer, in four-years, to reduce student costs and debt. Financial Aid Questions Students, contact Texas One Stop for your questions about financial aid, scholarships, and loans. Texas One Stop is located on the ground floor of Main (the Tower). Please note that wearing a protective face mask and scheduling an appointment are required to visit Texas One Stop. If you’re not able to visit in person, you can still call Texas One Stop at (512) 232-6988 or email at onestop@utexas.edu for assistance. Scholarships and Financial Aid We are the official office overseeing federal grants and loans, federal and state Work-Study, state grants, Texas Advance Commitment, and outside scholarships. Our knowledgeable and accessible staff provide comprehensive information to students, their families, faculty and staff in a timely manner. Compliance and Collaboration We are the leading experts in scholarships and financial aid, ensuring compliance to federal and state regulations. We work with colleges and schools to determine aid, provide training, and support university goals. Student Support As student champions (for undergraduate, graduate, and professional students), we provide financial aid to help as many students and families as possible. We support students by assisting them in understanding their financial aid awards, one-on-one financial wellness sessions, financial literacy workshops, and understanding and applying for state and federal Work-Study opportunities. Students! Want information about Financial Aid? Visit the Texas One Stop for information about costs, scholarships, and financial aid. We’re here to answer your questions and help guide you through the financial aid process. Learn more › Financial Wellness Texas Financial Wellness is a campus-wide financial literacy program that offers money management events, training, and one-on-one financial coaching to all UT students, both financial aid and non-financial aid recipients. Visit Texas Financial Wellness > News, Tips & Reminders When to Expect A Financial Aid Offer for the 2022-23 Academic Year The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will begin to… Spring 2022 Financial Aid to be Released Beginning January 4 The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will begin disbursing spring 2022 financial aid, including grants and loans, on the following dates below. Funds will continue to disburse as awards are processed and made available to students. 2022-23 Continuing & Transfer Student Scholarship Application Now Available! Current UT students, transfer applicants, AND returning UT students who are planning to attend UT during the 2022–23 academic year are eligible and must complete the online application to be considered for this scholarship. Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Enrollment Management Code of Conduct Site Policies Emergency Information FAFSA School Code: 003658 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy UT Home UT Financial Aid Social Media UT Financial Aid on Twitter twitter UT Financial Aid on Facebook facebook © Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid, The University of Texas at Austin 2022