Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Other Grants and Scholarships Breadcrumb Home Types of Financial Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Other Grants & Scholarships Sidney E. Frank Scholars Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Other Grants and Scholarships Outside awards, including private outside scholarships and employee tuition benefits, are encouraged and can be used to reduce a student’s expected summer earnings, and/or student employment. Brown University does not offer aid based on academic achievement, athletic ability or any other form of merit. Eligibility is determined solely on financial need. Assistance from outside sources, however, may be based on a variety of criteria including merit and/or financial need. It is the student's responsibility to notify the Office of Financial Aid in writing of the receipt of any outside awards throughout the academic year. Please note that student athletes are also required to notify the Department of Athletics of any outside funding. This can be accomplished by completing the Outside Scholarship Reporting Form for incoming students, or the Brown Continuing Student Application for returning students. Federal and State Grants The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is required to determine a student's eligibility for: All federal grants, including the Pell Grant and Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG)* most state grants federal loans, including the Direct Loan and Perkins Loans To ensure Brown receives the information you provided on this federal application, please list Brown's Federal Code (003401) on your FAFSA. Outside Funding and Scholarships Private outside scholarships and employee tuition benefits are encouraged and can be used to reduce the student’s expected summer earnings, and/or student employment. If the amount of outside assistance a student receives exceeds the total amount of these two components, then University Scholarship will be reduced, dollar for dollar. Government-based entitlement awards (e.g. state scholarships and federal grants) will also result in a dollar-for-dollar reduction to University Scholarship. Army ROTC CareerOneStop Colleges, College Scholarships, and Financial Aid Page CollegeScholarships.org College Answer CollegeBoard Fastweb Scholarship Sources International Education Financial Aid (International Students Only) United Negro College Fund Veteran Benefits Tuition Benefits Tuition Benefits are treated as an outside resource and will reduce the financial aid award dollar for dollar. Tuition Benefits can be used to reduce the student's summer earnings expectation, loan, and work award. If your Tuition Benefits exceed the total of your loan and work award, your Brown University Scholarship will be reduced. United World College - Davis Scholarship Davis United World College (UWC) Scholars are exceptional young people who have graduated from a UWC school and then matriculated at selected U.S. colleges or universities. The UWC experience—which brings students from around the world to live and learn together in one of 17 locations on five continents—has challenged them academically and personally, expanded their horizons exponentially, and shown them how to build understanding from diversity. Once UWC graduates enroll in one of our partner U.S. colleges or universities, our program provides financial support for their undergraduate educations through institutional grants that support need-based scholarships for Davis UWC Scholars. Visit Davis United World College Scholars The Gates Scholarship The Gates Scholarship (TGS) is a highly selective, last-dollar scholarship for outstanding, minority, high school seniors from low-income households. Each year, the scholarship is awarded to 300 of these student leaders, with the intent of helping them realize their maximum potential. Visit the Gates Millennium Scholars Program Institutional Scholarships Brown University Scholarship The difference between what it costs to attend Brown for one year and what Brown expects a family to contribute is considered financial need. Financial need is first met with a standard amount of student effort (student employment) then with any state and/or federal entitlement grants for which you are eligible. Any remaining need is then met with Brown University Scholarship funds. Sidney E. Frank Scholars Provides financial assistance for the neediest undergraduate students at Brown University. Additional Information I received an outside scholarship that exceeds my student effort If you receive an outside scholarship that exceeds your student effort (summer earnings expectation and work), you may wish to consider one of the following two options. (1) You may consider asking the scholarship agency to defer to a later year the portion of the scholarship that is reducing your Brown University Scholarship. (2) You may consider using a portion of your outside scholarships as an allowance towards funding a one-time purchase of a computer. Outside Scholarship funds may be used to be applied towards reasonable expenses associated with the purchase of a computer. The computer and related accessories must be considered educationally relevant for the academic period the allowance would be applied towards and must be reasonable in cost in order to be covered. For example, a tablet, webcam, digital camera, gaming software, etc. would not be covered. A printer, carrying case and service protection plan are examples of allowable expenses. Any questions regarding what would be considered a reasonable expense for a computer and/or add-ons should be directed to a Financial Aid Counselor prior to purchase. To be considered, any request must be received by the office at least two weeks prior to the end of the academic term for which this adjustment is being requested. Information on computer purchases I will receive half of my scholarship in the fall and half in the spring If the scholarship comes in two separate checks - one for fall, one for spring - the student will not have access to the second half of the scholarship funding until the funds are actually sent to Brown. No advances will be given on scholarship funding. Therefore, students who want to purchase a computer first semester may need to charge the computer or wait until they receive the additional funds second semester before purchasing the computer. (This may also happen to a student whose scholarship arrives late in the fall semester or is applied entirely in the spring semester.) The result may be that your family pays more of its contribution in the fall semester than in the spring. Contact the outside scholarship agency to find out when the funds will be sent to Brown. I received an endowed scholarship Receiving an endowed scholarship does not affect your financial aid award. Approximately 25% of University Scholarships are funded by gifts to the University from benefactors. Some benefactors require that the gift be awarded to a student who fulfills specific criteria. If you receive a letter indicating that you have been matched to an endowed scholarship, it simply means your academic and/or personal profile matches the requirements of a benefactor who endowed a University Scholarship. Each year, all University Scholarship recipients are asked to fill out a survey that is used to complete the scholarship matching process and share student stories with donors. Survey responses also fit together to form a personal, narrative ‘thank you’ letter to those who support Brown's financial aid. You can log into the scholarship matching survey with your Brown username and password. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Other Grants and Scholarships Open details for Other Grants and Scholarships Bookmark this Page