https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Understand Your Financial Aid Notification | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Understand Your Financial Aid Notification Click on a section of the sample letter below to view a detailed explanation of how to read your financial aid notification. Refer back to this example when reviewing your actual financial aid notification via OSCAR. 1. Cost of Attendance (COA) The components of each budget include estimates for tuition, fees, room, board, books and supplies, and personal expenses. The only components that are "actual" will be tuition and fees once they are set by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia. All other costs in the student budget reflect conservative "averages." These are not the exact amounts owed to the Institute. The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA) establishes an "average" budget for students who live on and off campus, as well as those living with their parents. Visit Cost of Attendance for information. 2. Expected Family Contribution (EFC) from FAFSA Georgia Tech utilizes a need analysis formula established by the U.S. Department of Education to determine a family's ability to contribute to the cost of attendance. This amount is referred to as the "Expected Family Contribution" (EFC), and it is calculated for families completing the FAFSA. This is not the amount that the family owes Georgia Tech. The "federal methodology" evaluates parent and student income, some net assets (home value is not considered), number of family members, number of family members in college, and other relevant factors that may affect a family's ability to contribute toward educational expenses. 3. Need-Based Aid Eligibility for need-based aid is determined by subtracting the EFC from the Cost of Attendance. Thus, many families who demonstrate need at a higher-cost, private institution may not be eligible for need-based aid at a lower-cost, public institution such as Georgia Tech. Demonstrating need does not ensure receipt of grants or scholarships as other eligibility criteria also apply and funding is limited. 4. Outside Resources Students who receive any assistance not already included in the financial aid award letter must report the amount and type of assistance to the OSFA. This is required by Federal law and Institute policy. This assistance may be in the form of additional financial awards such as scholarships, private loans, etc., or in the form of reduced financial obligations to the Institute, including nonresident fee waivers, reduced housing costs, Veteran's Benefits, ROTC, etc. The Institute encourages students to compete for externally sponsored scholarships. Students who receive additional financial assistance may have the original Georgia Tech awards reduced and/or canceled. Every attempt will be made to cancel/reduce self-help awards (employment and loans) before any adjustment is made to Georgia Tech scholarships. 5. Awards Contingent on availability of funds, Georgia Tech will attempt to meet a portion of each on-time applicants' demonstrated need by offering a combination of grant, scholarship, loan, and student employment funds from Federal, State, institutional, and private sources. For incoming first-year students for the upcoming academic year, the Federal EFC is viewed in combination with information from the CSS PROFILE for purposes of determining eligibility for institutional funds (scholarships, grants, loans) with need as a criterion. 6. Fund-Specific Messages Awards made by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid may require additional steps in order for the funds to be approved and/or disbursed. Where provided, please follow the steps indicated in this section of the award letter. 7. Award Revisions Send an email to revisions@finaid.gatech.edu in order to decline all or a portion of any award. Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology