https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Federal Work Study Student Information | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Federal Work Study Student Information To be considered for a Federal Work Study (FWS) award, you must complete both of the following applications each year by the posted deadlines: Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT APP) Be sure to indicate on your GT APP that you want to be considered for loans. If you have difficulty logging onto the GT application, click here. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) We strongly encourage you to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool when completing the FAFSA. Georgia Tech's Title IV school code is 0001569. The priority filing deadline for fall is January 31, and the final deadline for fall and spring is July 31. For other questions regarding FWS, please contact our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu. Position Types and Pay Rates Positions range from clerical work to lab assistants to reading, math, and science tutors for elementary school-aged children. Review this list of the types of positions available, a brief description of duties, and pay ranges. Tutoring Opportunities Tutoring opportunities pay $10-12 per hour. You will assist with mentoring and assisting pre-K - 12 students in local area schools with subjects such as reading, math, and the sciences. Off-campus transportation is desired. Clerical Opportunities Clerical positions pay $8-$11 per hour. Previous work experience is needed to be considered for this level of position. Student Assistant You will assist in an office environment. Duties may include, but are not limited to: Filing Answering phones Receiving visitors and packages Running Georgia Tech-related errands Making copies/faxes Research Opportunities Research positions pay $8.50-$12 per hour. Previous work experience is needed to be considered for this level of position. Lab Assistant You will assist in a laboratory environment. Duties may include, but are not limited to: Cleaning lab equipment Cleaning the lab itself Taking data recordings Make and report findings Conduct lab inspections Undergraduate Research Assistant You will assist a researcher with their individual project(s). Undergraduate Research Assistants may not be paid for work they are being graded on. Technical Opportunities Technical positions pay $8.50-$12 per hour. Previous work experience is needed to be considered for this level of position. Technical Assistant You will work mainly with computers and other electronic equipment in a technical capacity. Finding a FWS Position If you have been awarded FWS and you need to find a position, an email will be sent to you detailing the job placement process. The positions posted will detail the hiring department, position type, pay range, job description, and supervisor's email address. Once you find a position that you are interested in applying for, you will need to email the supervisor to express your interest. In your email, you should include the following: Any experience you may have for the position. If possible, attach a resume. Days and/or hours that you are available to work. Attach a copy of your award notice showing your FWS award. The supervisor will contact you to let know if the position is still open and/or to set up an interview. Please keep in mind that these positions are very competitive, so please check the listings periodically as they may change. If your need assistance finding a job to match your hours and/or interest, please contact our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu. View Open Positions Important Dates Semester First Day - Last Day You Can Work Spring 2022 January 10 - May 7, 2022 Summer 2022 May 16 - August 6, 2022 Fall 2022 August 22 - December 15, 2022 Video not supported. Frequently Asked Questions Who can qualify to work? FWS funds are awarded based on financial need, and are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, until all funds are exhausted. FWS students are expected to adhere to a work schedule agreed upon by both the student and the supervisor. Students are not permitted to work during hours when they are scheduled to be in class, even when a class is canceled or dismissed early. How many credit hours do I have to be registered for in order to work? In order to participate in FWS, you must be enrolled in at least six (6) active credit hours. During terms of non-enrollment, you must have written permission from the FWS team in order to work. I received a FWS award and I DO NOT want it. What should I do? Email our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu to request a cancellation of your award. In the email, please include your GTID number and an explanation of why you want to cancel the award. Are all jobs only on campus? No, CEISMC and JumpStart are community service jobs that may be located off campus. How many positions can I work on campus? While we prefer that you work only ONE job, you are allowed employment in more than one job during the academic year. However, you must receive approval prior to being hired concurrently. The second job must hire you as a bi-weekly student worker (100% departmental funding). Can I work two FWS jobs? No, you cannot work two FWS jobs. How many hours a week can I work? During an enrolled semester, you can work a maximum of 20 hours per week. You cannot exceed your award amount for the semester. Please work with your supervisor to create a schedule that will allow you to work throughout the semester without exceeding your allotted award amount. How will I be paid? You will be paid bi-weekly. What if I have a late time sheet? It is your responsibility, as well as the responsibility of your supervisor, to submit time documents in a timely manner. If your FWS time documents are submitted late, the OSFA will request a written explanation for the occurrence. Repeated occurrences may jeopardize your eligibility and the department's eligibility to participate in the FWS program. Can I receive a pay raise? Yes. Pay raises are based on the length of employment in your current position and the responsibilities assigned to this position. Pay raises usually range from 25 cents to 50 cents after the first year of employment. All pay raises must be cleared with the FWS Coordinator before taking effect. Can I use FWS money to pay for tuition? Yes. However, you must first earn the money you are awarded. If you save your money, you can use it to pay any expense related to your education. What is the PSF requirement? The Personal Services Form (PSF) is the hiring form also know as the Direct Hire Form (DHF) that must be completed by the hiring department, OSFA, and Office of Human Resources (OHR). Once you have been hired, the hiring department will complete this form. Will the PSF requirement influence the disbursement of my financial aid? No. Your other financial aid awards will disburse without the PSF requirement being satisfied. Where do I get the PSF form? Once you have accepted a FWS position offer, the hiring department will initiate an electronic Direct Hire form which will be routed to the FWS team. Do I need to apply every year to receive FWS? Yes. You must complete your financial aid application each year by the priority deadline. Financial aid applications are available in October for the next academic year. Should I show FWS earnings on the FAFSA for the following year? Yes. Include FWS earnings in your Adjusted Gross Income. In the Student section, be sure to also answer the question that asks about taxable earnings from need-based employment programs. FWS is considered as an income exclusion and will not be counted in determining your financial aid awards. FWS was not listed on my award notice and I DO want it. What should I do? Email our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu to request that you be considered for the FWS program. In the email, please include your name and GTID. Why wasn't I awarded FWS? There could be a combination of reasons as to why you were not awarded FWS. While funds last, FWS is awarded where possible to eligible students who complete both the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and the Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT APP) each year by the posted deadlines. Can I be put on a waitlist? Yes. If funds are not available at the time, you may request to be put on the waitlist for a FWS award. Email our FWS team at fws@finaid.gatech.edu to submit your request. In your email, please include your name and GTID. Are there non-FWS positions available at Georgia Tech? Yes, please view the student employee resource webpage for non-FWS jobs that are available on and off campus. Access Student Employee Resources Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology