Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Financial and Administrative Services Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Financial and Administrative Services Search Search GTranslate English EnglishArabicFrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseSpanishTurkishVietnamese Search Search About Expand Darrell Bazzell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leadership & Staff Directory Committees and Councils Affiliated Units FAS Organizational Chart Messages From the Senior VP & CFO Diversity Commitment Expand EDI Resources Diversity Commitment News EDI Events Education and Development Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) Committee Glossary of Terms Inclusivity Spotlights Strategic Plan Expand Our Shared Values Guidebooks and Resources History of the FAS Strategic Plan Coronavirus Information Expand UT FAS Vaccine Information Fall 2021 Planning Guidance Expand Resources and Services Expand Administrative Applications Affiliated Units FAS Policies & Guidance Handbook of Business Procedure Services Training Resources GTranslate English EnglishArabicFrenchGermanItalianPersianPortugueseSpanishTurkishVietnamese Home FAS Coronavirus Information and Operational Status FAS Coronavirus Information and Operational Status Last updated on May 9, 2022. Building Access Most buildings are following lock/unlock schedules. If you need access to a building outside of regular hours, use your UT ID card to enter the celebrated entrance. A celebrated entrance is typically a main entrance, but employees should look for the ID card swipe pad and words "Celebrated Entrance" printed on the doors to locate the building’s celebrated entrance. Some buildings may have more secure access measures in place. Directional signage is posted at prominent access points on those buildings. Do not allow anyone to tailgate into a building behind you. Make sure the door closes behind you, and do not allow tailgating entry into a building for your own and other’s safety. If someone attempts to tailgate behind you into a building, inform them the building is closed, and they must use their UT ID card to enter. If they do enter improperly, immediately call 911 and UTPD will respond to investigate. Accounting and Financial Management Operational Status: Fully operational. AT&T Hotel and Conference Center Operational Status: The AT&T Hotel and Conference Center is open and taking guest reservations and event requests. Please note: face coverings are required at our hotel in all public spaces. We encourage you to use our website, meetattexas.com to book your stay or submit an event inquiry. Budget Office Operational Status: The Budget Office is fully operational. CSUs should contact their budget contacts or email bd.help@austin.utexas.edu for assistance on budget update document development or any other issue. Bursar Operational Status: The Budget Office is fully operational. The office will process deposits Monday - Friday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Deposits that only have credit card transactions can be approved remotely. Payments for What I Owe can also be made in person during these times. For questions oa.bursar@austin.utexas.edu Business Contracts Operational Status: All services are fully operational, fully remote. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://businesscontracts.utexas.edu/coronavirus Business and Financial Services Operational Status: Fully Operational, Fully Remote; except Central/Stores Warehouse, staffed 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. Campus Safety Operational Status - Fully Operational. Child Development Center Operational Status: Fully operational Commons Conference Center and Commons Café Operational Status: Fully operational Communications Operational Status: Fully operational. For Coronavirus web guidance, please contact FAS Communications Web at fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu. For all other communications questions, please email fascomm@austin.utexas.edu. Docusign Operational Status: Fully operational Document Solutions and UT Mail Services Operational Status: Document Solutions will continue to provide essential services to the university. USPS Mail and Campus Delivery Services (CDS) packages will be delivered only to departments who have requested these services. Please expect delivery delays. If your campus-bound package has been rerouted, please call CDS to coordinate pickup. 512-471-3670. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://documentsolutions.utexas.edu/coronavirus eBits Operational Status: Fully Operational, fully remote. Email askUS@austin.utexas.edu (8 a.m. - 5 p.m. M-F) or call 512-471-8802 (9 a.m. - 4 p.m. M-F) for HR/Payroll or Financial systems support. Emergency Management Operational Status: Currently running a virtual Emergency Operations Center (EOC), providing continuity of emergency operations support for the University and running the University’s Emergency Notification systems to keep the UT community informed of any changes on campus. Environmental Health and Safety Operational Status: Key personnel on-campus responding to sanitize areas with any possible contamination of COVID-19, continuing waste management and pick-up, hazardous materials incidents, odors, fume hoods, and any other primary incident calls. All other services are fully functional remotely. Facilities Services Operational Status: Facilities Services is supporting the university’s current operational requirements. We continue to follow the most updated campus guidance for health and wellness as directed by the university. For more information on Campus Operations, visit the Protect Texas Together website. For service requests and inquiries, contact the Facilities Service Center at 512-471-2020 or facilities@austin.utexas.edu. You can also submit requests online using WORQS. FAS Human Resources Support Services* Operational Status: Fully operational. For service, please email hrss@austin.utexas.edu or call 512-471-5466 and leave a message including your name, EID, and your preferred email address. *FAS HRSS is for employees of Financial and Administrative Services only. Find other HR Representatives here. Fire Prevention Services Operational Status: Fully operational. Employee Assistance Program Operational Status: Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is currently open and providing services remotely through video and phone counseling. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://eap.utexas.edu/coronavirus HealthPoint Operational Status: HealthPoint Wellness remains fully operational remotely, except for our Points of Health Mini Gym which is currently closed. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://healthpoint.utexas.edu/coronavirus Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) and Small Business (SB) Office Operational Status: Fully operational. Human Resources Operational Status: Fully operational. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://hr.utexas.edu/coronavirus ID Center Operational Status: Fully operational. Monday-Friday 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Imaging Services Operational Status: Fully operational. ITS Service Desk Operational Status: Fully operational. Monday-Friday 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Parking and Transportation Services Operational Status: Offices for staffed garages are open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. (with one-hour lunch closure) for those who need to do in-person transactions. The Conference Center and Health Center Garage offices are open 24 hours. The PTS Main Office lobby is closed, as it is too small to allow for social distancing. For assistance, please go to the Trinity Garage cashier office located on Level 1 at the exit gate. University Fleet Automotive Shops are open Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Parking: Parking on campus requires either an active permit or a fee at a meter or garage. Campus Shuttles: See the Shuttle Service Level Calendar for complete information. If you need to get to campus during the breaks, many Capital Metro routes follow existing UT Shuttle routes and provide access to main campus and the Pickle Research Center (PRC) campus. Capital Metro: Capital Metro service is operating. Students, faculty, and staff ride free with their UT ID. UT Night Rides: UT Night Rides runs 7 days a week from midnight to 4 a.m. SureWalk: Sure Walk spring hours of operation will be 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://parking.utexas.edu/coronavirus Procurement aPayment Services Operational Status: Fully operational. Payroll Services Operational Status: Fully operational. Police Operational Status: Fully operational. ProCard Operational Status: Fully operational. Procurement Card Services Coronavirus Information: https://procard.financials.utexas.edu/coronavirus Purchasing Office Operational Status: Please note that as the University continues to navigate COVID-19 and we continue a practice of increased online and remote operations in support of the organization. Essential items that are required, should be shipped to Campus Distribution Services (CDS). New Expenditure Review Processes are in place. Purchasing Office Coronavirus Information: https://purchasing.utexas.edu/coronavirus Student Accounts Receivable Operational Status: Fully operational. Technology Resources Operational Status: Fully operational. Travel Management Services Operational Status: TMS staff are working remotely during the COVID-19 restrictions. Domestic Travel: Domestic travel for business or study no longer requires exceptions by deans or vice presidents. For international travel, the prohibition on university-sanctioned travel for business or study has been extended through December 31, 2021. Coronavirus Information and Resources: https://travel.utexas.edu/coronavirus. University Data Center Operational Status: Fully operational. Utilities and Energy Management Operational Status: Fully operational. Coronavirus Information UT FAS Vaccine Information Last updated on May 20, 2022, 2:52 pm Financial and Administrative Services Office of the Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Main 102 110 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G4900 Austin, Texas 78712-1705 512-471-1422 Website Problems? Contact FAS Communications fascommweb@austin.utexas.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo UT System UT Mission & Values UT System Policy Library UT System Regents' Rules and Regulations State of Texas UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022