Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Financial Aid Brown’s commitment to affordability has never been stronger. Undergraduate Financial Aid Brown’s commitment to affordability has never been stronger. Brown meets 100% of each student's demonstrated financial need. And we do this with no loans — only scholarship grants that do not have to be repaid — included in University financial aid packages. The Brown Promise, along with our newest initiatives, have been established to make Brown increasingly affordable to students and families from all backgrounds. We believe that making an impact and addressing critical issues in the world demands an undergraduate experience that reflects a diversity of views, backgrounds and life experiences. We actively seek students from all income groups and have need-blind admissions, which means that an applicant’s ability or inability to pay the cost of tuition does not determine our admission decision. 0% Parent responsibility for most families with less than $60,000 in annual income 44% of the Class of 2025 received need-based financial aid $0 of demonstrated financial need met with loans 100% We meet every student’s demonstrated financial need $22,350 Average family responsibility for the Class of 2025 Information for... Prospective Students Learn about receiving aid with no loans, financial aid deadlines, and how to estimate cost. Admitted Students Learn about financial aid basics, how to understand your award, and the types of aid included in financial aid offers. Current Students Learn about applying for aid, campus employment and other special circumstances. Estimators & Calculators MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator Answer six basic financial questions with Brown’s MyinTuition and receive an early estimate of what your family will pay for one year at Brown. No tax forms are needed. Brown’s Net Price Calculator This calculator requires some detailed financial information and provides a more personalized estimate of cost. This calculator is for U.S. Citizens, permanent residents, DACA students and undocumented students. More Ways to Estimate Cost & Aid Plan ahead with information about the cost of attendance and special circumstances. Additional Resources Banner Self-Service Loan Repayment Calculator Student Financial Services Student Employment Code of Conduct Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Open details for Undergraduate Financial Aid Bookmark this Page