Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Financial Aid Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Office Updates Costs Important Dates Forms Scholarships Contact Financial Aid Emergency Funding Request Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Office Updates Costs Important Dates Forms Scholarships Contact Emergency Funding Request Request Info Visit Apply for Admission The American Rescue Plan funding request is now closed. Currently, these funds will be exhausted this term and not available in future terms. The Office of Financial Aid is open for in-person service from 1:00pm to 4:00pm or by phone 541-737-2241 from 10:00am to 4:00pm, Monday to Friday. You can also email us anytime at financial.aid@oregonstate.edu. Financial Aid Self-Service Portal Financial Aid at Oregon State University Support to achieve your goals You've got big dreams for your future, and Oregon State University can help put that future within your reach. The Office of Financial Aid welcomes the opportunity to help you make your dreams for a quality education come true. THE OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID STANDS WITH OUR BLACK STUDENTS, STUDENTS OF COLOR, AND COMMUNITIES OF COLOR. "As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive." -President Emeritus Ed Ray Net Price Calculator Scholarships Accept Your Award Financial Aid Forms How we're helping during the COVID-19 pandemic The Federal CARES Act, Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA), and American Rescue Plan (ARP) provided emergency aid to help students to cover additional expenses incurred from campus disruptions due to COVID-19. These may include food, housing, course materials, technology, health care and child care. OSU has now paid out all of the funding it received from the CARES Act and CRRSAA for student support. Visit our CARES, CRRSAA and ARP reporting page for details. We're here to help you navigate the cost of your education We recognize that college is a big investment for you and your family. Take advantage of our resources to help navigate the cost of your education. We have detailed cost estimates, a net price calculator, budget worksheets, housing and dining options, and debt management solutions. If you have emergency needs please contact our office. How to apply for financial aid at OSU Learn the fundamentals of the financial aid application process. We offer detailed options for every student type, explanations of various forms of aid, and information for parents. Understanding and accepting your aid package Financial aid is a process. We want you to understand your financial aid offer letter, know how to accept your financial aid offer, and what happens after your FAFSA has been processed. Learn how to maintain your financial aid There are many factors that impact your eligibility for aid when you are a student. Knowing how different decisions will impact your aid will help you maintain eligibility. Learn how payments work, how to renew your aid, what happens when courses are dropped and how to maintain satisfactory academic progress. Explore additional resources When scholarships, grants, and loans aren't enough, we still have other opportunities to consider. How To Videos Financial Literacy Work-Study Financial Aid for Undocumented and DACA Students Contact Info Financial Aid Oregon State University 218 Kerr Administration Corvallis, OR 97331 Office Hours: Available for in-person service Monday-Friday, 1:00pm to 4:00pm. Telephone: 541-737-2241 Fax: 541-737-4494 Email Financial Aid Email Scholarships Email Degree Partnership Program Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer COVID-19 impact on Financial Aid Office Information Sources of Emergency Aid CostS Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Application & Processing Undergraduate Aid Basics Post-Bacc Aid Basics Graduate Aid Basics Ecampus Student FAQ's Information for Parents Información Para Los Padres Summer Aid Verification FAQs Private Loans Understand & Accept Award Offer Basics Accept your Award Terms & Conditions Aid Types Aid Limits for Undergraduates Special Conditions Appeal for Changes in Your Financial Situation Request Changes Satisfactory Academic Progress Census Date Terminology FAQ's General Info for 2021-2022 Maintain EligIbility Receiving Aid Request Changes Census Date Dropping Courses Failed or Incomplete Courses Withdrawal Course Participation Repeating Coursework Satisfactory Academic Progress Renewing your Aid What Happens If I am Less Than Fulltime? Explore Additional Resources Avoiding Scams Financial Literacy Loan Repayment How To Videos OSU Resources Publications Study Abroad Work Study Degree Partnership Financial Aid for Undocumented and DACA Students Ayuda financiera para los estudiantes indocumentados y estudiantes DACA SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) Additional Information Constitution Day Consumer Information Veteran's Benefits Childcare College Scorecard College Navigator Financial Aid Outreach Request Form Gainful Employment Gainful Employment Certificate Programs