Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of Financial Aid Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Federal Emergency Relief HEERF (CARES Act) Information HEERF II (CRRSAA) Information HEERF III (ARP) Information FSU Institutional CARES Funding Apply for Aid Prospective Noles New Noles Transfer Students Current Noles Complete Your FAFSA Renew Your FAFSA Types of Aid Grants Federal Work Study Loans Scholarships Summer Summer Financial Aid Summer - Terms and Conditions Transient Summer Budget Worksheet (PDF) Cost Financial Literacy Understanding the Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Fall/Spring Budget Worksheet (PDF) Summer Budget Worksheet (PDF) Graduate Budget Worksheet (PDF) Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 Forms Graduate/Law/Medical Cost Types of Aid GRE Waiver Information Veterans Transient Students Apply Here Terms and Conditions Resources Office of Financial Aid Checklist Financial Aid Processes myFSU Guides Consumer Information Calendar FAQ Definitions Terms and Conditions Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of Financial Aid Toggle navigation Federal Emergency Relief HEERF (CARES Act) Information HEERF II (CRRSAA) Information HEERF III (ARP) Information FSU Institutional CARES Funding Apply for Aid Prospective Noles New Noles Transfer Students Current Noles Complete Your FAFSA Renew Your FAFSA Types of Aid Grants Federal Work Study Loans Scholarships Summer Summer Financial Aid Summer - Terms and Conditions Transient Summer Budget Worksheet (PDF) Cost Financial Literacy Understanding the Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Fall/Spring Budget Worksheet (PDF) Summer Budget Worksheet (PDF) Graduate Budget Worksheet (PDF) Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 Forms Graduate/Law/Medical Cost Types of Aid GRE Waiver Information Veterans Transient Students Apply Here Terms and Conditions Resources Office of Financial Aid Checklist Financial Aid Processes myFSU Guides Consumer Information Calendar FAQ Definitions Terms and Conditions Contact Home Types of Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Scholarships Admissions Scholarships FSU Foundation State Scholarships Private Scholarships Athletic Scholarships Scholarships Scholarship Scams! Beware of any scholarship search service that charges a fee. The information that you are paying for could be obtained through another source at no cost. Visit the Federal Student Aid site on How to Avoid Student Aid Scams for guidance on how to identify and avoid scholarship scams. Scholarships are a type of aid that does not need to be paid back and can be based on merit, extracurricular activities, or demographics. Some scholarships require that you complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Filling out the FAFSA should always be your first step in applying for financial aid of any type. The key to earning a scholarship is to make the effort to identify scholarships that you may qualify for, respond fully and accurately to any application requirements, and don't give up! FS4U FSU offers an online scholarship platform to help you in your scholarship search: FS4U - Finding Scholarships For You. FS4U identifies any FSU Foundation scholarships that you may apply for. Please review it carefully, and check back frequently as new opportunities may be added at any time. Private Scholarships Private scholarships must be reported as outside aid. They are a financial resource that will be used in determining your need for other aid. Your financial aid award may be adjusted based on receipt of scholarships at any time during the academic year. For more information about private scholarships, including a comprehensive list of scholarships that are available, visit FSU Student Business Services Private Scholarships. Legacy Sort 9 Legacy Priority 3 title-inside title-centered 2 © Office of Financial Aid Suite 4400A University Center Tallahassee, FL 32306-2430 | (850) 644-0539 Report Website Issues FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media