Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Apply for aid Applying for aid involves several steps, but there’s no need to be intimidated. Follow the steps found in this section, and whenever a question stops you in your tracks, turn to your financial aid counselor. Get in touch The first step? Apply to KU Prospective Jayhawks must meet KU’s current scholarship application deadline of March 1 to be considered for scholarships offered by the university. Apply for admission Apply for admission Steps to obtaining aid File the FAFSA To be eligible for many types of financial aid, all students — first-time and returning, freshman and transfer — must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Accept aid When the good news of awarded funds arrives, your next step is to say yes (or no). Families applying for loans have a few additional steps. Receive aid You’ll work with Student Accounts & Receivables and use the Enroll & Pay website to manage disbursed and excess funds. Other aid may involve extra steps. Maintain aid Current students must meet minimum academic and enrollment requirements to keep their aid year to year. Dropping classes or withdrawing from KU affects your aid. Transfer aid If you are transferring to KU from another institution, you’ll want to update your FAFSA and communicate with your previous school and outside entities providing you with aid. Specific student situations Students will be packaged with federal financial aid for the summer term after they enroll in summer classes. As it does for fall and spring aid, summer aid requires a filed FAFSA, a minimum enrollment, and fulfillment of satisfactory academic progress (SAP). Amounts depend on many factors, including enrollment status and the total aid used in the preceding academic year. A financial aid counselor can answer questions about requests and eligibility. Nondegree-seeking students typically do not receive federal financial aid. Review our non-degree exceptions and submit a non-degree financial aid request form if you feel you qualify. Students seeking a second bachelor's degree may be eligible for financial aid. However, some aid programs are available only to students seeking their first bachelor's degree. Additionally, review our Satisfactory Academic Progress policy regarding limits on hours for second degrees. Students may not receive financial aid from more than one institution at a time. Those interested in receiving aid from KU for classes they plan to take at another institution should schedule an appointment with their financial aid counselor. KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.