Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Student Employment in Financial Aid Packages Breadcrumb Home Types of Financial Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Student Employment in Financial Aid Packages Brown expects that all financial aid recipients will contribute to their out-of-pocket or indirect educational costs by working during the academic year. Many undergraduate students have an academic year work component as part of their financial aid package, referred to as Federal Work-Study or Campus Employment. For Work-Study or Campus Employment, earnings of approximately $2,950 are expected, representing 10-12 hours/week during the academic year. The Basics A Work-Study or Campus Employment award is a work opportunity, not an obligation. Students are not assigned to jobs. Instead, students apply for jobs based on their interests, skills and schedule. Visit the Student Employment section of the University Human Resources website for full details. Students receive paychecks for work hours. Funds are not credited to student bills. The amount of the award is an estimate and is based on a student working 8-10 hours per week to earn funds to cover non-billed educational and miscellaneous expenses. Students may earn more or less than the award amount. And, there is no penalty if a student opts not to work. A Work-Study or Campus Employment award is not required to work on campus. Both aided and non-aided undergraduate students are eligible to work. Student Employment Website Federal Work-Study at Brown Brown University awards a work component to eligible students as part of their financial aid package. Students are not required to work or to earn the full amount of their work award. Instead, the work award provides a student the opportunity to work and earn funds that they can use towards their daily expenses. It is not expected that these earned funds will be paid back to Brown to cover tuition, fees or other billed educational fees. Students who are able to cover their personal and book expenses by other means, and therefore do not earn any or all of their employment opportunity, are not penalized in any way. Federal Work-Study or Campus Employment is a work opportunity—not a requirement. The Federal Work-Study or Campus Employment portion of the award will not appear as a credit on the billing statement from the University. These funds are paid directly to working students. While eligible students receive an award up to $2,950, the actual amount of money each student will earn depends on the number of hours worked each week and the wage rate paid by the employer. Students who work receive a biweekly paycheck from the Brown Payroll Office. Student Employment and University Human Resources Brown University employs students in various administrative and academic departments. University Human Resources oversees and manages student employment. Please visit the University Human Resources website for information on student work rules and guidelines, as well as information on applying for a job and getting paid. Minimum Student Rate The current minimum hourly wage rate paid to students is $12.25/hour (as of 01/01/2022). Since pay rates vary depending on the type of job and skills required, many students earn hourly rates that are higher than the minimum. Having a job on campus should not adversely affect academic or personal activities. The recommendation is that students work no more than 8 to 12 hours a week. Information About the Federal Work-Study Program The Federal Work-Study Program was established by the Higher Education Act of 1965. The intent is to encourage and promote the employment of students in order to help them meet their educational costs. Eligibility for Federal Work-Study (FWS) is determined from the information students provide on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Brown University receives an annual allocation of FWS funds from the U.S. Department of Education. These funds are used to help subsidize the wages of students with a Federal Work-Study award. Therefore, the wages earned by students who have a Federal Work-Study award are paid by a combination of federal funds and University funds. Students with Campus Employment in their financial aid award are paid entirely with University funds. Learn more about expected student earnings Questions or concerns? If you have any questions or concerns specific to your Federal Work-Study or Campus Employment award, or other components of your financial aid award, please email us at Financial_Aid@brown.edu or call 401-863-2721. All other Student Employment inquiries may be directed to University Human Resources at Student_Employment@Brown.edu or 401-863-9922. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Employment in Financial Aid Packages Open details for Student Employment in Financial Aid Packages Bookmark this Page