https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Grants | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Grants Grants are a form of financial aid that do not need to be paid back. Grants can come from federal and state governments, as well as from Georgia Tech. Only undergraduates who have not previously received a bachelor's degree are eligible. Grants are awarded to those who exhibit exceptional financial need and apply for aid by the priority deadline. Several types of grants are described below. Federal Pell Grant Pell Grants are awarded to eligible undergraduate students who do not have a bachelor's degree. Award amounts are based on the assumption of 12 eligible hours per semester. Some Federal Pell Grant recipients are eligible for partial awards for less than half-time enrollment. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG) SEOG is awarded to Pell-eligible undergraduate students who do not have a bachelor's degree and who demonstrate exceptional financial need. Award amounts vary and are determined by the availability of funds. State of Georgia Grants Information on other grants and scholarships available from the State of Georgia is located at GAfutures.org. Other State Grants Information on other U.S. states and territories, besides Georgia, and their grants and scholarships is available from the U.S. Department of Education. Georgia Tech Grant Annual grants are awarded to students who demonstrate financial need. The funds are donated by Georgia Tech alumni, industry friends, and others. Entering first-years are limited to receiving institutional grants for the first eight terms of full-time enrollment. Students are limited to receiving grants for two semesters of enrollment during an academic year (Fall, Spring, or Summer). A transfer student's eligibility will be determined on an individual basis depending upon hours transferred. Students are required to maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA as well as a semester GPA of 2.0. These requirements for grant retention are in addition to the renewal terms listed here. College of Sciences Dean's Grant College of Sciences (COS) Dean's Grants are restricted to qualified students pursuing a major within the College of Sciences. Recipients must meet and maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress and maintain Good Academic Standing as determined by the the Registrar's Office. Award amounts vary depending on the kinds and amounts of other scholarships and grants received by the student. Full time enrollment is required and the award may be renewed for up to eight semesters. Students awarded the grant will typically be expected to maintain a cumulative as well as a semester GPA of 3.0. Ivan Allen College Dean's Grant Ivan Allen College (IAC) Dean's Grants are restricted to qualified students pursuing a major within the Ivan Allen College. Recipients must meet and maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress and maintain Good Academic Standing as determined by the Office of The Registrar. Award amounts vary depending on the kinds and amounts of other scholarships and grants received by the student. Full time enrollment is required and the award may be renewed for up to eight semesters. Students awarded the grant will typically be expected to maintain a cumulative as well as a semester GPA of 3.0. Apply for Grants To be considered for institutional or federal grants, you must complete the FAFSA and the Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) each year. Application Steps Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology