Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Menu Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Topics Covered Schedule Changes Class Drops Withdrawals Forfeitures Refunds Withdrawals or Refunds for Financial Aid Recipients Students Who Withdraw from AEP Classes Schedule Changes The following chart lists tuition and fees and what is charged according to the date of the drop in credits, or complete withdrawal. **Please be aware the calendar day starts on the first day of the quarter and includes weekends and holidays. Spring 2022 Date of Change Calendar Day of Quarter Tuition Forfeiture Change of Registration Fee March 28 to April 3 1st - 7th 0% $0 April 4 - 26 8th - 30th 50% $20 April 27 31st day or later 100% $20 Schedule changes become effective the date they are received and processed in the Registration Office, or in an academic department. Class drops Note: Calendar days includes weekends and holidays. By the 7th calendar day of the quarter - full credit received for any reduction in tuition due to the drop Between the 8th & 30th* calendar days - refund of one-half of the tuition reduction associated with the drop, in addition to the $20 Late Change of Registration Fee After the 30th* calendar day - no reduction in tuition and also charged a $20 Late Change of Registration Fee *21st calendar day during summer quarter Course fees If the student drops the course by the 14th calendar day of the quarter, the Course Fee is automatically canceled from the student’s account. If the course is dropped after the 14th calendar day, the Course Fee is presumed to be owed and remains on the student’s account. Cancellation of the Course Fee after the 14th calendar day must be processed by the academic department. Departments may request access to the Student database to cancel or adjust the fee for specific students. Withdrawals Students who withdraw may be entitled to a refund of all or a portion of the tuition and fees for a given quarter depending on when the withdrawal is completed. Please note calendar days includes weekends and holidays. By the 7th calendar day of the quarter - pay no tuition Between the 8th & 30th calendar day* of the quarter are required to pay half tuition After the 30th calendar day* of the quarter are required to pay full tuition *21st calendar day in Summer Quarter Forfeitures If you make a change to your schedule that results in a lower tuition charge after the 7th calendar day of the quarter, you are charged a tuition forfeiture fee. This also applies if you withdraw fully from the quarter. You are charged one-half of the tuition reduction (50% forfeiture) for classes dropped from the 8th through the 30th calendar day of the three main quarters of the year (Autumn, Winter and Spring), or from the 8th to the 21st calendar day of Summer quarter. After this 50% forfeiture period passes, the forfeited amount rises to 100% of the tuition reduction. If you drop from one tuition rate to another, such as dropping below full-time or dropping from over 18 credits to below the 18 credit surcharge threshold, you will be charged the tuition rate for the number of credits that you are now taking, plus one-half of the difference between full-time tuition and your new rate. After the 30th calendar day of the quarter (or 21st for summer quarter) any classes dropped will not result in a reduction in the amount owed, as 100% of the difference would be forfeited. It is important to note, that forfeiture alone will not increase the tuition amount charged to be greater than you owed before the forfeiture. Forfeitures impact how much your tuition is reduced by making changes to your schedule. If your tuition has been paid with a waiver, dropping courses may make you ineligible for the waiver, and you would be responsible for the cost of the forfeiture as waivers do not cover forfeitures. Tuition rates by credit amount can be found on the Office of Planning and Budgeting to help calculate charges. Forfeiture fees may be waived for specific reasons. If your circumstance falls within the stated guidelines, and you fill out a petition and provide the required documentation, you may have the forfeiture fees waived. Seattle students may fill out the tuition forfeiture petition here. If you are a student at Bothell, Tacoma or Continuum College/Professional & Continuing Education, please visit the sites below: Bothell Campus Tacoma Campus Continuum College/Professional & Continuing Education If you are an international student planning to withdraw, please contact ISS regarding the impact to your visa status. ATTENTION ISHIP STUDENTS: The student database system will not automatically cancel ISHIP coverage if you withdraw or receive approval for tuition forfeiture. In these cases, you need to contact the ISHIP Office by the third Friday of the quarter to cancel the coverage otherwise you will be charged and may owe a late fee. Please note, ISHIP fees are not always refundable. The UW is obligated to pay our insurance carrier shortly after the third Friday of each quarter. If your cancellation request comes AFTER the UW has paid our insurance carrier, you will be responsible for ISHIP fees incurred during that quarter. Contact the ISHIP counselor to determine if you are still eligible for a refund. Refunds Refunds from tuition and fee payments are sent to the student directly: To receive refunds directly to your bank account, you must be setup for Direct Deposit If you do not have Direct Deposit setup, a check will be automaticaly sent to your local address on file. Please make sure your local address is up to date. Availability of refunds is determined by the method of payment used. Payments made by check or webcheck require 10 business days to refund. Credit card payments become eligible for refund 30 calendar days after the date of payment. The UW is not able to track the origin of each payment. Exceptions to this are scholarship payments which are returned to the sponsor. UW Professional & Continuing Education Certificate Program Students If you are enrolled in a certificate program through UW Professional & Continuing Education, please refer to the refund polices listed on the website.The refund deadlines displayed on MyUW do not apply to certificate programs. Withdrawals or Refunds for Financial Aid Recipients If you are a financial aid recipient and withdraw from all of your classes, please review guidelines for Withdrawal and Refund from the Office of Student Financial Aid. Students Who Withdraw from AEP Classes Academic English Program courses (ENGL 102, 103, and 104) follow the above listed UW policies regarding refunds and withdrawals. Contact aep@uw.edu if you are withdrawing from an AEP course after the quarter has begun. Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA