Skip Navigation Undergradute Financial Aid Logo_BentonBook_Bold Toggle Nav Open and Close Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application How Aid Works The Family Contribution The Student Budget The Financial Aid Award Financing Options Parent Loans Student Loans Policies & Procedures Change in Circumstances Computer Purchases DACA and Financial Aid Federal Verification Junior/Senior Dining Options Leave of Absence Outside Scholarships Satisfactory Academic Progress Sibling Enrollment Confirmation Student Health Plan Study Abroad Summer Programs Student Dependency Status Veterans Benefits Financial Literacy Budgeting Credit Taxes Student Employment Information for Undergraduates Information for University Employers Summer 2022: Guidelines for Student Employment Federal Work-Study: Information for Employers JobX / TimesheetX Supervisor FAQ Retroactive Chartsting and Wage Adjustments Sick Time and Worker's Compensation Students on Leave Wage Guidelines & Payroll Schedule Information for Off-Campus Employers Contact Information Information for Graduate Students Form Library Contact Us Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Enter your keywords Search icon Apply for Aid Additional Aid Application Requirements Tips for Submitting the Online Application Apply for Aid Note: The 2022-23 PFAA is available March 15, 2022 and the deadline for submission of the PFAA and supporting documentation is May 1, 2022. The instructions below are for currently enrolled students. If you are a prospective applicant to Princeton, please visit the admission & aid website. Complete the Princeton Financial Aid Application Log in to Financial Aid for Current Undergraduates to complete the PFAA online. We recommend you review the tips for submitting the online application. If not previously submitted, upload a copy of your parents' 2020 tax return and W-2 statements Once you submit the PFAA, you will be able to upload tax documents. The required document may be uploaded one time in the appropriate document type field. If needed, you may use the "other" field for an additional upload. The tax return upload should include the first two pages of the federal income tax return, all schedules, and W-2 statements. If your parents do not file a U.S. tax return, review the additional aid application requirements to determine which documents to upload. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid If you are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you are required to submit the FAFSA as part of your aid application. Be sure to include Princeton's Federal School Code, 002627, on the form to ensure we receive your completed FAFSA. Submit non-custodial parent information If your parents are divorced, separated or unmarried and living in separate households, and your custodial parent is not remarried, you are required to complete the Non-custodial Parent Form or Non-custodial Parent Waiver Request Form to be considered for need-based aid at Princeton. If a waiver has been granted in a prior year, you do not have to submit a waiver request in any subsequent year. For more information, including copies of the forms, review the additional aid application requirements. Apply Now Princeton University Main Site Contact Us FAQs Form Library Accessibility The Undergraduate Financial Aid and Student Employment Office resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746