Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Additional Initiatives Unique to Brown Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Basics The Brown Promise Sub Navigation In This Section Additional Initiatives Unique to Brown Additional Initiatives Unique to Brown Brown University supports a range of distinct initiatives to meet a family’s full demonstrated financial need. These initiatives make it easier for students from moderate-income backgrounds to choose Brown and worry less about accruing debt that might limit their professional choices after graduation. Starting with all students enrolled for the 2022-23 academic year, Brown will change the calculation of how much some families have to contribute to pay for their child’s education. Book/Course Material Support (BCMS) Program The Book/Course Material Support (BCMS) Program was developed to allow most Brown University Scholarship-eligible students to cover expenses for books and course materials that are required by instructors. The cost of these required materials will be covered by Brown. Since the cost of books and required course materials are being paid directly through the program, you will not see a book component in your estimated cost of attendance. Students may have to purchase supplies such as notebooks, paper, etc. throughout the academic year and an estimate of those expenses has been included in the personal expense component of your cost of attendance. Do I need to complete anything to participate in the program? As part of your participation in the BCMS Program, all students must complete a canvas course each year as acknowledgment before being allowed to purchase your books and course materials. You will receive instructions and next steps for the canvas course and acknowledgment by mid-August before you arrive at Brown. Should you have additional questions about the program, please contact bcms@brown.edu. How do I remain eligible for the BCMS program? To remain eligible to participate in the BCMS Program, a student must retain eligibility for University Scholarship. If at any time in the future you are no longer funded with University Scholarship, you will no longer be eligible to participate in the BCMS Program and you will need to pursue outside resources to cover the cost of books and materials. Please contact financial_aid@brown.edu for questions regarding your eligibility. Eliminating Home Equity for a family’s Primary Residence: The University will eliminate the consideration of a family’s home equity in their primary residence as an asset when calculating a student’s available financial resources. A primary residence is the primary location where a family resides. This includes a house, townhouse, condominium, apartment, etc,. as long as it is where a family lives. If the family lives in and owns a multi-family home, that home is considered both a primary residence and a financial investment. In this case, the value of the portion of the property in which the student’s family resides, is considered home equity and will be excluded. The other residence(s) are included in the calculation as a family asset for both federal and institutional eligibility. How is this going to affect my 2022-2023 parent contribution? The effect of this initiative on your parent contribution depends on your own individual financial situation. Student applications are reviewed individually; based on the family's financial profile and unique circumstances. There are many factors in determining the Parent Contribution and your home equity may have already been removed or reduced from our analysis. Therefore, you may not see a reduction in your overall parent contribution. My family owns and resides in a unit in a multi-family home. Will the equity for the entire property be excluded from my financial aid? No. The value of the portion of the multi-family residence in which your family lives is considered home equity and the remainder is included as other real estate/investment for considering eligibility in both federal and University need-based aid calculations. My family owns a home. It is currently not our primary residence because we are living elsewhere (abroad, employee own housing, etc.). Will the home equity be eliminated from the analysis of my financial need? No. Because your family is not currently residing in the home, it is not considered your primary residence and; therefore, will be included as a parent asset when calculating available financial resources. If, after initially applying for financial aid, my family re-allocates our savings and investments to pay down the mortgage on our primary residence, will that affect my parent contribution? No, the amount of home equity that is being eliminated in our financial need analysis is established within the initial review of your financial aid application and will not be adjusted in future years based on any reallocation of assets. Full Tuition (only) Scholarship Families with a total annual income equal to or below $125,000, that have typical assets for their income level, may be eligible for funding that covers the full cost of tuition. As such, for those that qualify, the amount of University Scholarship, federal and state grants, and outside resources will be at a level that ensures the total is equal to the cost of tuition (does not include fees, housing, and meals). Total Income/Earnings: The family income amount is the Adjusted Gross Income (which appears on the parent’s federal tax return), plus any nontaxable income, business/rental property losses, capital losses, or depreciation on real and/or rental property, as well as business distributions/payments and social security benefits. With total parent income established, we deduct allowances for certain non-discretionary expenses. After allowances, the needs-analysis formula determines the percentage of any remaining income to be used for educational expenses. For additional factors considered for income/earnings and allowances, please review the chart under the Parent Income tab. Typical Assets for a family’s income level usually reflects the sum of the following amounts: Cash, savings, checking Investments Equity in real estate other than the primary residence Business net worth NOTE: Brown does not include assets that are in a qualified retirement plan such as 401k, 403b, IRA, Keogh, or equity in your primary residence **The Office of Financial Aid reserves the right to make the final determination of the expected family contribution, in consideration of all factors affecting a family’s overall financial situation and ability to pay. What are typical assets according to Brown? Typical assets can include but are not limited to: Cash, savings, checking Investments Equity in real estate other than the primary residence Business net worth Typical assets do not include: Formal retirement (401k, 403b, IRA, Keogh) Equity in your primary residence NOTE: The Office of Financial Aid reserves the right to make the final determination of the expected family contribution, in consideration of all factors affecting a family’s overall financial situation and ability to pay. How does Brown define “total income/earnings”? Family income/earnings can include but are not limited to: Adjusted gross income (which appears on the federal tax return) Any nontaxable income Business/rental property losses Capital losses Depreciation on real and/or rental property Business distributions/payments Social Security benefits NOTE: For additional factors considered for income/earnings and allowances, please review the chart. What if my parents' total income/earnings have changed due to COVID-19? If your family experiences a significant or unexpected change in income/earnings after receiving your initial financial aid offer for the academic year or if you believe there are special circumstances that were not considered in the initial review of your financial aid application, please notify the Office of Financial Aid in writing. Use the Appeal Form to help you explain and document special circumstances such as a significant and unexpected change in income due to job loss, salary reduction, or a change in benefits. Reduced Student Earnings Expectations Reduced Student Earnings Expectations for our highest-needs students (those with $0 parent contributions) Starting with Academic Year 2022-23, the summer earnings expectation for students with a $0 Parent Contribution will be reduced by $1,000. This results in a student receiving a University Scholarship, federal grants, and/or outside scholarships in an amount of $1,000 ($500 per semester) in excess of direct costs for tuition, fees, room, and meals. With this change, Brown scholarships will cover all direct expenses while also supporting personal expenses. $0 Parent Contribution Direct Cost Scholarship Brown’s highest need students, coming from families with total incomes of less than $60,000 per year and assets less than $100,000, as determined by the Office of Financial Aid, will receive scholarship/grants equal to the amount of standard tuition, fees, room and meals. Reduces the amount the student is required to earn over the summer. The student arrives on campus with a $0 student account balance. Middle/Moderate Family Income Brown is also providing University scholarships to families with middle/moderate total incomes and has increased the scholarship awarded to these families. Brown financial aid awards include federal, state and institutional, need-based scholarship, and a Work-Study or Campus Employment component, but no loans. Health Insurance Scholarship All students at Brown are required to have health insurance. If a student is receiving University need-based scholarship and does not have comparable insurance coverage, Brown will provide a health insurance scholarship to cover the costs of insurance. These University initiatives are determined based on a family’s calculated total income. A family’s total income is determined by the Office of Financial aid through reviewing tax documents and financial aid application materials. Total income is the sum of Adjusted Gross Income plus all untaxed income. Examples of untaxed income include untaxed social security benefits, untaxed business revenue, pension contributions and withdrawals, child support received, etc. Please visit the parent income section of our website for complete details of the determination of total income. Contact Us If you have any questions we are here to help. Contact Us Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Additional Initiatives Unique to Brown Open details for Additional Initiatives Unique to Brown Bookmark this Page