Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Check Your Application Supplemental Forms Admissions Financial Aid Contact Us Financial.Aid@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Apply for Aid Prospective & Transfer Students How to Apply for Aid Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Financing Options Current Students Reapplying for Aid First-Time Application Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Selected for Federal Verification Financing Options Graduate Students Graduate Aid Overview Federal Loan Information Veteran Students International Students Undocumented Students Back to Top Nav How Aid Works Introduction to Financial Aid The D-Plan & Aid Study Abroad 2-Term/4-Term D-Plans Exchange Programs Transfer Terms Leave Terms How Much Help Will I Get? Understanding Your Award Back to Top Nav FAQS Policies & Resources Financial Aid Handbook Consumer Information Code of Conduct Federal Websites News and Announcements Back to Top Nav Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator Net Price Calculators Back to Top Nav Federal Verification How Federal Verification Works Data Retrieval or Tax Transcript? IRS Data Retrieval IRS Tax Transcript Data To Be Verified Verification FAQs Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Current Students Circumstances evolve, D-Plans change, but Dartmouth remains committed to helping you. Looking up at the atrium in the Sherman Fairchild Physical Sciences Center. From the Moosilauke Ravine Lodge, a view of the sunset over Moosilauke. A student works on a painting in Lecturer Thomas Ferrara's "Drawing II/III" class. The bell tower on top of Dartmouth Hall provides a dramatic silhouette. PreviousNext Reapplying for Aid Find the forms needed each year to receive Dartmouth and federal aid.Read More First-Time Application Contact our office if your circumstances have changed and you find that you need help.Read More Types of Financial Aid Federal aid, scholarships, work-study jobs, student loans, and veterans' benefits.Read More Check Your Application Keep track of deadlines and make sure everything is in order.Read More Selected for Federal Verification Find help with the extra steps required for this process.Read More Financing Options Discover different ways to manage the payments you need to make.Read More Prospective & Transfer Students Current Students Reapplying for Aid First-Time Application Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Selected for Federal Verification Financing Options Graduate Students Veteran Students International Students Undocumented Students Share Main menu Dartmouth College Financial Aid Apply for Aid Prospective & Transfer Students How to Apply for Aid Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Financing Options Current Students Reapplying for Aid First-Time Application Types of Financial Aid Check Your Application Selected for Federal Verification Financing Options Graduate Students Graduate Aid Overview Federal Loan Information Veteran Students International Students Undocumented Students How Aid Works Introduction to Financial Aid The D-Plan & Aid Study Abroad 2-Term/4-Term D-Plans Exchange Programs Transfer Terms Leave Terms How Much Help Will I Get? Understanding Your Award FAQS Policies & Resources Financial Aid Handbook Consumer Information Code of Conduct Federal Websites News and Announcements Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator Net Price Calculators Federal Verification How Federal Verification Works Data Retrieval or Tax Transcript? IRS Data Retrieval IRS Tax Transcript Data To Be Verified Verification FAQs Check Your Application Supplemental Forms Admissions Ribbon Footer The return on investment will be enormous. For you, for Dartmouth, and for the world you will transform. Investing in your future and the worlds The MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator is a tool to help families estimate their out of pocket expenses to attend Dartmouth College. Quick Cost Estimator Dartmouth ranks as one of the best value schools in the nation, and is committed to making your aspirations a reality. Best value school Close Work-study postings and other part-time jobs. Discover new employment opportunities on and off campus. Student Employment Office All you need to know about your bill, refunds, and Dartmouth Loans. Plus, check out the Billing Office's latest news bulletins. Student Financial Services Learn how you might become a member of this vibrant community. Application information for all prospective students. Admissions Close People Director G. Dino Koff Find Us Address Dartmouth College 6024 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-2451 Fax: (603) 646-1414 HB: HB 6024 Email: Financial.Aid@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Close Quick Cost Estimator Related Sites Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback