Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Apply for Aid Receive Aid Receive your aid Generally, funds are issued in two disbursements: one in the fall semester and one in the spring semester. Disbursement is based on your enrollment status. Financial aid will typically apply to your student account about one week before the first day of classes each semester and be automatically applied toward current tuition, required fees, and housing charges. As a service and convenience to you, KU will apply any excess federal financial aid to other charges, such as sports passes and library fees; you can choose how to apply this aid in Enroll & Pay. If you decline this service, you will still be responsible for any outstanding charges. The university may place holds on your enrollment and/or academic transcripts until billed charges are paid in full. Meet enrollment requirements If you are enrolled in at least 12 hours as an undergraduate or nine hours as a graduate, professional, or law student, your awards will be disbursed, provided you have a complete financial aid file. Hours requirements must be met prior to the first day of classes. If you cannot meet this requirement prior to the first day of classes, awards may not credit your account or appear as anticipated aid until you are enrolled in the applicable minimum hours. Receive disbursement of scholarships from donors outside of KU Scholarships awarded through outside agencies will generally be credited to your student account once you endorse any checks received by FAS. Outside awards of $1,500 or more are typically divided equally between fall and spring semesters unless the donor instructs otherwise. Authorize direct deposit Complete the Direct Deposit Authorization form, which allows financial aid, scholarships, and other credit balances to be electronically deposited into your bank account. KU Student Accounts & Receivables requires direct deposit for student account refunds on the Lawrence and Edwards campuses. You may complete the form on Enroll & Pay (Student Center > Finances > Set Up Direct Deposit). Parents may also complete the Direct Deposit Authorization form for PLUS loans at sar.ku.edu/direct-deposit. Receive a financial aid refund If your financial aid exceeds the amount due on your eBill, you will see a credit balance on your account and receive a refund from Student Accounts & Receivables. If you don't sign up for direct deposit, a check will be mailed to your billing address. Financial aid refunds are typically available six business days after your financial aid disbursement. The first day to obtain a refund for a particular semester is typically one or two days before the first day of classes. Excess PLUS loan funds go to the parent borrower. Receive Federal Work-Study (FWS) funds Federal Work-Study is disbursed much differently than other financial aid awards. You will earn a bi-weekly paycheck based on hours worked. FWS funds will never automatically credit your KU eBill. See the Work-Study page for more information. Steps for obtaining aid File the FAFSA Select to follow link Accept Aid Select to follow link Maintain Aid Select to follow link Transfer Aid Select to follow link KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.