Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Tuition & Fees Disbursement of Financial Aid Disbursement of Financial Aid Menu Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid Mailing of Aid Checks State of Washington 529 Plans If you receive loans, scholarships, and/or grants, you are expected to sign up for direct deposit. You may do this on MyUW under Direct Deposit Transfer Setup. You must set up your direct deposit account at least five days before aid can be deposited to your bank account. For further assistance, please read How To Set Up Direct Deposit. To sign up for Direct Deposit, you will need your: UW NetId and password Bank routing number Bank account number Your tuition and most other charges will be deducted from your financial aid before any money is deposited to your bank account. In most cases, the excess funds will be available in your bank account before the first day of the quarter. You may view your Tuition Statement on MyUW to verify the availability of your aid. If you are not signed up for direct deposit, any refund or financial aid checks will be mailed to your local address on file. Be sure to check your address information on MyUW and update it if necessary to avoid any postal delays. Aid checks may take up to 10 business days to reach you by mail. Signing up for direct deposit is strongly encouraged to receive your funds quickly and safely. If you lose your check, or have not cashed it within 90 days of the date it was issued, you can request a replacement by submitting a check affidavit. Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid Mailing of Aid Checks State of Washington 529 Plans LOGIN ECSI Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA