Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Private Scholarships Menu Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding You must be registered for classes for the current quarter before any funds can be released to your account. Any funds in excess of account charges may be released to you, unless sponsors wish to have excess funds returned to them, we will return it directly to them. If you are not registered for the current quarter, the funds may be applied to a future quarter. Funds will always be applied to your account according to the sponsor’s wishes. However, if no instructions are provided by the sponsor, all checks for $2,000 or more will be split over the remaining quarters in the academic year. Checks for less than $2,000 will be applied to the current quarter. **Note: If you are a Financial Aid recipient, please notify the Office of Financial Aid of any scholarships you are receiving as additional funds could impact your financial aid package. You can e mail them at osfa@uw.edu or call them at 206-543-6101. If you will not be attending the University of Washington, the sponsor may request a refund from Student Fiscal Services. If you are registered only for Professional and Continuing Education (PCE) classes, scholarship funds cannot be released to pay your tuition or to print you a check. Check with PCE for payment instructions. Note: The University Bookstore is not part of the University of Washington and charges for books are not included in University charges. ACH/Wire Payments If would like to pay by wire transfer please contact sfshelp@uw.edu to obtain the banking information. Please ensure that you include the UW student’s full name, student number, and invoice (if applicable) in the wire. For International students and sponsors, we recommend FlyWire or Western Union as a more reliable method to make your payment. Use the icon at the bottom of our Tuition Payment page to initiate payment. Scholarship Checks If your sponsor is paying by check, the check must be made payable to the University of Washington. The check must be drawn on a U.S. bank and payable in U.S. dollars. If the sponsor requires that the check be made payable to both you and the University of Washington, the sponsor should mail the check directly to you for endorsement. After endorsing the check, mail or bring the check to the Student Fiscal Services Office. Scholarship checks should be mailed to: University of Washington - Scholarships PO Box 24967 Seattle, WA 98124-0967 Please have the sponsor include the following information with the check: Student name UW student number or social security number Quarter or academic year that the payment covers Sponsor’s full address, including fax and email address if available Contact Email: sfsschol@uw.edu Phone: 206-543-4694 Fax: 206-685-2942 Home Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA