Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home UW Depts Invoice Receivables Invoice Receivables Menu Home UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Student Fiscal Services (SFS) oversees the central billing service for UW Invoice Receivables. The Invoice Receivables services provided through SFS meet the requirements of the State of Washington for the billing, managing and reporting of miscellaneous receivables for departments. Receivables Procedures Departments working with SFS for their Invoice Receivables can obtain a print out of the full receivable procedures here. If the department chooses to manage the invoice receivable processes without assistance from SFS, please review the procedures and standards for the State of Washington. If this option is selected, the department is required to meet all State requirements. The following links are provided for online viewing for departments working with SFS for their invoicing needs: Overview & Reporting Requirements Procedures & Forms Payments Adjustments & Cancellations Invoice Management Process Online links for frequently used forms for departments working with SFS for their invoicing needs: Request to add new Invoice Receivables Budget - NetID login required New budgets must be initially added to the IR system before any invoices can be processed. Allow two business days for processing. SFS will email when new budget has been added to the billing system. Invoice Entry - NetID login required Invoice data must be entered prior to invoice being sent to the customer. If the invoice entry is before 3pm, the invoice can be sent to the customer after noon on the following day. If the entry is after 3pm; wait one more day to send the invoice. We will let you know by noon the following day if there is a problem with the data upload. Please read requirements for invoice entries in the Procedures & Forms section listed above. Invoice template examples updated December 2018. Excel Invoice Template Example Please personalize invoice with department specific information. Word Invoice Template Example Please personalize invoice with department specific information. Home UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Quick Links Request for Training for budgets on SDB How to Cancel an Award SDB Access request Tuition Rates Request Access to Reports Browse / View Reports Need Help? Student Fiscal Services UW Invoices 1410 NE Campus Parkway Box 355872 Seattle, WA 98195 Phone 206-543-7560 invoices@uw.edu Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA