Skip to Main Content Brown University Undergraduate Financial Aid Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Search Undergraduate Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Breadcrumb Home Estimate Cost & Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Cost of Attendance Paying for Travel Expenses Buying A Computer Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Cost of Attendance Knowing the costs associated with a Brown education can help students and families from all income levels plan ahead and find appropriate financial support. 2022-23 Academic Year Direct/Billed Charges Tuition $62,680 Fees (includes $100 Academic record fee for first time students) $2,466 Room $9,368 Meals $6,472 Subtotal - Direct Charges $80,986 Indirect Estimated Expenses Personal $2,700 Total Direct and Indirect Charges $83,683 Regardless of a family’s financial situation, attending college is a major investment. The Cost of Attendance represents a combination of direct charges and estimated indirect expenses. It is important to plan for these. Direct or Billed Costs Direct or billed costs are charges billed directly to student accounts (bills) each semester such as tuition, mandatory fees, and room and meals. Indirect Estimated Costs Indirect estimated costs do not appear on student accounts (bills) and vary based on the individual student. These costs include books, personal expenses and possibly travel. Students may experience different levels of indirect expenses; however, the values listed represent allowances provided for the academic year. Books Most University Scholarship eligible students will be part of the Book/Course Materials Support (BCMS) Program; all books and required course material are covered by the University and are obtained at the Brown Bookstore at no cost to the student. Therefore, a book expense is not included as part of the Cost of Attendance (COA) in the financial aid offer. For those students who are not part of the program, the standard allowance of $1,300 is the estimated cost of books and is included in the COA. Personal The standard allowance is based on estimated costs incurred for personal expenses during the academic year including clothing, laundry, toiletries, cell phone expenses, entertainment, local transportation, additional educationally-related supplies, and other incidentals. The allowance can serve as a planning tool to help students determine how much money to have available for these expenses. Travel Allowance An allowance for travel will be included in the Cost of Attendance based on a student’s home address. Students are responsible for all aspects of booking and paying for travel to and from Brown. To pay for travel up front, students are expected to use a portion of the funds they earn over the summer, as well as funds that are earned throughout the academic year as part of a student’s on or off campus employment. Student Health Insurance Plan and Individual Expenses A student’s health and individual expenses are not included in the Cost of Attendance. For example, students are required to have health insurance while attending Brown. If a student does not waive the University's health insurance plan, the Cost of Attendance will include an additional component for this charge, which for the academic year 2022-23 is $4,255. Additional individual expenses not included may include: clothing for the New England climate, computer expenses, additional trips home during the academic year, etc. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Apply for Aid First Year & Transfer Students Current Students Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Appeal Process for Aid Awards Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Estimators & Calculators Study Away & Study Abroad Additional Circumstances Basics The Brown Promise and other initiatives Financial Need & Eligibility The FAFSA Institutional Documents Service (IDOC) Financing Your Education Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (FASAP) Federal COVID student aid funding (March 2021) Types of Aid Other Grants & Scholarships Optional Student Loans Student Employment Other Types of Aid Veteran Benefit Support Forms Uploading Documents Through Banner Self-Service Graduate Info Contact Us Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info for This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Cost of Attendance Open details for Cost of Attendance Bookmark this Page