https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Graduate Students | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Graduate Students Graduate students who are U.S. citizens and permanent residents can apply for federal direct loans through the financial aid office, and we assist with certifying private education loan applications. All other funds for graduate students are awarded through their academic department. Important Information for Graduate Students Before you apply for financial aid, here are some important things you need to know: In determining the dollar amount of eligibility, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid will automatically use the lower cost paid by students receiving Graduate Research Assistantships (GRAs)/Graduate Teaching Assistantships (GTAs) through their departments. If you will not receive an assistantship, you should contact our office or Financial Aid Advisor upon receipt of your award notice. Each term, students must be enrolled in at least six credit hours required for their degree program to receive education loan disbursements. Financial Aid Application Steps Federal Direct Loans To apply for Federal Direct Loans, graduate students must submit two forms and complete the following applications for the appropriate academic year: Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GTAPP) Be sure to indicate on your GTAPP that you want to be considered for loans. If you have difficulty logging onto the GT application, click here. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) We strongly encourage you to use IRS Data Retrieval Tool when completing the FAFSA. Georgia Tech's Title IV school code is 001569. The priority filing deadline for fall is January 31, and the final deadline for fall and spring is July 31. Submit the GTAPP Submit the FAFSA Private Education Loans To apply for private education loans, students must submit their application directly to the participating loan lender. Our office can provide the financial information required to complete self-certification form. Learn more about how to choose a lender and complete the application process. Private Loan Steps Federal Work Study To be considered for a Federal Work Study award, you must complete both the following application each year by the posted deadlines. Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GTAPP) Be sure to indicate on your GTAPP that you want to be considered for loans. If you have difficulty logging onto the GT application, click here. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) We strongly encourage you to use IRS Data Retrieval Tool when completing the FAFSA. Georgia Tech's Title IV school code is 001569. The priority filing deadline for fall is January 31, and the final deadline for fall and spring is July 1. Submit the GTAPP Submit the FAFSA Next Steps Learn about the financial aid award process, including information on how aid is determined, instructions for accepting your awards, and more! The Award Process Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology