https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Verification Process | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Verification Process Verification is the process established by the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) to check the accuracy of a student’s financial aid application. This process requires applicants to provide documentation such as federal tax forms to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid (OSFA). Our office then compares the data provided on the original application with the documentation and makes any necessary changes. Students only need to provide verification and tax documents upon request. You will be initially notified via email if you're selected for verification review. 2022-23 Verification Process To simplify and streamline the verification process, the DOE has implemented a “Prior-Prior Year” (PPY) policy. With PPY, the income reported on the FAFSA will be from “two years prior” to the application year for the 2022-23 award year. That will be tax data from your 2020 Tax Return. By using earlier income data, families will have their completed tax information available by the time they are ready to apply for financial aid. This will make it easier to fill in application forms, and increase the likelihood that families will be able to import their 2020 income directly from the IRS using the online Data Retrieval Tool. Video not supported. Selected for Verification? If you are selected for verification, you will need to provide the specific documentation requested based on academic year and your dependency status. Financial aid awards are not final and will not be disbursed until the verification process is complete. Step 1: View Your Required Verification Documents Follow these steps to view your required verification documents: Log into OSCAR Select Secured Access Login Select Student Services & Financial Aid Select Financial Aid Select My Requirements and Eligibility Select 2022-23 Aid Year Log into OSCAR Step 2: Submit Required Documents Option 1: Submit documents via portal OSFA has implemented a secure portal for students and parents to upload required documentation (such as tax forms) to complete the federal aid process for the 2022-23 academic year. Find additional instructions on accessing the portal in OSCAR under My Requirements and Eligibility. You must authenticate your account before you can login. Once you have an account, login to upload required documents. Go to Portal Option 2: Submit documents via mail or fax Georgia Institute of Technology Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid 225 North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332-0460 Fax: 404.894.7412 Step 3: Finish the Verification Process Once all requested documents are received, we will review them accordingly. If discrepant information is found, corrections will be made and additional time will be needed for processing. Important Priority Deadlines There are priority deadlines in place to assure that your verification is processed in time to be considered for limited institutional funds. October 1, 2021 Federal IRS Data Retrieval Tool Available for 2022-23 January 31, 2022 Verification deadline for Incoming First-Year Students January 31, 2022 Verification deadline for all other Returning/Transfer students Consequences for Failing to Meet Verification Deadlines If the priority deadline is missed, we will continue to perform verification of your financial aid application. However, there are consequences, which include: Institutional funds offered on an initial award letter may be canceled. Federal funds (Pell Grant, Federal Work Study, Loans) offered on an initial award letter will be canceled until all requested verification documentation is received, reviewed and the FAFSA determined to be valid. Students completing verification after the deadline may be able to receive the Federal funds listed above on a reimbursement basis, contingent on meeting all other eligibility requirements. Required Verification Documents Review detailed information on how to find, complete, and submit requested verification documents. 2021-22 Document Requirements 2022-23 Document Requirements Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology