https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Federal Work Study | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Federal Work Study Federal Work-Study (FWS) provides part-time jobs for undergraduate students with financial need, allowing them to earn money to help pay education expenses. The program encourages community service work and work related to the student’s course of study. At Georgia Tech, FWS is awarded to undergraduate students who enroll at least half-time and demonstrate financial need. FWS awards generally vary from $600 to $1,500 per semester and are earned during the period of enrollment. Students may work in an on-campus, off-campus, or in a community service position. Advantages of participating in the FWS program include: The money you earn helps to meet college expenses and will not be counted as income for your financial aid eligibility determination next year. You get on-the-job experience to give you an edge in the job market after graduation. You're able to work with accomplished professionals in their field, which provides you with valuable references in the future. Video not supported. Want To Learn More? Review the different FWS position types, pay rates, frequently asked questions, and more. Explore FWS Options Apply for FWS To be considered for a FWS award, you must complete both the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and Georgia Tech Application for Scholarships and Financial Aid (GT App) each year by the posted deadlines. Application Steps Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology