https://gatech.studentadvisor.ai/virtualadvisor Consumer Information and Policies | Financial Aid Your browser does not support JavaScript! Menu Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Home Costs Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Graduate Cost Adjustments Net Price Calculator Return on Investment Types of Aid Undergraduate Aid Scholarships Grants Federal Work Study Loans Graduate Aid Apply for Aid Incoming Undergraduates Fall First-Year Students Summer First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Transient Students Returning Undergraduates Fall and Spring Students Summer Students Graduate Students Graduate Students Award Process Award Process How Aid is Determined Verification Notification of Aid Notification of Aid Understanding Your Award Letter Accept/Decline Your Award Finalize Your Award Finalize Your Loans Receive Your Aid Manage Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Maintaining Eligibility for Aid Enrollment Requirements Satisfactory Academic Progress Reapply for Aid Appeal Procedures Work Study Employer Information Student Information Consumer Information & Policies Consumer Information & Policies Tax Information After You Graduate Check Status Contact Us Consumer Information and Policies Financial Aid Disclosures Georgia Tech has in place certain policies pertaining to financial aid to stay within Federal guidelines of how we may disburse money to students. As a recipient of financial aid, you should be aware of our policies concerning: Award Process and Eligibility Requirements Disclosure Description Applying for Financial Assistance Financial aid can help make college more affordable. Review the application steps. Criteria for Selecting Recipients Learn how financial aid awards are determined and awarded. Maintaining Eligibility for Aid All financial aid awards are reviewed annually based on certain criteria. Enrollment Requirements Learn about the enrollment requirements that must be met to maintain financial aid eligibility. Satisfactory Academic Progress Students must maintain certain standards of academic progress to qualify and remain eligible for financial assistance. Verification of Participation Instructional faculty are required to report whether a student enrolled in their class is engaged with the course. Federal Loan Information Disclosure Description Cohort Default Rate A cohort default rate is the percentage of a school's borrowers who enter repayment on certain Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program or Federal Direct Loan Program loans during a particular federal fiscal year. Criteria for Loan Eligibility Learn about the eligibility requirements for Federal Loan borrowers. Loan Exit Counseling Graduating students who take out Federal Loans must complete Exit Counseling. Appeals, Withdraws, and Refunds Disclosure Description Grade Substitution Policy First-year students who receive a grade of D or F may be eligible to exclude the grade from their academic average. Return of Title IV Funds Policy Students who withdraw from Georgia Tech may be required to repay a portion of their financial aid awards. Student Appeals Learn about the appeal process and the procedures for requesting an exception. Other Disclosures and Policies Disclosure Description Cost of Attendance Review the cost of attendance for the current, upcoming, and previous years. Net Price Calculator Georgia Tech's Net Price Calculator provides an estimated cost of attendance based on previous years. Student Employment - Federal Work Study Program Federal Work Study provides part-time jobs for students with financial need to help pay education expenses. OSFA Policy on Information Sharing OSFA will not release student data without the written consent of that student. Code of Conduct regarding Private Lending and Student Choice Georgia Tech adheres to the principles of openness and transparency in relationships with lenders offering educational loan programs. CARES Grant In line with the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, Georgia Tech received a limited amount of grant funds for current students. Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (HEERF II) Georgia Tech received award notices for the Higher Education Emergency Relief supplemental awards (HEERF II) totaling $5,194,039, which will be distributed to eligible Georgia Tech students. Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (HEERF III) Georgia Tech’s plan for student relief grants is currently under review. Upon approval, the plan will be posted to this page. Opt Out of Electronic Notifications and Disclosures Form Complete this form to opt out of certain electronic communications, notifications, and disclosures surrounding federal financial aid and student loan information. General Campus Disclosures About the Institution Disclosure Description Institute Strategic Plan Georgia Tech’s mission and 2020-30 strategic plan are focused on making a positive impact in the lives of people everywhere. Graduation and Retention Rates Georgia Tech identifies, evaluates, and publishes goals and outcomes for student achievement appropriate to the mission. Career Placement Rates The Georgia Tech Career Survey is designed to capture students’ post-graduation plans, particularly with regard to employment and further education. Accreditation Information Georgia Tech is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral degrees. Majors and Degree Programs Georgia Tech's wide variety of technology-focused majors and minors consistently earn strong national rankings. Admission Information Disclosure Description Office of Undergraduate Admission Visit the Office of Undergraduate Admission website to review admission requirements for incoming first-year and transfer students. Transfer Credit Evaluation Review the Transfer Credit Policy to determine if coursework completed at another institution will transfer to Georgia Tech. Office of Graduate Studies Visit the Office of Graduate Studies website to learn more about Georgia Tech's graduate degree programs and admission requirements. Athletics Disclosure Description Equity in Athletics Data Analysis The Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA) requires all all co-educational postsecondary institutions to report data relating to the equity of its intercollegiate athletics program. Academic Progress Rate Georgia Tech athletics continues to excel in the NCAA’s Academic Progress Rate (APR) metric, according to the latest data released by the NCAA. Campus Safety Information Disclosure Description Crime Statistics Every month, the Georgia Tech Police Department updates the year-to-date crime statistics. Fire Statistics Learn more about Georgia Tech's fire statistics and safety protocols. Missing Persons Procedures The Missing Student Notification policy details the process to be followed in the event that a student is determined to be missing. Emergency Response and Evacuation The Georgia Tech Office of Emergency Preparedness works to mitigate and prepare for disasters by developing plans to address the threats and risks that exist on campus. Student Life and Campus Services Disclosure Description Student Activities Explore the various clubs and organizations available on campus to help you pursue your passions and interests. Student Diversity Learn more about student demographics in relation to admissions, enrollment, and degrees conferred at Georgia Tech. Office of Disability Services The Office of Disability Services improves the education experience of students with disabilities through equitable access, accommodations, and the provision of programs and services. Substance Abuse Prevention Disclosure Description Campus Alcohol Policy The Campus Alcohol Policy provides a consistent approach to alcohol usage on-campus and at official Georgia Tech events, and adheres to federal, state, and local laws and ordinances, as well as Board of Regents' policy. AlcoholEdu for Sanctions AlcoholEdu for Sanctions is an online program to help students evaluate their current choices related to alcohol, and assist students in making safer and healthier decisions. Drug-Free Workplace Information In compliance with the federal Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 and Drug-Free School and Communities Act Amendments of 1989, Georgia Tech has established this policy on employee alcohol and illegal drug use. Textbooks and Course Materials Disclosure Description Textbook Pricing The Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech website provides pricing for course materials and textbooks. Textbook Rental Learn about Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech's textbook rental options. Financial Aid and Textbooks Eligible students may apply financial aid (if applicable) to pay for textbooks and supplies when purchased from the Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech retail store located at Technology Square. Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology