Michigan State University - Office of Financial Aid Office of Financial Aid search form Search term Submit button Go Home The Process Completing Your FAFSA Aid Eligibility Verification Notification of Awards Disbursement Refunds Applying for Summer Dropping & Withdrawing Types of Aid Scholarships & Grants Loans Work-Study Education Savings Plans Education Tax Credits Michigan Indian Tuition Waiver Course Fee Courtesy Costs Calculators Sample Budgets Billing References Calendar of Financial Aid College Affordability Credits Per Grade Level Enrolled vs. Registered Enrollment Chart Federal Notices Frequently Asked Questions Glossary Institutional Awards Policy Money Management Newsletters Our Code of Conduct Our Mission Statement Regulation Changes StuInfo Guest Access Terms and Conditions Video Library Special Info Academic Advisors Executive MBA / SC Mgmt Graduate Students High School Students International Students Law Students Medical Students Non-Resident Students Non-US Citizen Students Parents Resident Assistants Student-Athletes Students with Children Students with Disabilities Study Abroad Teaching Internships Veterans Contact Us Have questions? Ask Sparty! Special Information MSU CARES Act Reporting MSU CRRSA Act Reporting MSU ARP Reporting College of Law CARES Act Reporting Academic Advisors Executive MBA / SC Mgmt Graduate Students High School Students International Students Law Students + Medical Students ABLE Program Budget Planning Contact Info Health Insurance Waiver Health Professions Loans Helpful Links Increasing Your Budget Loans for Medical Students Loans for Relocation Loan Repayment Satisfactory Academic Progress Non-Resident Students Parents Resident Assistants Student-Athletes Students with Children Students with Disabilities Study Abroad Teaching Internships Veterans You are here: Home » Special Information » CARES Act Reporting CARES Act Reporting Reporting Requirements for CARES Act Funding for Students The following information must appear in a format and location that is easily accessible to the public 30 days after the date when the institution received its allocation under 18004(a)(1) and updated every 45 days thereafter: Since funds were expended completely in the first quarter, there are no further changes to report. 1. An acknowledgement that the institution signed and returned to the Department the Certification and Agreement and the assurance that the institution has used, or intends to use, no less than 50 percent of the funds received under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. On April 10th, 2020, Michigan State University's President Samuel Stanley signed, certified, and returned an assurance the school will use at least 50% of the funds received from the CARES Act to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. 2. The total amount of funds that the institution will receive or has received from the Department pursuant to the institution’s Certification and Agreement [for] Emergency Financial Aid Grants to Students. Michigan State University received $14,918,294 from the CARES act on May 8th, 2020 for the purposes of Emergency Financial Aid Grants for students. 3. The total amount of Emergency Financial Aid Grants distributed to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act as of the date of submission (i.e., as of the 30-day Report and every 45 days thereafter). Michigan State University has distributed $14,918,294 of Federal funds in Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students as of May 20th, 2020. 4. The estimated total number of students at the institution eligible to participate in programs under Section 484 in Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 and thus eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act. Michigan State University had 27,306 eligible students at the time of fund distribution. 5. The total number of students who have received an Emergency Financial Aid Grant to students under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act. Michigan State University has distributed Emergency Financial Aid Grants to 7,844 students. 6. The method(s) used by the institution to determine which students receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants and how much they would receive under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act. MSU students were notified of the availability of CARES Act funds through a joint email update from the University President and Provost on 4/28/20. The notice directed them to an online application system for CARES Act funds. The application system verified the student was eligible for Title IV federal financial aid by identifying the presence of a valid FAFSA record and a non-denial Satisfactory Academic Progress status. The application required the student to indicate which of the federally approved conditions for funding they met and then for the specific financial impact experienced and the dollar amount of that impact. Students were limited to the amount they requested generally not to exceed $4,000 for a federal Pell Grant eligible student or $1,000 for a student who was not eligible for a federal Pell Grant. 7. Any instructions, directions, or guidance provided by the institution to students concerning the Emergency Financial Aid Grants. The email notices to students regarding the availability of the CARES Act funds, described in #6 above, provided general information about the initiative. The more specific details were provided in a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) document MSU created and posted online on the Office of Financial Aid website as well as the StuInfo student portal. The notices of the availability of grants linked students to this FAQ which explained the eligibility and application processes. The original FAQ was updated when the US Secretary of Education issued a second series of guidance that constrained eligibility to certain student populations. Reporting Requirements for CARES Act Institutional Funding Michigan State University Final Budget and Expenditure Report under the CARES Act Sections 18004(a)(1) Institutional Portion, 18004(a)(2), and 18004(a)(3), if applicable, covering the quarter ending September 30, 2020. Since funds were expended completely in the first quarter, there are no further changes to report. Contact Us Site Map © Michigan State University Board of Trustees. East Lansing, MI 48824 MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Visit msu.edu Follow @msufinaid