Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Tuition & Fees Tuition Overview Pay Tuition & Fees Drops, Withdrawals, Forfeitures & Refunds Registration Holds Disbursement of Financial Aid State of Washington 529 Plans Scholarships & Taxes Private Scholarships Scholarships and Sponsors Student Taxes Employees' Tuition Exemption Tax Withholding Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices UW Depts Departmental Scholarships and Fellowships Departmental Loan Authorizations Forms and Job Aids for Departments Invoice Receivables Red Flag Guidelines Student Account Reports Resources Information Release Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Forms for Students Petitions Common Calendar About SFS Staff Directory Reports Contact Us Student Fiscal Services Home Loans & Receivables Short-Term Loans Short-Term Loans Menu Home Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices Short-term Loans (STL) are available to registered students who are experiencing an urgent but short-term financial need. Students may apply for a short-term loan through their account on MyUW. This loan fund is administered by the Office of Student Financial Aid. Before applying for a short term loan, make sure your address and direct deposit information is up to date to ensure quick receipt of your funds. Apply for a Short Term Loan Spring quarter short-term loans are due July 15, 2022. Short-term loans taken out in Winter quarter are due April 22, 2022. You may request one extension per loan. Short-term Loan Repayment Please check with the Office of Student Financial Aid (206.543.6101, osfa@uw.edu) to determine if other forms of aid are available before taking out a short-term loan. If you have an urgent need and are in a crisis, please visit the Emergency Aid website. There may be other options available to assist you. Please consider carefully your ability to repay, prior to borrowing short term loan funds. A short-term loan is intended to be paid within a short time span. We encourage students to find a way to pay the short-term loans as soon as possible or make as many smaller payments before the due date. Unless a one-time extension is granted, short-term loans are due in full on the fourth Friday of the following quarter. There are no deferment or forbearance options available for short-term loans. Loans that remain unpaid after the due date are transferred from MyUW to the University’s billing servicer, ECSI, 888.549.3274. A past due short-term loan is subject to late fees. Payment plans can be made with ECSI. A payment plan in good standing will prevent referral to collection agencies. Loans assigned to ECSI may be reported to the National Credit Reporting agencies and become part of your credit history. Collection fees based on a percentage up to 40% of the amount owed will be added to the balance if your loan is referred to a collection agency. Should you need an extension, please contact us in the first week of the quarter your loan is due. There is an additional charge of $30.00 to extend the due date to the next quarter. Only one extension is allowed per short-term loan. If you have questions about repayment of your short-term loan, please contact Student Fiscal Services at 206-543-4694. Advisors are available to assist you with your questions regarding your loan and other financial matters. Short-term Loan Extension Request Home Loans & Receivables Student Loans Short-Term Loans Loan Repayment Loan Forms Delinquent Accounts Bankruptcy Notices LOGIN ECSI Support Need Help? Address: 1410 NE Campus Parkway Schmitz Hall, Room 129 Seattle, WA 98195-5870 Campus Map Email: sfshelp@uw.edu Phone: (206) 543-4694 Phone Hours: 10:00am - 4:00pm Campus Mailbox: 355870 Office Hours: M-F 12:00pm - 4:00pm Was this page helpful? Let us know Powered by Drupal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2015-2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA