Skip to main content Email Hours Blog Search the Collections Toggle navigation SCRC Home Collections Collections Programs Programs Education Education Services Services About About Visit Giving Library Home Home/ SCRC/ Collections/ Search the Collection/ Finding Aids Finding Aids Home/ SCRC/ Collections/ Search the Collection/ Finding Aids Finding Aids Home/ SCRC/ Collections/ Search the Collection/ Finding Aids Basic Search Label for XTF Purposes Label for XTF Purposes Keyword: Label for XTF Purposes Advanced Search Select options Collection Title Creator Subject Year Type of Material Item Title Any Label for XTF Purposes Select options OR AND NOT Select options Collection Title Creator Subject Year Type of Material Item Title Any Label for XTF Purposes Select options OR AND NOT Select options Collection Title Creator Subject Year Type of Material Item Title Any Label for XTF Purposes Multi-column Section About our Finding Aids Search for photographs, correspondence, artwork, memorabilia, rare books and printed works found within our collections. Finding aids are inventories to the contents of archival collections. We give several ways to access Finding aids for the SCRC collections. Note that this is a search of all finding aids that are currently online. It does not search finding aids that are not yet in electronic format, and is therefore an incomplete search of our holdings. Select one or more parameters for your search. Enclose phrases in quotes (e.g. "civil war"). Enter dates in the format yyyy (e.g. 1975) or for date spans, yyyy-yyyy (e.g. 1800-1850). "Type of material" may be photographs, diaries, letters, interviews, scrapbooks, etc. "Any" will search for the term anywhere in the finding aid. If using more than one term, select AND to find collections with both terms; select OR to find collections with any one of the terms. To search on a partial match, use an asterisk. For example, fred* will match fred, fredegar, frederic, frederick, fredericka, etc. Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Avenue Syracuse NY 13244 315.443.2093 f: 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu library.syr.edu Quick Links Accessibility Policies Syracuse University Press University Archives University Records Management Your Accounts Copyright © 2017 Syracuse University Libraries. All Rights Reserved.