Columbia University Libraries Columbia University » Home Libraries » Home Columbia Libraries Locations Columbia Archival Collections Portal CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog Help Contact Us Ask a Librarian Library Hours Maps and Locations Rare Book & Manuscript Library Archival Collections Portal > Rare Book & Manuscript Library > John Yardley Collection of materials related to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC, 1700-1900 John Yardley Collection of materials related to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC, 1700-1900 Table of Contents Summary Description Using the Collection About the Finding Aid / Processing Information Subject Headings History / Biographical Note Summary Information At a Glance Call No.: MS#1643 Bib ID 10101500 View CLIO record Creator(s) Yardley, John H., 1945-2006 Title John Yardley Collection of materials related to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC, 1700-1900 Physical Description 84.5 linear feet (64 record cartons, 2 document boxes; 1 flat box; 1 smaller document box) Language(s) English , Dutch; Flemish . Access You will need to make an appointment in advance to use this collection material in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library reading room. You can schedule an appointment once you've submitted your request through your Special Collections Research Account. Material is unprocessed. Please contact rbml@columbia.edu for more information. This collection is located on-site. You will need to request this material at least three business days in advance to use the collection in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library reading room. Description Summary This collection consists of primary source material. Using the Collection Rare Book and Manuscript Library Restrictions on Access You will need to make an appointment in advance to use this collection material in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library reading room. You can schedule an appointment once you've submitted your request through your Special Collections Research Account. Material is unprocessed. Please contact rbml@columbia.edu for more information. This collection is located on-site. You will need to request this material at least three business days in advance to use the collection in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library reading room. Terms Governing Use and Reproduction Single photocopies may be made for research purposes. The RBML maintains ownership of the physical material only. Copyright remains with the creator and his/her heirs. The responsibility to secure copyright permission rests with the patron. Preferred Citation Identification of specific item; Date (if known); John H. Yardley Collection of Source Materials Realting to the Dutch Reformed Church of NYC; Box and Folder; Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Columbia University Library. Accrual No additions are expected Materials may have been added to the collection since this finding aid was prepared. Contact rbml@columbia.edu for more information. Immediate Source of Acquisition Source of acquisition--Bernice Gordon. Method of acquisition--Gift; Date of acquisition--11/10/2012. About the Finding Aid / Processing Information Columbia University Libraries, Rare Book and Manuscript Library Processing Information Collection-level record describing unprocessed material made public in summer 2018 as part of the Hidden Collections initiative. Papers processed [NAME] [DATE]. Subject Headings The subject headings listed below are found in this collection. Links below allow searches at Columbia University through the Archival Collections Portal and through CLIO, the catalog for Columbia University Libraries, as well as ArchiveGRID, a catalog that allows users to search the holdings of multiple research libraries and archives. All links open new windows. Subject Heading "CUL Archives:" "Portal" "CUL Collections:" "CLIO" "Nat'l / Int'l Archives:" "ArchivedGRID" Dutch Reformed Church of New York City Portal CLIO ArchiveGRID Yardley, John H., 1945-2006 Portal CLIO ArchiveGRID History / Biographical Note Biographical / Historical The first Church organized in New Netherlands was the Reformed Dutch Church of New Amsterdam (New York City). The Church was formed in 1628, but baptismal and marriage records start in 1639. As the Dutch spread out in their settlements, new churches sprang up on Long Island, Staten Island, and along areas of the Hudson River Valley.