Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Information for Parents COVID-19 updates in the College of Fine Arts COVID-19 updates for UT Austin The parents and families of our students are an important part of our College of Fine Arts community. Let us help you find the information you need to help your student thrive. Table of Contents Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Health & Safety Admissions & New Students Scholarships & Financial Aid Graduation & Commencement Careers & Outcomes Additional Resources UT FAMILY & VISITOR RESOURCES Fine Arts Parents Council Texas Parents Association Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, is a federal law that pertains to the release of and access to educational records. It applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the US Department of Education. You can learn more at www.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco. FERPA Questions for Parents Back to Top Health & Safety Safety & Security Find resources, connect with the University Police Department (UTPD), and learn about the Be Safe safety education campaign. Learn about campus emergency communication tools, including the siren system and emergency website. You may also wish to join Safe Horns and read an update on safety specific to the college. Safety & Security Counseling CARE (Counselors in Academic Residence) is a program of the Counseling and Mental Health Center(CMHC) that places a counselor onsite in the College of Fine Arts. Your student is welcome to drop by the CARE Counselor's office in DFA 1.204B. CARE services are confidential. COFA Care Counselor Health Services At University Health Services, your son or daughter will receive the highest quality care in a supportive environment that focuses on the needs of college students. You can expect everything from UHS that you get from your family doctor... and more. Healthy Horns Parents Back to Top Admissions & New Students Please see the Admissions section of this website for application information, which includes information about scholarships and visiting opportunities. Find an extensive list of resources for current students on this website. Read the welcome letter for freshman families from the Director of Texas Parents. Back to Top Scholarships & Financial Aid Most awards from the College of Fine Arts do not require additional applications. All applicants who complete our application requirements by the deadline for their program are considered for artistic merit awards from the College of Fine Arts. For information about admission procedures and deadlines, the student should contact the academic unit of interest. All applicants are encouraged to complete the scholarships portion of ApplyTexas. University Resources Graduate School Finances Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Department of Art and Art History Art and Art History Undergraduates M.F.A. in Studio Art M.A. in Art History PhD in Art History M.A. in Art Education Butler School of Music Butler School of Music Financial Aid School of Design and Creative Technologies School of Design and Creative Technologies Tuition & Scholarships Department of Theatre and Dance Theatre & Dance Undergraduates Theatre & Dance Graduates Back to Top Graduation & Commencement When the time comes, we hope you will join us to celebrate this significant milestone! Info for Graduating Students Back to Top Careers & Outcomes Our Fine Arts Career Services team of dedicated advisors work extensively with students to prepare them for careers in the arts industry. After graduation our team remains accessible to alumni of the college for life. We are proud to celebrate our alumni who span the globe and include renowned artists, actors, musicians, illustrators, directors, curators, performers, designers and more. Back to Top Additional Resources Resources for all Undergraduate Families Academic Calendars COFA Academic Deadlines Maps, Directions & Parking COFA Graduation & Commencement Back to Top Back to top Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader