Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Information for Current Students COVID-19 updates in the College of Fine Arts COVID-19 updates for UT Austin Looking for resources for current College of Fine Arts students? Whether you aspire to become a professional artist, fine arts educator, performer, designer or scholar, we're here to help you thrive. Table of Contents Department and School Resources Scholarships & Financial Aid Honors Day Community & Social Networks Discounted Student Tickets Additional Student Resources Advising, registration, academic deadlines, graduation and much more. Fine Arts Student Affairs Career advising, integrated advising bars, internship and job searching, funding opportunities, internship and job boards and much more. Fine Arts Career Services Department & School Student Portals Department of Art and Art History Resources for current students, including forms and policies for both graduate and undergraduate students in the Department of Art and Art History. Art & Art History Students Butler School of Music This website explains daily business policies and procedures for faculty, staff and students at the Butler School of Music. Music Students Department of Theatre and Dance Resources for undergraduates, graduate students and non-majors in the Department of Theatre and Dance. Theatre & Dance Students School of Design and Creative Technologies Resources, advising and opportunities for students in the School of Design and Creative Technologies. Design & Creative Tech Students Back to Top Scholarships & Financial Aid Each year, departments award merit-based scholarships to selected continuing students based on their performance in coursework, personal creative growth, excellent citizenship in the department, and strong academic standing. In most cases, there is no application for these scholarships*; students will be informed if they have been selected for one of these awards. University Resources Graduate School Finances Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Department of Art and Art History Art and Art History Undergraduates M.F.A. in Studio Art M.A. in Art History PhD in Art History M.A. in Art Education Butler School of Music Butler School of Music Financial Aid School of Design and Creative Technologies School of Design and Creative Technologies Tuition & Scholarships Department of Theatre and Dance Theatre & Dance Undergraduates Theatre & Dance Graduates * Current Theatre and Dance undergraduate students should complete the Department of Theatre and Dance application along with all subsequent steps, such as an audition or interview if required. This application is available each spring term. Back to Top Honors Day 2022 The College of Fine Arts is proud to announce our 2022 Honors Day scholar award recipients. This year, the college boasted of 190 scholars across all departments. The ceremony at the Frank Erwin Center will be webcast via the Honors Day website starting at 2 p.m. on Saturday, April 9. (A recording will be available the week of April 11th at the same link.) Following the university-wide ceremony, the Office of Student Affairs will host an invite-only reception for CoFA honorees and their guests. Full List of CoFA Distinguished College Scholars and College Scholars Honors Day Main Site Back to Top Community and Social Networks Everyday we celebrate achievements within our exciting and diverse community of the entire college. Help us celebrate your work by using the hash tag #WeAreCOFA on social networks and join, follow or subscribe to our social network groups and organizations, including the Fine Arts Student Council. Find even more ways to get involved with campus life student involvement. Back to Top Tickets Texas Performing Arts Texas Performing Arts offers $10 student tickets to all Essential Series performances (doesn't include Broadway or other non-fine arts touring shows) on a first-come, first-served basis. Or purchase the Bass Pass for a one-time $50 fee and gain access to $10 Broadway, concert, and comedy tickets, as well as other great benefits throughout the year! Texas Performing Arts student tickets Butler School of Music Complementary Tickets All University of Texas at Austin students are allowed a maximum of one free ticket with a valid UT I.D. card to every ticketed performance at the Butler School! Music Comp Tickets Theatre and Dance Student Discount Package Current University of Texas at Austin students save up to 45% with student discount packages. Theatre and Dance student tickets Back to Top Resources College of Fine Arts Student Affairs Resource List Graduate School Services and Resources List MyUT Home (login required) Back to Top Back to top Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader