Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Facilities With its wide breadth of disciplines, the College of Fine Arts includes many performance spaces, studios, maker spaces, classrooms and more to support our curricular needs. Doty Fine Arts (DFA) Building The Doty Fine Arts building houses the Dean’s administrative offices (second floor), Admissions (first floor), Student Affairs (first floor), Career Services (first floor), the college’s CARE Counselor office (first floor), and the newly-renovated student lounge now known as the Kendra Scott Center (first floor). Offices for the Art History division are located on the second floor, and the Fine Arts Library is located on the third and fifth floor of the building. Classrooms, studios and administrative offices for the School of Design and Creative Technologies are located on the fourth floor. The Foundry makerspace is located inside the Fine Arts Library on the third floor. Art (ART) Building The Art Building includes the Visual Art Center, studios and classrooms, computer and production labs, faculty offices, administrative offices for the Department of Art and Art History, the Mesoamerica Center and more. Some faculty offices for the Department of Design are located in ART. Jessen Auditorium in Homer Rainey Hall (HRH) Jessen Auditorium is located in HRH 2.104 and offers a 350-seat performance space for recitals and more. Lab Theatre (LTH) The Lab Theatre includes a 109-seat theatre for students to mount their own productions. Music and Recital Hall (MRH) Building The Music and Recital Hall serves as the home to the Butler School of Music and includes Bates Recital Hall, as well as numerous classroom, rehearsal and practice rooms and offices for the Longhorn Band. Performing Arts Center (PAC) The Performing Arts Center building includes the 2,900-seat Bass Concert Hall, the McCullough Theatre, administrative offices for Texas Performing Arts, as well as scenic shops, costume shops and classroom and studio space. Winship (WIN) Building Winship is home to the Department of Theatre and Dance and includes the Payne Theatre, the Brockett Theatre and numerous classrooms, rehearsal spaces and studio spaces. Learn more about labs and studios in the Department of Art and Art History Learn more about facilities in the Department of Theatre and Dance. Learn more about facilities in the School of Design and Creative Technologies Back to top All Degrees by Area of Study Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader