Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Programs and Research Centers in the College of Fine Arts The College of Fine Arts and its departments and units offer many ways for students, faculty and the public to engage with the arts. Explore how you can get involved in our many programs and research centers. College of Fine Arts Department of Art and Art History Butler School of Music Department of Theatre and Dance School of Design and Creative Technologies Texas Performing Arts Landmarks College of Fine Arts Portfolio in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship The Portfolio in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship is a jointly sponsored certification program through the College of Fine Arts and LBJ School of Public Affairs that provides theoretical and practical training of the management and governance of arts and cultural organizations. LEARN MORE UTeach Fine Arts UTeach Fine Arts prepares future arts educators in art, music, theatre and dance in a context that emphasizes community engagement, cultural diversity, technology and curricular innovation. LEARN MORE Center for Creative Entrepreneurship The College of Fine Arts' Center for Creative Entrepreneurship was created to empower our students with the mindset, skillset and the practice necessary to transform your passions into a sustainable business or career. The center offers lectures, panels, workshops and classes. LEARN MORE Kendra Scott Women's Entrepreneurial Leadership (WEL) Institute The Kendra Scott Women’s Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute (KS WEL Institute) at The University of Texas at Austin will strengthen the next generation of courageous, creative female leaders who will change the world — in business and beyond. LEARN MORE Fine Arts Diversity Committee The Fine Arts Diversity Committee is a partnership between the college and UT’s Division of Diversity and Community Engagement to create and implement a comprehensive diversity strategic plan. LEARN MORE Back to Top Department of Art and Art History Center for Latin American Visual Studies The Center for Latin American Visual Studies (CLAVIS) works to advance the understanding of modern and contemporary art in the Americas and aims to build bridges that allow for a horizontal exchange of ideas, resources and methods with other institutes in Latin America, the United States, Europe and other parts of the world. LEARN MORE Center for the Study of Ancient Italy The Center for the Study of Ancient Italy (CSAI) promotes interdisciplinary education and research in the archaeology and visual culture of ancient Italy from the Bronze Age through the fifth century C.E. LEARN MORE The Mesoamerica Center The Mesoamerica Center facilitates knowledge, learning and understanding about the ancient indigenous cultures and peoples of what is now Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras and El Salvador with a focus on the arts, language and archeology. The center oversees The Mesoamerica Meetings and Casa Herrera, a research and teaching facility in Guatemala. LEARN MORE Summer ST.ART Summer ST.ART offers Studio Art summer programs for high school students. Participants learn new skills, expand ideas, build their portfolio, work collaboratively among peers, and explore Austin’s vibrant creative community. LEARN MORE Visual Arts Center The Visual Arts Center (VAC) is a gallery space that exhibits new work from established national and international artists as well as the work of students just entering into their professional artistic careers. The VAC provides artists with a platform to experiment, gives students the opportunity to curate, exhibit, and interact with artists from around the world, and sparks conversations around the intersections of art and contemporary society. LEARN MORE St. Elmo Arts Residency The St. Elmo Arts Residency is a joint project of the Department of Art and Art History and the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center that offers one fellowship each academic year to a newly minted M.F.A. artist in painting, drawing, print, photo, sculpture or multimedia. LEARN MORE Center Space Project Center Space Project (CSP) is a student-run curatorial collective that provides opportunities to students interested in participating in a larger artistic community comprised of undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and local arts professionals. Members collaborate on projects that take place on and off campus, from exhibitions to events to art-centered excursions around Texas. LEARN MORE Center for the Study of Modernism The Center for the Study of Modernism serves as an umbrella to focus and augment graduate study in the art of the modern period, from the eighteenth century to the present. Back to Top Butler School of Music Midday Music Series Held at noon on the last Tuesday of each month, the Midday Music Series is a collaboration between the Butler School of Music and the Blanton Museum of Art that features performances by faculty and student musicians who discuss how the music relates to the visual arts. Butler Opera Center The Sarah and Ernest Butler Opera Center presents fully produced, diverse productions during the academic year and provides performance training and background for singers, opera directors and opera coaches interested in professional and educational careers. LEARN MORE Center for American Music The Center for American Music advances the teaching, scholarship and performance of American music from all traditions, including concert, folk and popular music. LEARN MORE Center for Music Learning The Center for Music Learning investigates the processes of human skill development, integrating the results of systematic research from multiple disciplines with best practices in music and music pedagogy. LEARN MORE Longhorn Band The Longhorn Band is a year-round program offered as a course by the Butler School of Music. Registration in this course is open to any student of the various academic disciplines provided at The University of Texas at Austin. LEARN MORE Longhorn Music Camp The Longhorn Music Camp offers programs for singers and instrumentalists at both the middle and high school levels, and seeks to create a positive musical and social environment that provides students the opportunity to learn from some of the finest music educators from across the state. LEARN MORE Piano Project The Piano Project offers piano lessons taught by Butler School of Music graduate and undergraduate students to students ages 6 through high school, and includes one individual 30-minute lesson and one group 30-minute theory lesson per week. LEARN MORE String Project Heralded by musicians and educators throughout the world as one of the finest programs for the training of teachers and the development of young talent, the String Project is sponsored by the Butler School of Music and partially sponsored by the Junior League of Austin. LEARN MORE Back to Top Department of Theatre and Dance American Ballet Theatre Summer Intensive The American Ballet Theatre Summer Intensive program is a four-week session, taught by faculty from American Ballet Theatre and the University of Texas Department of Theatre and Dance. It is held in July and geared toward intermediate/advanced dancers age 12–18. LEARN MORE The Oscar G. Brockett Center for Theatre History and Criticism The Oscar G. Brockett Center for Theatre History and Criticism promotes excellence in the study of theatre history by recognizing the highest quality scholarship and pedagogy in the field and with a focus on scholarship, education and arts/community. LEARN MORE The Cohen New Works Festival The Cohen New Works Festival is a week-long showcase of new work created by UT students, and is the largest festival of its kind. It is run and organized entirely by a committee of graduate and undergraduate students, with the support of faculty co-producers. LEARN MORE Drama for Schools Drama for Schools (DFS) is program that creates partnerships between the university and school districts, and collaborates with K–12 educators in exploring drama-based instruction methods to increase teacher efficacy and student engagement across the curriculum. LEARN MORE Summer Institute: Activating Learning through the Arts The Summer Institute is a five-day intensive arts integration training program for educators and working professionals to explore the power of learning in and through the arts by offering a research-based comprehensive pedagogical exploration and immersion training experience in the use of drama-based instruction across the curriculum. LEARN MORE Back to Top School of Design and Creative Technologies Center for Integrated Design The Center for Integrated Design connects people from diverse disciplines through collective, human-centered design thinking and allows all UT students the opportunity to study design methodology and apply it in creative and entrepreneurial scenarios. LEARN MORE Design Institute for Health The Design Institute for Health is a first-of-its-kind initiative dedicated to applying a creative design-based approach to the nation’s health care challenges—and rapidly integrating that perspective into medical education and community health programs. LEARN MORE UT Game Development and Design Program The University of Texas Game Development and Design Program is a partnership between the Department of Arts and Entertainment Technologies and the Department of Computer Science and is intended for undergraduates with career interests in the gaming industry. LEARN MORE Executive and Extended Education Executive and Extended Education in the School of Design and Creative Technologies extends world-class design thinking courses, trainings and workshops for businesses, nonprofits, K-12 and higher education institutions, as well as individual learners. LEARN MORE Back to Top Texas Performing Arts Student Engagement Texas Performing Arts is dedicated to enriching the experience of university students through education, performance and collaboration and employs more than 100 students from across campus to work in partnership with our professional staff in every department from accounting to production. LEARN MORE Campus and Community Engagement We bring together The University of Texas at Austin campus and the Central Texas community for a variety of free events to bring context to the performing arts experience, including pre-performance lectures, post-performance talkbacks, brown-bag lunch discussions with artists, master classes for students and more. LEARN MORE For Youth Educators Our youth education program focuses on grades 7–12 and includes free youth performances with corresponding standards-related curriculum and discounted or complimentary tickets to fine arts performances. LEARN MORE Back to Top Landmarks Landmarks Docents Landmarks Docents lead tours of the public art collection and build awareness about modern and contemporary art, ensuring all visitors have an enjoyable and enriching experience. LEARN MORE Landmarks Preservation Guild The Landmarks Preservation Guild maintains the works of art in the collection and keeps our campus a beautiful and engaging place. Volunteers learn and apply basic conservation skills to works of art so they may be enjoyed by future generations. LEARN MORE Back to Top Back to top All Degrees by Area of Study Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader