Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Alumni News Filter Alumni Spotlights Department or School Department of Art & Art History Butler School of Music Department of Theatre & Dance School of Design & Creative Technologies Degree B.A. (Bachelor of Arts) B.F.A (Bachelor of Fine Arts) B.M. (Bachelor of Music) B.S. (Bachelor of Science) M.A. (Master of Arts) M.F.A. (Master of Fine Arts) M.M. (Master of Music) D.M.A. (Doctor of Musical Arts) Ph.D. (Doctor of Philosophy) A.D. (Artist Diploma) Year of Graduation Natacha Poggio earns Fulbright Scholar Award Monday, May 23, 2022 | University of Houston Downtown With her Fulbright, Poggio (M.F.A., Design, 2006) will head to Guayaquil, Ecuador — a port city known as a gateway to the Galapagos Islands — where she will be working with students at the Universidad de las Artes. Her dream is to empower students and community members to become informed environmental advocates. Lydia Villarreal found Mariachi Orgullo, the first mariachi program in Richardson ISD Monday, May 23, 2022 | Twitter Villarreal (B.M., Music and Human Learning, 2016; M.M., Music Education, 2018), Orchestra Director at Berkner High School in Richardson, TX, started planning the program in the fall of 2021 and began the program in Spring 2022. During this first semester, Mariachi Orgullo received a first division rating at the Grand Prairie Mariachi Festival and has performed at various events in the community. The incredible interest from students and the success of Mariachi Orgullo has led mariachi to be offered as a class for the 2022-2023 school year. Rachel Starbuck, Michael Muelhaupt and Jesse Cline present their art "fitting" at Northern Southern Thursday, May 12, 2022 | Sightlines Magazine Starbuck (M.F.A., Studio Art, 2017) and Muelhaupt (M.F.A., Studio Art, 2017) are sculptors, materials experts, and educators. Cline (M.F.A., Design, 2016) practices and teaches design. They exhibit furniture, functional objects and art objects. Lance Letscher presents his work "Bird & Fishes" at Stephen L. Clark Gallery Thursday, May 12, 2022 | Sightlines Magazine Letscher (B.F.A., Studio Art, 1985; M.F.A., Studio Art, 1989) is much regarded for his meticulously constructed collages. He sources material from a range of antique papers, discarded notebooks, magazines, photographs, schoolbooks, vintage technical publications, postcards, and record covers Kimberley Bellflower’s "John Proctor is the Villain" rethinks "The Crucible" Thursday, May 12, 2022 | Washington Post Bellflower's (M.F.A., Playwriting) new play imagines contemporary high school students considering the classic work through the lens of the #MeToo movement. Minghao Tu will join Rattlestick as Van Lier New Voices Fellows Thursday, May 12, 2022 | Broadway World Playwrights' Center also announced Tu (M.F.A., Playwriting, 2020) as a 2022-21 Jerome Fellow. Ariel René Jackson's "A Welcoming Place" will be shown at the Museum of Modern Art Wednesday, April 27, 2022 | MoMA The film premiered at Women & Their Work in January 2022. MoMA will present the video in New York along with other single-channel works by Jackson (M.F.A., Studio Art, 2017), Bentonville Forecast: In the Square (2019) and Descendance (2021). Following a two-year postponement, director Hannah Wolf (M.F.A., Theatre, 2018) reflects on the uncommon circumstances and connections she found when working on Perseverance Theatre's upcoming production of "Fun Home" Wednesday, April 27, 2022 | Juneau Empire Fun Home will run from April 22 to May 8, 2022. The production also features scenic design by Iman Corbani (M.F.A. 2019) Luis Rodriguez appointed Director of Artistic Operations for Plano Symphony Orchestra in Plano, TX Wednesday, April 27, 2022 Rodriguez (B.M., Voice and Opera, 2010) is also the Music Director for Arapaho United Methodist Church in Richardson, TX. The world premiere of Dwight Bigler's (D.M.A., Conducting, 2006) new composition for choir and orchestra, "Mosaic for Earth," took place at Virginia Tech Moss Arts Center Wednesday, April 27, 2022 The recording will be released on the Tonsehen label in both audio and video formats. "Mosaic for Earth" weaves together music, literature, visual arts, and science into a celebration of nature and exploration of humanity's impact on it. Thomas Dempster appointed to Associate Dean for Arts and Humanities at the Arkansas School for Mathematics, Sciences, and the Arts (ASMSA) Wednesday, April 27, 2022 Dempster (M.M., Composition, 2004; D.M.A, 2010) previously founded the music program at ASMSA in 2018 and has since brought the program to regional recognition and acclaim for its innovative curriculum and student achievements. He also had a work premiered by members of the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra at an ASO River Rhapsodies chamber concert. The work, Canticle of Saint Frances Xavier Cabrini, premiered on March 1, 2022 at the Bill Clinton Presidential Library in Little Rock, AR. The piece was commissioned by the Arkansas Symphony and its principal bassoonist. Oktavea LaToi's (B.A., Theatre, 2017) performance piece "I see you, you're seen" on stage at the VORTEX Theatre Wednesday, April 27, 2022 | The Vortex Kamyle Smith (B.A., Theatre and Dance, 2017) serves as assistant stage manager and Rachel Atkinson (M.F.A., Theatre, 2013) serves as scenic designer. Marta Sanchez celebrates the 30th year of Cascarones Por La Vida, a grassroots organization that has created handprinted confetti filled eggs with the community to assist families affected by HIV/AIDS Wednesday, April 27, 2022 | NBC Philadelphia Sanchez (B.F.A., 1981) also shares the art and philanthropy through the folkloric Mexican Cascarones offers an example of how important art is to the fabric of our society. Carrie Hawkins collaborates with Dillard's on spring fashion Friday, April 8, 2022 | Midland Reporter-Telegram For the Dillard’s collaboration, Hawkins (B.F.A., Design, 2010) and her daughters took photos in the dress designs at the Museum of the Southwest with local photographer Helen Byrd Sledge. She didn’t realize that those pictures would be used for the marketing campaign. Those photos are now up at Dillard’s across the country, showcasing a Midland space and designer. Alumni Rachael Starbuck (M.F.A., Studio Art, 2017) and Michael Muelhaupt (M.F.A., Studio Art, 2017) featured in group exhibition at Northern–Southern gallery Friday, April 8, 2022 | Northern-Southern Claudia Chapa will serve as the first curator for the Hispanic and Latinx program at Austin Opera Thursday, April 7, 2022 | Austin 360 With a multimillion-dollar infusion, Austin Opera is expanding its Spanish-language programming. Local philanthropists Sarah and Ernest Butler have given the fine arts company $3.3 million. One of Chapa's (Vocal Performance) responsibilities in her role will be to make sure Hispanic and Latinx programming is represented in all of Austin Opera's platforms, according to the company, which include performances at the Long Center for the Performing Arts and Concerts at the Consulate, a series Chapa currently curates that is produced with the Consulate General of Mexico. "¡Printing the Revolution!" awarded 2022 ALAA-Thoma Foundation Exhibition Catalogue Award Tuesday, March 29, 2022 | Department of Art and Art History ¡Printing the Revolution! The Rise and Impact of Chicano Graphics, 1965 to Now, an exhibition catalogue for the Smithsonian American Art Museum 2021 exhibition of the same name, was organized by E. Carmen Ramos, acting chief curator and curator of Latinx art at the Smithsonian, alongside Claudia Zapata, curatorial assistant for Latinx art and UT Art History alum (B.A., 2005; M.A., 2009). The catalogue includes contributions from E. Carmen Ramos, Tatiana Reinoza (UT Art History MA, 2009; PhD, 2016), Terezita Romo, and Claudia E. Zapata. Three UT alumni selected for Desert Door's 2022 Artist Residents Tuesday, March 29, 2022 | Big Medium Elizabeth Hudson (Art History, 2016), Jieun Beth (M.F.A, Studio Art, 2013) and Jesus Treviño (M.F.A., Painting/Drawing, 2022) will enjoy a one-week stay on the Desert Door ranch in West Texas. This residency includes an artist stipend of $1,000 for each artist. During their residency, Artists are encouraged to draw inspiration from the raw West Texas landscape and begin creating new work. Blanton Museum of Art announces lineup for upcoming “SoundSpace,” led by Butler School alum Tuesday, March 29, 2022 | Glasstire For the event, Steve Parker (DMA, Music, 2012), who is the program’s Artistic Director, selected eight local and national artists and musicians to respond to and converse with artworks in the Blanton’s collection. Alumnus Michael J. Love (M.F.A., Theatre, 2020) is among the selected eight artists. Dr. Lea Cline (M.A., Art History, 2003; Ph.D., Art History, 2013) featured in Focus on Fulbright: Spring 2022 International Seminar Series Tuesday, March 29, 2022 | Illinois State Load more Back to top Share your alumni news! All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Social Media Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader