Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Information for Alumni COVID-19 updates in the College of Fine Arts COVID-19 updates for UT Austin Our alumni are an important part of the College of Fine Arts community. Please stay in touch by updating your contact information and sending us your news on the forms below. If you're nearby, stop by to say hello, and while you're here, support current students by coming to one of their many performances, exhibitions and events. Table of Contents Get Involved with the College Texas Exes Strategic National Arts Alumni Project Career Services for Alumni Alumni Department Portals Submit Your News & Send us Your Contact Information Become a Supporter Read Alumni News Get Involved with the College Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Join our LinkedIn Alumni Group! Update your contact information to receive our monthly alumni e-newsletter. Visit the Events page to learn about upcoming exhibitions and performances. Attending these events is a great way to stay connected, show your support for our current students, and, of course, enjoy great art! Mentor or speak to current students, share an internship or employment opportunity with Fine Arts Career Services. Make a gift to The Doty Society, named in honor of our first dean, E. William Doty, and support student scholarships. Back to Top Get Involved with Texas Exes The Texas Exes offers a variety of networking and events for UT Austin graduates, including 140 local chapters. The Texas Exes Alumni Directory is a way for all grads to update and access information about themselves and fellow Longhorns. You do not need to be a member of the Texas Exes, but you do need to register. Back to Top Strategic National Arts Alumni Project The Strategic National Arts Alumni Project (SNAAP) is a one-of-a-kind survey that explores the lives of arts alumni nationwide. The results help arts institutions around the country better prepare their students for success. Thank you to everyone who participated in SNAAP's 2015 survey! Your responses help us understand how your education shaped your experience and how you've used what you learned, both in your work and in your life. We look forward to sharing the results with you soon. You can take a look at some of the highlights here. Back to Top Career Services for Alumni Fine Arts Career Services provides unlimited, free career coaching to alumni of the College of Fine Arts. Learn more about setting up a meeting here. Additionally, Texas Career Engagement at the University of Texas at Austin maintains active online resources that support the needs of both students and alumni. Alumni can access job boards, interview tools and resources. Back to Top Alumni Department Portals Department of Art and Art History The Department of Art and Art History values alumni as an important resource for our current students, essential members of our community, and leaders in the fields of art, design, art education, and art history. We want to know about all of our alumni’s accomplishments and invite you keep in touch with us. Art & Art History Alumni Butler School of Music The Butler School of Music is proud of our alumni. We encourage you to stay connected with us! Music Alumni Department of Theatre and Dance We are proud of our alumni—our Longhorn family—a collection of vibrant actors, writers, scholars, educators, designers, entrepreneurs and community leaders. They have been recognized with prestigious awards, including Academy Awards, Emmy Awards, Tony Awards and the Pulitzer Prize in Drama. Theatre & Dance Alumni Back to Top Share and Connect We're always eager to hear from you and, in turn, to keep you informed of events and news in the College. Please fill out the information below to help us celebrate your news and stay connected! Update Your Contact Information If you do not see the above form due to ad blockers or other browser issues, please access the form at: https://utexas.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_3x8oCrds6nJcXKR&dept=cofa Send us Your News If you do not see the above form due to ad blockers or other browser issues, please access the form at: https://utexas.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_1zsyl9lDeSoiHqJ&dept=cofa Back to Top Back to top Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader