Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Dean's Welcome Welcome to the College of Fine Arts. The College of Fine Arts is the home of the arts at The University of Texas at Austin, the flagship public university for the State of Texas. We are a creative community of faculty, staff, students and art lovers and patrons devoted to teaching and learning, research and practice in the visual arts, music, theatre, dance, design and arts education. We are also one of the leading arts presenters and exhibition centers in the City of Austin and Central Texas, including our nationally renowned Texas Performing Arts, our impressively vast Landmarks public art collection and our contemporary art venue, the Visual Arts Center. Our faculty, staff, students and patrons alike value the arts as foundational to our society and as indispensable platforms and tools for making sense of the deepest and most significant aspects of our lives. We are also expansive in our understanding of creativity as crucial to innovation in science, health and business. We are committed connoisseurs of the histories that have shaped the artistic traditions and repertoires from which our disciplines have emerged. We are also spirited creators looking for ways to tell new stories and to transform our surroundings through the development of new technologies or novel applications of old ones. We engage with new perspectives and embrace historically unattended ones in our rigorous advancement of new discovery in research about the past, present and future of the arts and design across the globe. Whether you are coming to us to advance your own artistry and research or to enjoy the work of our impressive faculty, students and guest artists, we welcome you into our community of creative thinkers and doers. Our university’s motto is “What starts here changes the world.” I cannot think of a more vivid example of this generous ambition and bold ethical stance than the transformative work the arts advance in imagining and making worlds in our studios, stages, exhibition spaces and designed environments (physical as much as virtual). We imagine the world anew with every creative and critical gesture we advance, and we invite you to join us in this adventurous journey to see the world through the rigor and wonderment of the arts. Welcome! Ramón H. Rivera-Servera, Dean of the College of Fine Arts Dean Rivera-Servera's Bio Back to top Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader