Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Minor in Arts Management and Administration Behind every great performance or art exhibition is a team collaborating with artists to realize a vision. Arts administrators help make that artistic magic happen. If you have a passion for the arts and want a profession that supports artistic endeavors and ensures the public has access to art, music, theatre, dance, performance and more, consider arts management and administration. The Minor in Arts Management and Administration (MAMA) in the College of Fine Arts at The University of Texas at Austin is open to students in any degree program at the university enrolled in the 2016-18 and all subsequent degree catalogs. Through the minor, students broaden their understanding of careers in the commercial, nonprofit and public arts sectors, develop skills critical for arts managers in all arts disciplines and build career contacts through an internship experience. Examples of Jobs in Arts Management and Administration Producer for the Broadway Stage Arts Festival Director Federal, State, or City Arts Administrator Concert Hall Director Chief Financial Officer for an Arts Institution Independent Producer/Promoter Arts Education Director Public Arts Administrator Self-Producing Artist Fundraiser for an Arts Organization Arts Marketing Director City Cultural Planner Touring Production Manager Operations Manager for an Arts Organization Artistic Director/Cultural Programmer Artist Manager How to apply to the Minor in Arts Management and Administration Students must have a UT GPA of 2.5 or above and completed 30 undergraduate credit hours to declare the minor. View 16-18/18-20 University Catalog minor requirements and and additional information here. View 20-22 University Catalog minor requirements and additional information here. You can apply for the minor via UT’s minor and certificate application portal here. A student's particular catalog typically corresponds to the year you first attended UT Austin. For example, current first-years are in the 20-22 degree catalog. For a complete list of requirements and eligible courses for the Minor in Arts Management, click here: mama_approved_courses.pdf mama_approved_courses.pdf (72kb) Relative path for linking on this site: /sites/files/cofa/mama_approved_courses.pdf Absolute path for linking on other sites: https://finearts.utexas.edu/sites/files/cofa/mama_approved_courses.pdf . Students interested in entering the the MAMA minor program may contact Senior Advisor Malia LiVolsi at malia.livolsi@austin.utexas.edu. Fall 2022 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 170 Longhorn Startup Seminar (20605) Note: This course is available to MAMA students through this section, but the course is maintained in a different college. INSTRUCTOR: Joshua Baer WHEN: TTH 6:00PM - 8:00PM WHERE: GDC 2.216 Focus on skill development and mentoring in start-up formation, technology development, market validation, marketing, sales, operations, human resources, program management, and finance. Includes discussion of intellectual property, social issues in design, as well as ethical and safety considerations. Emphasis on written and oral presentation of start-up activities. FA 171 Inside the Music Industry (20610) INSTRUCTOR: Steve Berman and Frances Berman WHEN: TTH 5:00PM-6:30PM, 9/20-10/20 WHERE: RLP 1.108 Hands on introduction to the business of music, with an emphasis on artist development, management, marketing and media as taught by Steve Berman (Vice Chairman, Interscope/Geffen/A&M Records) and Frances Berman (Butler School of Music Fine Arts Alumni). This course will give students a hands-on introduction to the music business through in- class roundtables with working professionals and case-study assignments based on actual, real- time marketing and promotion problems facing working artists and professionals in the music business. The course will also feature several interactions surrounding the 2022 Austin City Limits Music Festival. *Note: FA 171 is a one-hour elective in the the Minor in Arts Management and Administration program. If you are wondering how this course can correspond to your official MAMA minor, please contact Senior Advisor Malia LiVolsi at malia.livolsi@austin.utexas.edu. FA 171 Legal Aspects of the Arts and Creative Industries Ecosystem (20615) INSTRUCTOR: Sammetria Goodson WHEN: M 4:00PM-7:00PM, the second 5 weeks of the semester (9/26-10/24) WHERE: Hybrid, some classes online only, some in DFA 3.218 This class, taught by renowned Arts Attorney Sammetria Goodson, will provide an overview of key legal issues encountered by professionals as they navigate the arts and creative industries ecosystem. Students from all fine arts and design disciplines will benefit from learning about contracts, licensing, artists’ rights, intellectual property and best practices for protecting the fruits of their creativity. Through a combination of case studies, experiential exercises, and lectures, this class will equip students with the information and approaches necessary to support sustainable art practices and professional endeavors. Students are encouraged to think about their artistic disciplines in the context of market participation, with the goal of dismantling the “starving artist” mindset. *Note: FA 171 is a one-hour elective in the the Minor in Arts Management and Administration program. If you are wondering how this course can correspond to your official MAMA minor, please contact Senior Advisor Malia LiVolsi at malia.livolsi@austin.utexas.edu. FA 306 Career Development in the Arts (20564) INSTRUCTOR: Nathan Langfitt WHEN: TTH 5:00PM - 6:30PM WHERE: RLP 0.118 Headquartered in Fine Arts Career Services, this course helps students examine career exploration, professional documents (resumes and cover letters), networking, job and internship search, and career attainment. Create a career plan and perform specific assignments exploring career possibilities that are congruent with personal values, interests, personality, and skills. FA 340/640/940 Fine Arts Internship – WB (20570) INSTRUCTOR: Isabel Tweraser WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Headquartered in Fine Arts Career Services, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. FA 346 Inside the Visual and Performing Arts of NYC (20590) Note: This course is only available to students enrolled in the UTNY program. INSTRUCTOR: TBA WHEN: W 6:00PM - 9:00PM WHERE: UTNY HQ From Broadway to Brooklyn and far beyond, New York City has a long, evolutionary, and singular presence in the visual and performing arts as one of the greatest cultural capitals of the western world. Through course readings, class discussion, site visits to major art institutions - both historic and those considered more experimental – supplemented by guest speakers, including practicing artists and art scholars, students will gain first-hand and behind-the-scenes knowledge of the depth of art practice and scholarship as defined and shaped by the city itself. FA 355 Women in Entrepreneurship (20595) INSTRUCTOR: Jan Ryan and Kendra Scott WHEN: T 4:00PM-7:00PM WHERE: Kendra Scott HQ This class, co-taught by entrepreneurs / UT faculty members Jan Ryan and Kendra Scott, will immerse students in the core tenets of creating a new business from the point of view of the female founder. The course is designed to provide hands-on, tangible tools to equip and empower female entrepreneurs. Using a “live” case study of Kendra Scott, LLC, and with a blend of lectures, experiential exercises and guest speakers, the class will expose obstacles that women face in contemporary society, with strategies to overcome. Targeted students are those who are interested in the female founder’s unique perspective, are curious about starting their own company, or who simply want to pursue an understanding of the entrepreneurial mindset. The goal of this class is to confront common gender biases and conditioning, and in the context of the entrepreneurial journey provide actionable advice to empower students to see larger possibilities for their career. Classes will be held at the headquarters for Kendra Scott, LLC. *Note: Students are allowed to enroll in this course only after an application process. Applications are available until April 16th and can be found here: https://utexas.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_db4PnJPsN4fb37g FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management (20600) INSTRUCTOR: Josh Straub WHEN: TTH 9:30am - 11:00am WHERE: DFA 4.112 This survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. FA 371 Entrepreneurial LeadHERship for Women (20625) INSTRUCTOR: Lesley Robinson WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: WIN 2.112 The Entrepreneurial LeadHERship Experience will guide student leaders on a journey during which they will discover their personal values, strengths and authentic leadership style through a gender-informed perspective. The experience will leverage a variety of methods (data, frameworks, case studies, reflection opportunities) to equip our leaders with the skills they need to thrive as a leader and entrepreneur through a gender-informed perspective. FA 371 House Management and Audience Relations (20630) Note: This course is available to MAMA students through this section, but the course is maintained in a different college. INSTRUCTOR: Pamela Buchanan WHEN: T 2:00PM - 5:00PM WHERE: BEL 858 Client Services and Venue Management, coupled with Developing and Reaching Audiences, addresses the parallels of environments that require information regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act, conflict management and resolution and communication styles for management that leads to successful interactions and accommodations for the consumer, client or patron. For consumers and clients, with and without disabilities, audience and client relations and interactions can make or break an experience and future engagement with the venue whether it is in entertainment of hospitalization. This course examines the Americans with Disabilities Act as it pertains to all public spaces and ways to prepare and provide accessible events and positive experiences. FA 371/381 Business of Entertainment (20620) INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00PM-8:00PM WHERE: RLP 1.106 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. Spring 2022 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 171 Creative Entrepreneurship-WB (20195) INSTRUCTOR: Cam Houser WHEN: M 4:00PM-7:00PM, the first 5 weeks of the semester (1/24-2/21) WHERE: Virtual Introduction to the creative process of starting a new company around your passion, and exploring the integration of entrepreneurship for creative industries. In this context, a creative entrepreneur is one who serves an industry with a creative output, such as design, arts and entertainment, music, architecture, food, fashion and textiles, theatre, and consumer product goods. This class intends to demystify the entrepreneurial process through hands-on, project-based learning. *Note: FA 171 is a one-hour elective in the the Minor in Arts Management and Administration program. If you are wondering how this course can correspond to your official MAMA minor, please contact the minor program advisor Chris Montes. FA 313C Engaging with the Arts from the Audience (20160) INSTRUCTOR: Tim Rogers WHEN: TTH 2:00pm - 3:30pm WHERE: PAC 3.614 What makes art engaging? How do we actively engage with a performance? What can we learn about the art, and ourselves, from our responses to it? What is art, and who gets to decide? Fine and pop art, tradition and experimentation, the familiar and unfamiliar, international and American creativity provide this course’s foundation. Students will attend performances and exhibitions, interact with artists, and examine core issues associated with the creative process in our increasingly complex global society. The instructors will lead students through visual arts, music, dance, and theatre experiences at Texas Performing Arts and elsewhere on the UT Campus to spark investigation and dialogue. This course asks students to explore what it means to pay rigorous attention to others and themselves in the space of live performance, attending to how performances ask questions of us and about the world. Classroom activities will include discussion before and after each performance; readings about artistic movements and genres; exploration of the behind the scenes aspects of the performing arts; and opportunities to collaboratively prepare, present, and critically respond to other members of the course. Note: Students in this class will need to attend numerous evening and weekend performances throughout the semester. If you have questions about when these will be, please contact Tim Rogers. FA 340/640/940 Fine Arts Internship – WB (20170) INSTRUCTOR: Calder Kamin WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Calder Kamin, Fine Arts Career Services Manager, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management (20195) INSTRUCTOR: Carra Martinez WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 This survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. FA 371 Arts and Community Service (20200) INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Travis Marcum WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: MRH M3.114 The arts have the capacity to facilitate deep connection and community healing. Arts organizations are now prioritizing and funding programming that connects artists and teachers directly with individuals and communities experiencing challenges like homelessness, mental or physical health diagnoses, social/racial inequity, trauma, and others. This course is designed for students who want to use their creative skills to build a career that directly contributes to positive social change and the wellbeing of others. Led by Dr. Travis Marcum, enrollees will learn from national arts leaders about program building, artistic direction, and education for the greater good. Students will engage in collaborative creative projects and join local community organizations in action. FA 371/381 Business of Entertainment (20205) INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00PM-8:00PM WHERE: RLP 1.104 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. FA 371 Money and Art (20215) INSTRUCTOR: Peter Kahng WHEN: TTH 2:00pm - 3:30pm WHERE: MRH 4.116 Explore the secretive world of the high-end Fine Art market for the unique insights it provides into Economic Theory and Human Behavior. This course will examine the world of high-end art, across classical, modern and contemporary art markets. It will explore the industry structure, participant behaviors and incentives of the market participants to uncover insights into traditional economic theory. The goal of the course is to look at practical applications of economic principals in the most secretive, aspirational industry in the world. As we remove underlying theoretical assumptions through the unique characteristics of the art market, we reveal insights into consumer behavior and human nature. FA 371 Women in Entrepreneurship (20219) INSTRUCTOR: Jan Ryan and Kendra Scott WHEN: T 4:00PM-7:00PM WHERE: Kendra Scott HQ This class, co-taught by entrepreneurs / UT faculty members Jan Ryan and Kendra Scott, will immerse students in the core tenets of creating a new business from the point of view of the female founder. The course is designed to provide hands-on, tangible tools to equip and empower female entrepreneurs. Using a “live” case study of Kendra Scott, LLC, and with a blend of lectures, experiential exercises and guest speakers, the class will expose obstacles that women face in contemporary society, with strategies to overcome. Targeted students are those who are interested in the female founder’s unique perspective, are curious about starting their own company, or who simply want to pursue an understanding of the entrepreneurial mindset. The goal of this class is to confront common gender biases and conditioning, and in the context of the entrepreneurial journey provide actionable advice to empower students to see larger possibilities for their career. Classes will be held at the headquarters for Kendra Scott, LLC. *Note: Students are allowed to enroll in this course only after an application process. Applications are available October 13-24 and can be found at https://utexas.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_5tn9BYCK4yUrNJ4 Fall 2021 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 171 Creative Entrepreneurship (20605) INSTRUCTOR: Cam Houser WHEN: M 4:00PM-7:00PM, the first 5 weeks of the semester (8/31 - 9/27) WHERE: DFA 4.106 Previously ITD 115. Introduction to the creative process of starting a new company around your passion, and exploring the integration of entrepreneurship for creative industries. In this context, a creative entrepreneur is one who serves an industry with a creative output, such as design, arts and entertainment, music, architecture, food, fashion and textiles, theatre, and consumer product goods. This class intends to demystify the entrepreneurial process through hands-on, project-based learning. *Note: FA 171 is a one-hour elective in the the Minor in Arts Management and Administration program. If you are wondering how this course can correspond to your official MAMA minor, please contact the minor program advisor Chris Montes. FA 171 Legal Aspects of the Arts and Creative Industries Ecosystem (20610) INSTRUCTOR: Sammetria Goodson WHEN: M 4:00PM-7:00PM, the second 5 weeks of the semester (10/4-11/1) WHERE: Hybrid, some classes online only, some in DFA 4.106 This class, taught by renowned Arts Attorney Sammetria Goodson, will provide an overview of key legal issues encountered by professionals as they navigate the arts and creative industries ecosystem. Students from all fine arts and design disciplines will benefit from learning about contracts, licensing, artists’ rights, intellectual property and best practices for protecting the fruits of their creativity. Through a combination of case studies, experiential exercises, and lectures, this class will equip students with the information and approaches necessary to support sustainable art practices and professional endeavors. Students are encouraged to think about their artistic disciplines in the context of market participation, with the goal of dismantling the “starving artist” mindset. *Note: FA 171 is a one-hour elective in the the Minor in Arts Management and Administration program. If you are wondering how this course can correspond to your official MAMA minor, please contact the minor program advisor Chris Montes. FA 340/640/940 Fine Arts Internship – WB (20570) INSTRUCTOR: Calder Kamin WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Calder Kamin, Fine Arts Career Services Manager, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management (20590) INSTRUCTOR: TBA WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.610 This survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. FA 364/381 Developing and Reaching Audiences (20595) INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Matthew Hinsley WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 Formerly listed as Arts Administration and Community Service, this course introduces creative workers to the principles and successful practices of community engagement and service in the value-driven nonprofit sector. Through sessions and portfolio-building exercises devoted to mission and vision development, programming and public service, constituent-specific marketing, writing and speaking, community fundraising, as well as the cultivation of press and patrons, among others, students develop a clear sense of how to build audiences by building deep and genuine relations with community. This course is taught by Dr. Matt Hinsley, Executive Director of Austin Classical Guitar Society. FA 371/381 Business of Entertainment (20615) INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00PM-8:00PM WHERE: TBD What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. FA 371 Women in Entrepreneurship (20630) INSTRUCTOR: Jan Ryan and Kendra Scott WHEN: T 4:00PM-7:00PM WHERE: Kendra Scott HQ This class, co-taught by entrepreneurs / UT faculty members Jan Ryan and Kendra Scott, will immerse students in the core tenets of creating a new business from the point of view of the female founder. The course is designed to provide hands-on, tangible tools to equip and empower female entrepreneurs. Using a “live” case study of Kendra Scott, LLC, and with a blend of lectures, experiential exercises and guest speakers, the class will expose obstacles that women face in contemporary society, with strategies to overcome. Targeted students are those who are interested in the female founder’s unique perspective, are curious about starting their own company, or who simply want to pursue an understanding of the entrepreneurial mindset. The goal of this class is to confront common gender biases and conditioning, and in the context of the entrepreneurial journey provide actionable advice to empower students to see larger possibilities for their career. Classes will be held at the headquarters for Kendra Scott, LLC. *Note: Students are allowed to enroll in this course only after an application process. Apply today at https://ksinstitute.utexas.edu/courses Spring 2021 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 171 Money and Art INSTRUCTOR: Peter Kahng. WHEN: MW 4:00PM-5:30PM, the first 5 weeks of the semester Online-only course. Explore the secretive world of the high-end Fine Art market for the unique insights it provides into Economic Theory and Human Behavior. This course will examine the world of high-end art, across classical, modern and contemporary art markets. It will explore the industry structure, participant behaviors and incentives of the market participants to uncover insights into traditional economic theory. The goal of the course is to look at practical applications of economic principals in the most secretive, aspirational industry in the world. As we remove underlying theoretical assumptions through the unique characteristics of the art market, we reveal insights into consumer behavior and human nature. *Note: FA 171 is a one-hour elective in the the Minor in Arts Management and Administration program. If you are wondering how this course can correspond to your official MAMA minor, please contact the minor program advisor Chris Montes. FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Penny Brandt WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM Online-only course. This survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. FA 365/381 Fundraising in the Arts INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Penny Brandt WHEN: TTH 2:00PM-3:30PM Online-only course. Survey of strategies involved in generating contributed income for arts organizations from private individuals, foundations, corporations, businesses and government agencies, and focus on how the process is related to marketing tickets to the same patrons. FA 371/381 Business of Entertainment INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00PM-8:00PM Online-only course. What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. Fall 2020 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Penny Brandt WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM Online-only course. This survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 364/TD 387D Developing & Reaching Audiences INSTRUCTOR: Prof. Pamela Buchanan WHEN: T 2:00PM - 5:00PM WHERE: SZB 524 Formerly listed as Arts Administration and Community Service, this course introduces creative workers to the principles and successful practices of community engagement and service in the value-driven nonprofit sector. Through sessions and portfolio-building exercises devoted to mission and vision development, programming and public service, constituent-specific marketing, writing and speaking, community fundraising, as well as the cultivation of press and patrons, among others, students develop a clear sense of how to build audiences by building deep and genuine relations with community. This course is taught by Dr. Matt Hinsley, Executive Director of Austin Classical Guitar Society. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 369/FA 381 The Entrepreneurial Artist INSTRUCTOR: Prof. Jessica Voigt Page WHEN: MWF 12:00pm - 1:00pm WHERE: MRH M3.113 This course takes an experiential approach to learning effectual artist entrepreneurship. Effectual entrepreneurship is a decision-making strategy that focuses on a team’s resources and environment in the launching of a venture. The course’s desired outcome of arts entrepreneurial action is the establishment of a system to support the artist, their product and its distribution. In this class, you will launch an arts-based business venture. By doing such work, you will learn about opportunity recognition, customer/audience development, business planning, entrepreneurial finance, and other topics relevant to sustainable and self-directed careers in the arts. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 340 Fine Arts Internship – WB INSTRUCTOR: Calder Kamin WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Calder Kamin, Fine Arts Career Services Manager, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371/FA 381/ITD 350 Business of Entertainment INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:30PM-8:30PM WHERE: RLP 0.102 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Independent Inquiry Flag requirement. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements Spring 2020 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Penny Brandt WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: RLP 0.122 This survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 364/381 Developing & Reaching Audiences INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Matt Hinsley WHEN: TTH 3:30PM - 5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 Formerly listed as Arts Administration and Community Service, this course introduces creative workers to the principles and successful practices of community engagement and service in the value-driven nonprofit sector. Through sessions and portfolio-building exercises devoted to mission and vision development, programming and public service, constituent-specific marketing, writing and speaking, community fundraising, as well as the cultivation of press and patrons, among others, students develop a clear sense of how to build audiences by building deep and genuine relations with community. This course is taught by Dr. Matt Hinsley, Executive Director of Austin Classical Guitar Society. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 340 Fine Arts Internship – WB INSTRUCTOR: Calder Kamin WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Calder Kamin, Fine Arts Career Services Manager, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371/FA 381/ITD 350 Business of Entertainment INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00PM-8:00PM WHERE: RLP 0.102 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Independent Inquiry Flag requirement. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371/TD 387D Arts in a Global World INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Cristóbal Bianchi WHEN: TTH 12:30PM- 2:00PM WHERE: CAL 200 Taught by renowned artist and scholar Dr. Cristobal Bianchi (casagrande collective), this course combines the critical study of community and socially-engaged art, large-scale installations, mixed media arts forms, activism and biogenetics with skill-building exercises to prepare arts professionals to operate ethically in international political, social and cultural contexts. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Global Cultures Flag requirement. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements Fall 2019 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Karen Munnelly WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.610 Taught by the college's Director of Professional Programs, Dr. Karen Munnelly, this survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 365 Fundraising in the Arts INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Penny Brandt WHEN: TTH 12:30PM - 2:00PM WHERE: ART 3.432 Where do Arts organizations get their funding? This course includes a survey of strategies involved in generating contributed income for arts organizations from private individuals, foundations, corporations, businesses and government agencies. The strategies will then be applied to real-life projects, including online crowdfunding, grant applications, and research and cultivation of prospective donors. We will also focus on how the fundraising process is related to marketing tickets to the same donors via social media and traditional marketing media. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 340 Fine Arts Internship – WB INSTRUCTOR: Calder Kamin WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Calder Kamin, Fine Arts Career Services Manager, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 Show Business: The Practice of Producing Commercial Entertainment INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00PM-8:00PM WHERE: RLP 0.126 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Independent Inquiry Flag requirement. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 Producing Art for Social Change INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Cristóbal Bianchi WHEN: TTH 11:00AM- 12:30PM WHERE: SZB 426 Taught by renowned artist and scholar Dr. Cristobal Bianchi (casagrande collective), this course prepares students to create community and participatory art, traditional public art, and collaborative cultural projects focused on social change. Lessons combine the study of social change art taking place internationally with skill-building exercises to support students’ capacities to conceptualize, design, produce and exhibit their own projects at home. As part of the class, students will be taught to create and produce works for UT/Austin communities and to consider how they might make these projects relevant to places beyond. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 House Management and Audience Relations INSTRUCTOR: Pamela Buchanan WHEN: TTH 2:00PM-3:30PM WHERE: TBD This course focuses on the “front of house” experiences and includes a variety of practices from volunteer management and dispute resolution to donor/patron relations, among others. A portion of this course will also focus on practices related dis/ability awareness and accommodations. Class meetings will alternate between campus seminar discussions and activities at local theatres, music halls, and arts spaces, where students will pursue academic service learning with guest professionals. *Fulfills18-20 catalog requirements Spring 2019 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Karen Munnelly WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: RLP 0.122 Taught by the college's Director of Professional Programs, Dr. Karen Munnelly, this survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 365 Fundraising in the Arts INSTRUCTOR: TBD WHEN: TTH 3:30PM-5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 Survey of strategies involved in generating contributed income for arts organizations from private individuals, foundations, corporations, businesses and government agencies, and focus on how the process is related to marketing tickets to the same patrons. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 340 Fine Arts Internship – WB INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Karen Munnelly WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Karen Munnelly, Director of Professional Programs for the College of Fine Arts, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 Show Business: The Practice of Producing Commercial Entertainment INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 6:00PM-9:00PM WHERE: RLP 0.122 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Independent Inquiry Flag requirement. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 Arts in a Global World INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Cristóbal Bianchi WHEN: TTH 12:30-2:00PM WHERE: CAL 200 Taught by renowned artist and scholar Dr. Cristobal Bianchi (casagrande collective), this course combines the critical study of community and socially-engaged art, large-scale installations, mixed media arts forms, activism and biogenetics with skill-building exercises to prepare arts professionals to operate ethically in international political, social and cultural contexts. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Global Cultures Flag requirement. *Fulfills 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 New Arts Journalism INSTRUCTOR: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin WHEN: TTH 9:30AM-11:00AM WHERE: RLP 0.124 Taught by award-winning arts journalist and editor Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, New Arts Journalism introduces students to the landscape, skills, and practices of contemporary arts journalism for print and online media in the United States. In addition to learning to write about the arts for a general readership, students will analyze today’s media platforms and learn to shape their work to be effective in multiple formats. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Writing Flag requirement. *Fulfills18-20 catalog requirements Fall 2018 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Karen Munnelly WHEN: TTH 9:30-11:00AM WHERE: DFA 4.112 Taught by the college's Director of Professional Programs, Dr. Karen Munnelly, this survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 364/381 Developing and Reaching Audiences INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Matt Hinsley WHEN: TTH 3:30-5PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 Formerly listed as Arts Administration and Community Service, this course introduces creative workers to the principles and successful practices of community engagement and service in the value-driven nonprofit sector. Through sessions and portfolio-building exercises devoted to mission and vision development, programming and public service, constituent-specific marketing, writing and speaking, community fundraising, as well as the cultivation of press and patrons, among others, students develop a clear sense of how to build audiences by building deep and genuine relations with community. This course is taught by Dr. Matt Hinsley, Executive Director of Austin Classical Guitar Society. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements FA 371 Show Business: The Practice of Producing Commercial Entertainment INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 5:00-8:00PM WHERE: CLA 0.112 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Independent Inquiry Flag requirement. *Fulfills18-20 catalog requirements FA 340 Fine Arts Internship – WB INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Karen Munnelly WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Karen Munnelly, Director of Professional Programs for the College of Fine Arts, this course offers students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Students must have secured an internship in order to enroll in the course. The class is offered 100% online every semester. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. *Fulfills 16-18 and 18-20 catalog requirements Spring 2018 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration Minor in Arts Management & Administration Courses that fulfill the 2016-2018 catalog requirements FA 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Matt Hinsely WHEN: TTH 3:30-5:00PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 UNIQUE FA 362: 18885 UNIQUE FA 383: 18905 Taught by Austin arts leader Dr. Matt Hinsley (Executive Director of the Austin Classical Guitar Society), this course applies entrepreneurship and leadership studies to assess the means by which art is delivered to communities and artists are paid. With the support and direct involvement of a wide variety of accomplished arts professionals, Foundations in Arts Management introduces students to a host of career opportunities, from event production to commercial media to arts-based social change work, to name a few. Working across for profit and nonprofit sectors, students in this course produce a portfolio from which to envision and implement a profession in the arts. *FA 362 is required for all students pursuing the Minor in Arts Management an Administration. FA 369/381 The Entrepreneurial Artist INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Paul Bonin-Rodriguez WHEN: TTH 3:30-5:00PM WHERE: WIN 1.164 UNIQUE FA 369: 18887 UNIQUE FA 381: 18903 This course takes an experiential approach to learning effectual artist entrepreneurship. Effectual entrepreneurship is a decision-making strategy that focuses on a team’s resources and environment in the launching of a venture. The course’s desired outcome of arts entrepreneurial action is the establishment of a system to support the artist, their product and its distribution. In this class, you will launch an arts-based business venture. By doing such work, you will learn about opportunity recognition, customer/audience development, business planning, entrepreneurial finance, and other topics relevant to sustainable and self-directed careers in the arts. *This course fulfills Skills and Experience Ethics & Leadership and Independent Inquiry Flag requirements. FA 340 Fine Arts Internship INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Karen Munnelly WHEN & WHERE: Online UNIQUE: 18880 Taught by Dr. Karen Munnelly, the Director of Professional Programs for the College of Fine Arts, this course offers curricular support to students’ internship work in a prominent arts and culture organizations. Students must have secured an internship prior to enrolling in the course. FA340 requires the student to complete 150 work hours at their internship. Additional Arts Management & Administration Courses The courses below are not included in the 2016-2018 catalog for the Minor in Arts Management and Administration, however they will be included in the 2018-2020 catalog. FA 371 New Arts Journalism INSTRUCTOR: Jeanne Claire van Ryzin WHEN: TTH 11:00AM-12:30PM WHERE: CLA 0.120 UNIQUE: 18888 Taught by award-winning arts journalist and editor Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, New Arts Journalism introduces students to the landscape, skills, and practices of contemporary arts journalism for print and online media in the United States. In addition to learning to write about the arts for a general readership, students will analyze today’s media platforms and learn to shape their work to be effective in multiple formats. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Writing Flag requirement. FA 371 Big Shows: Producing Commercial Theater INSTRUCTOR: Natasha Davison WHEN: M 6:00-9:00PM WHERE: CLA 0.122 UNIQUE: 18882 What is involved in producing large-scale, live, commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business. Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Independent Inquiry Flag requirement. FA 371 Producing Art in the Global World: Contexts and Strategies INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Cristóbal Bianchi WHEN: TTH 12:30-2:00PM WHERE: SZB 286 UNIQUE: 18886 Taught by renowned artist and scholar Dr. Cristobal Bianchi (casagrande collective), this course combines the critical study of community and socially-engaged art, large-scale installations, mixed media arts forms, activism and biogenetics with skill-building exercises to prepare arts professionals to operate ethically in international political, social and cultural contexts. *This course fulfills a Skills and Experience Global Cultures Flag requirement. FA 371 Festival & Event Management INSTRUCTOR: Rusty Cloyes WHEN: TTH 3:30-5:00PM WHERE: WIN 1.108 UNIQUE: 18889 Led by experienced tour, festival, event, and theatrical stage manager, Rusty Cloyes, Festival and Event Management investigates what it takes to successfully and seamlessly run a festival or event from concept to completion. Guests will include directors and managers pulled from the extensive experience of festival and event production companies in Austin and New York City. Fall 2017 courses offered in Arts Management and Administration The following courses will be offered in fall 2017 for students interested in Arts Management and Administration. A 362/383 Foundations of Arts Management WHEN: TTH 3:30-5PM WHERE: CLA 0.122 Taught by the college's Director of Professional Programs, Dr. Karen Munnelly, this survey course introduces students to a variety of successful management strategies for contemporary arts organizations. Ideal for all future arts professionals – artists and administrators alike – Foundations in Arts Management also pays special attention to organizational creation, leadership, mission development, fundraising, audience development, evaluation and issues in cultural policy and philanthropy. FA 364/381 Developing and Reaching Audiences WHEN: TTH 3:30-5PM WHERE: MRH 2.604 28 seats undergrad, 2 seats grad Formerly listed as Arts Administration and Community Service, this course introduces creative workers to the principles and successful practices of community engagement and service in the value-driven nonprofit sector. Through sessions and portfolio-building exercises devoted to mission and vision development, programming and public service, constituent-specific marketing, writing and speaking, community fundraising, as well as the cultivation of press and patrons, among others, students develop a clear sense of how to build audiences by building deep and genuine relations with community. This course is taught by Dr. Matt Hinsley, Executive Director of Austin Classical Guitar Society. FA 365/385 Fundraising in the Arts: Principles and Practices WHEN: TH 12:30-2PM WHERE: DFA 4.106 (tentative) 10 seats undergrad, 6 seats grad Taught by Professor Kathleen Panoff, Director and Associate Dean of Texas Performing Arts in the College of Fine Arts, this course introduces students to a variety of successful strategies that arts organizations use to generate income from individuals, foundations, corporations, businesses, and government agencies and build audiences in the process. Because successful fundraising requires good communication skills, this course is writing intensive. *For students seeking more detailed information about the writing intensity of Professor Panoff's Fundraising course, please email her prior to registration: kpanoff@texasperformingarts.org. FA 140 Fine Arts Internship – WB WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based 20 seats Taught by Fine Arts Career Services Mangager Nathan Langfitt, this course assists students in internship placement and offers curricular support their work in a prominent arts and culture organizations. FA 140 requires 50 hours of internship work. This class has online and in-person components. FA 340 Fine Arts Internship – WB WHEN AND WHERE: Web-based Taught by Fine Arts Career Services Mangager Nathan Langfitt, this course assist students in internship placement and offers curricular support their work in a prominent arts and culture organizations. FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. This class has online and in-person components. Spring 2017 courses in Arts Management and Administration FA 362: Foundations in Arts Management When: Tuesdays and Thursdays 3:30 p.m.–5 p.m. Where: MRH 2.604 Taught by arts leader Dr. Matt Hinsley (Executive Director of the Austin Classical Guitar Society), this class is about opening students’ minds to possibilities for the arts in the marketplace. For arts to serve, to inspire, to sell, to thrive. Overlaying three goals to learn about artistic disciplines, to learn about management techniques and to learn about UT resources for arts entrepreneurs, we hear from a wide variety of guests including professors from across campus, directors of major arts nonprofits and professionals in industries ranging from video game to film production, touring pop shows and Broadway. The end result? You. Our final project is a refined vision of you as an arts professional. May be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. FA 360 Big Shows: The Business of Producing Commercial Theater When: Mondays, 6 p.m.–9 p.m. Where: Location TBD Taught by Broadway veteran and entrepreneur Natasha Davison, this course focuses on artistic production in the exciting and risky world of the commercial stage. What is involved in producing large-scale, live commercial entertainment? From music festivals to theater spectaculars, from the financial disaster of Spiderman to the blockbuster success of Hamilton, this course provides an overview of commercial entertainment fundamentals through case studies, engagement with guests from the entertainment industry, and examination of the business of show business; designed for those interested in arts, business and producing. *This class may NOT be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. FA 368 Cultural Policy/Participation When: Tuesdays 2 p.m.-5 PM Where: SRH 3.314 Taught by Professor Francie Ostrower, this course examines governmental and private policies, and structures that impact cultural production and participation. The class also considers rationales for and against public support for culture, how policies have both promoted and impeded cultural producers and consumers, advocacy efforts by organizations in the cultural sector, and relations between governmentalpolicy and private initiative. May be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management in Administration. Prerequisite: Upper-division standing, or consent of instructor. TD 354T Producing and Organizational Leadership When: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2 p.m.–3:30 p.m. Where: WIN 1.164 Taught by professor Rusty Cloyes, this class combines the history, theory, principles and practices of management of arts and culture organizations with a broader study of questions of leadership. Students in this course apply study to project-based learning and a focus on writing and presentation skills to prepare for careers as future organizational leaders and managers. *This class may NOT be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. FA 140 and FA 340 Internship Courses Taught by Karen Munnelly, the Director of Professional Programs for the College of Fine Arts, these courses offer students curricular support with their work in a prominent arts and culture organization. Students must have secured in an internship in order to enroll in either course. FA 140 requires 50 hours of internship work, and FA 340 requires 150 hours of internship work. Both classes have online and in-person components. FA 340 may be counted toward the transcripted minor in Arts Management and Administration. Back to top All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader