Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Information for Supporters COVID-19 updates in the College of Fine Arts COVID-19 updates for UT Austin The UT Austin College of Fine Arts is the state's premier incubator of new creative thinking, artistic originality and fine arts research. And we need your support. Table of Contents Fundraising How to Make a Gift Endowments Volunteer Hire Students or Alumni Make A Gift Today Have a Question or Want More Information? Contact Executive Director and Associate Dean for Development, Sondra Lomax, 512.471.6468 Fundraising Top Fundraising Priorities Research and collaborative program support College-to-Career success initiatives Facilities upgrades UT is a public institution, but only 12% of UT's budget is provided for by state funding. Philanthropic aid is vital to sustaining our community. It provides scholarships so that students can achieve their academic and professional goals, programming support to keep the college at the forefront of arts education and resources to recruit and retain the finest artists and field leaders to our world-class faculty. We need your help to nurture the creativity and exploration that impacts our culture, our society and our nation's growth. Together, we can inspire creative lives to change the world. Back to Top How to Give Donate Now Endowments Gift Planning Foundation and Corporate Gifts Non-monetary Donations Back to Top Endowments Endowments are incredibly important to sustaining the college's quality of excellence now and into the future. Endowments allow donors to provide everlasting support to the area they are most passionate about in the College of Fine Arts. Endowments may be created through a single gift or by payments over a five-year period. These funds are then placed in long-term accounts, where the principal remains intact. The earned interest provides funding for the designated students, faculty or program. One gift can support generations of fine arts education. Endowment Categories Faculty Support Faculty endowments enable the college to offer salary support to faculty and special funds to distinguished lecturers. They also support and reward faculty for exemplary research and scholarly efforts. Dean's Chair - $5,000,000 minimum to establish Departmental Leadership Chair - $3,000,000 minimum to establish Distinguished University Chair - $3,000,000 minimum to establish Chair - $2,000,000 minimum to establish - recognize deans, department chairs and senior faculty Distinguished Professorship - $1,000,000 minimum to establish Professorship - $500,000 minimum to establish - awarded to outstanding mid-level and senior faculty Faculty Fellowship - $250,000 minimum to establish - support excellent teachers regardless of rank or tenure Program Support Endowed Excellence Funds benefit specific areas and programs in the college by enhancing art and history collections, research units and academic programs. Endowed Excellence Fund - $25,000 minimum to establish Student Support Student endowments create opportunities for those in financial need, encourage students to strive for excellence and allows the college to recruit the very best student scholars. Distinguished Graduate Fellowship - $1,000,000 minimum to establish Presidential Graduate Fellowship - $250,000 minimum to establish Graduate Fellowship - $100,000 minimum to establish Presidential Undergraduate Scholarship - $250,000 minimum to establish Undergraduate Scholarship - $50,000 minimum to establish Established Endowments Back to Top Volunteer Texas Performing Arts volunteer ushers play a key role in our goal of providing the very best service to our guests. Volunteers should be interested in the performing arts, have superior customer service skills, and be willing and able to work as part of a great team of other volunteers and staff members. Become an Usher Landmarks Docents lead the campus community and visitors on tours of the public art collection. The Landmarks Preservation Guild maintains the works of art in the collection and keeps the university’s campus a beautiful and engaging place. Landmarks welcomes volunteers and seeks creative ways to take advantage of volunteer support. Volunteer with Landmarks Back to Top Hire Students or Alumni Post a Job or Internship If you are looking for a candidate with creativity, problem solving ability, strong interpersonal capabilities, self–discipline, a results–oriented attitude and the ability to work independently and collaboratively, then look no further. Below are options for posting your available positions. HireUTexas powered by Handshake – Post professional positions and internship opportunities for students and alumni in majors across the university. If you would like help setting up an employer account, please email FACS using the link below. Fine Arts Career Services (FACS) will be happy to consult with you at any step of your recruiting process. Email FACS Policies Employers who utilize Fine Arts Career Services are expected to abide by The University of Texas at Austin’s equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination policies. All job and internship postings on Fine Arts Works must adhere to the HireUTexas Job Posting Policies. Back to Top Back to top Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader