Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Alumni Outcomes College of Fine Arts alumni span the globe and include renowned artists, actors, musicians, illustrators, directors,curators, performers, designers and more. They’ve won Academy Awards, Pulitzer Prizes, Emmy Awards, Grammy Awards and more. We are proud of our College of Fine Arts alumni, and we share a sampling below of some of our most celebrated graduates and their many pathways to success. To learn more about our alumni outcome data, please visit our Strategic National Arts Alumni Project page. Notable Alumni Kevin Adams is a four-time Tony Award-winning lighting designer who has designed 20 Broadway shows, including Spring Awakening, American Idiot, Hedwig and the Angry Inch, Next To Normal, The 39 Steps, Hair and Passing Strange and solo shows featuring John Leguizamo, Eve Ensler and Kevin Bacon. Koury Angelo (B.F.A., Studio Art, 2004) is an award-winning rock’n’roll and portrait photographer whose photos have appeared in Rolling Stone, Billboard, GQ and more. Don Bacigalupi (PhD, Art History, 1993) is the former executive director of the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art and the founding president for the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art (to be built in Chicago). Barbara Conrad (B.M., Music Studies, 1959) was a mezzo-soprano with New York’s Metropolitan Opera and performed leading operatic roles with the Vienna State Opera, the Teatro Nacional de Venezuela, the Houston Grand Opera, the New York City Opera, the Pittsburgh Opera and many other opera houses throughout the world. Felicia Day (B.S., Mathematics, 1998) is an actress, producer, writer and internet pioneer known for her television and web work in the CW show Supernatural, and the SyFy series The Magicians, Joss Whedon’s Internet musical Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog and the web series The Guild. She attended UT on a full violin scholarship. Farrah Fawcett (B.F.A., Art Education, 1965) was an actress probably best known for her role in Charlie’s Angels. Elliott Forrest (B.A., Drama, 1979) is a Peabody Award winning broadcaster, producer and director who is heard nationally as the radio host on WNYC. Marcia Gay Harden (B.A., Drama, 1980) is a film, television and theatre actress, two-time Academy Award winner and recipient of Tony and Primetime Emmy awards. Andrew Hinderaker (M.F.A., Playwriting, 2013) is a screenwriter, showrunner and producer of Away, Penny Dreadful and Let the Right One In. Billy Hunter (B.M., Music Performance, 1997) is the principal trumpet player for the Metropolitan Opera. Tom Jones (B.F.A, Theatrical Design, 1949; M.F.A., Drama, 1951) is lyricist and librettist, best known for The Fantasticks, co-written with fellow UT alum Harvey Schmidt. Bruce McGill (B.F.A., Drama, 1973) is a film actor known for his classic roles in Animal House, My Cousin Vinny and Lincoln, and for his television roles in Rizzoli & Isles, MacGyver and Star Trek Voyager. Pamela Ribon (B.F.A., Drama Production, 1997) is a screenwriter (Moana, Ralph Breaks the Internet), TV writer (Samantha Who?), comic book writer (SLAM!, Rick and Morty) and best-selling novelist (You Take It From Here, Going in Circles, Why Moms are Weird, Why Girls Are Weird). Robert Schenkkan (B.A., Drama, 1975) is a playwright and screenwriter, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for The Kentucky Cycle, the 2014 Tony Award for best play, two Emmy nominations, and a WGA award. Harvey Schmidt (B.F.A., Art, 1952) is a composer best known for The Fantasticks, co-written with fellow UT alum Tom Jones. Rip Torn (B.A., Drama, 1953) was an actor, director and producer known for his roles in Men in Black, Men in Black II, Dodgeball and Marie Antoinette. Justin Tucker (B.A., Music, 2011) is the placekicker for the Baltimore Ravens in the NFL. Tommy Tune (B.F.A., Art, Drama, 1961) was a dancer, choreographer and actor, recipient of 10 Tony Awards, numerous Drama Desk Awards and the National Medal of Arts. Chris Ware (B.F.A., Studio Art, 1990) is an artist, writer and cartoonist known for his cover illustrations for The New Yorker and other publications, as well as his Acme Novelty Library series and his graphic novels Jimmy Corrigan, the Smartest Kid on Earth and Building Stories. Michael Wellen (PhD, Art History, 2012) is the curator of international art at the Tate Modern in London. Read the Latest Alumni News Outstanding Alumni Awards Since 2014, the College of Fine Arts has honored its most prolific and successful alumni with the E. William Doty Distinguished Alumnus and Distinguished Young Alumnus awards. Back to top Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader