Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Center for Creative Entrepreneurship The mission of COFA’s newly created Center for Creative Entrepreneurship (CCE) couldn’t be more focused. We exist to empower our students with the mindset, skillset and the practice necessary to transform your passions into a sustainable business or career. We are focused on bringing forth students' innate entrepreneurial abilities toward the development of their future. Our rich diversity of students includes not only studio artists, sculptors, musicians and product designers, but also gaming developers, designers for 3D projection mapping, sound, artificial intelligence, augmented reality and immersive experiences, as well as Integrated Design students from other disciplines across UT campuses. Within the College of Fine Arts, we are focused on developing students who are able to move within the nexus of their artistic skills, technology and with an entrepreneurial mindset, so they can look at innovative solutions to address old and new problems. What Students Will Learn Build a new entrepreneurial identity Develop a mindset which can turn ideas into action Learn through experiential components how to create and grow a company. Understand how to market to audience and customers Demonstrate increased confidence in their ability to take calculated risks Gain prototyping experience for testing ideas How technology enables new creative tools Networking to develop connections Upcoming Classes FA 171: Creative Entrepreneurship Unique # 20605 Designed to introduce an entrepreneurial mindset and skillset to creative thinkers. FA 171: Legal Aspects of the Arts and Creative Industries Ecosystem Unique # 20610 Designed to teach students about the legal issues creatives face when starting and running their businesses. FA 371: Women in Entrepreneurship Unique # 20630 Designed with the female perspective of the journey, including strategies to overcome common obstacles. Every entrepreneur’s journey is unique, and that is why I view my role as bringing students a compass and not a map. There are no handrails. The most powerful way to know what you are made of is to learn as much as you can, try new things and believe in yourself. — Jan Ryan, Executive Director of the Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Programming Ideas Lab New this year, the College of Fine Arts Ideas Lab is a weekly meetup on Mondays from 5 to 6 p.m. for creative thinkers to develop and nurture their ideas. A great opportunity to talk with mentors, creators and artists. Pathways to Entrepreneurship Fall and Spring The Pathways to Entrepreneurship Speaker Series hosts conversations with creative leaders, artists, and business owners to share their success and challenges. Food, fun, inspiration and community. 3Day Startup for Creatives A first in the College of Fine Arts! This is a facilitated 72-hour learn-by-doing FREE workshop where students will learn how to launch a business over a weekend. No experience necessary. Entrepreneur in Residence Hosted by the Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Center, the Entrepreneur in Residence program is designed to allow students to sign up for special "Office Hours" encouraging direct conversations between students and successful creative founders from the outside community. It was very much “learn-by-doing,” incredibly collaborative and team-driven, and really useful in terms of bringing my original idea to life. Jan gave us the right background information, straightforward things in terms of the mindset of an entrepreneur and examples we could understand. She brought in guest speakers who talked about their own experiences and about how to bring a company to market and getting it to flourish. It was an amazingly well-orchestrated introduction to entrepreneurship. —Cole Godvin, M.A. in Art Education candidate Events Blog NEWS Creative Entrepreneurship Photo Gallery Click an image to view gallery for CCE Slideshow. GUEST SPEAKERS RESOURCES If you would like to know more about the Center for Creative Entrepreneurship in the College of Fine Arts, follow us on social media. To learn how to participate as a mentor, speaker or as a donor, please email us at creativeentrepreneurship@austin.utexas.edu. Students can email Jan Ryan to request Office Hours by appointment. Facebook | Instagram | Twitter Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Sponsors We are profoundly grateful for the generosity of our sponsors. For more information on how you can support the Center of Creative Entrepreneurship and its mission to foster and support an entrepreneurial mindset amongst creative thinkers, please contact Jan Ryan. Join the Creative Entrepreneurship Email List Select Interest groups Dean's Insider COFA Parents COFA Alumni Creative Entrepreneurship COFA graduate students (updated 2.13.20) COFA undergrads (updated 2.13.20) Back to top Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader