Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Programs and Initiatives for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Guest Artist Initiatives The FADC launched the Guest Artist Initiative in 2015 to provide supplemental funding to bring in guest artists and speakers who might expand our understanding as a college community of under-represented cultures and viewpoints. Visiting artists and speakers supported by the Guest Artist Initiative have included a symposium on Music, Property, and Law, as well as residencies by artists Mezcla; Mark “Stew” Stewart; Elizabeth Sayre/Susana Arenas; Tonya Pinkins; and a hip-hop residency with “Sampling.” We welcome proposals from staff and faculty for guest artists and speakers whose presence on the UT campus will further our diversity, equity and inclusion goals. Proposals will be reviewed three times a year on Oct. 1, Feb. 1, and May 1, and must be submitted at least eight weeks before the proposed residency. APPLY NOW Student Project Support The Fine Arts Diversity Council (FADC) supports and collaborates with the COFA units in the design and implementation of strategies that advance diversity. By actively establishing and fostering a culture of inclusivity throughout the College community, the council assists in the development of recruitment and retention strategies for underrepresented students, faculty and staff; provides forums for mutual respect, an appreciation of differences, and cross-cultural understandings; and prepares our community for a changing global society. We welcome proposals from COFA students for projects that will further the FADC mission. Up to $1,000 will be available for each proposal submitted; Proposals with complete information must be submitted at least four weeks before the proposed project. Proposals will be reviewed three times a year on Oct. 1, Feb. 1 and May 1. Proposals (with a detailed budget) will be reviewed by a COFA/FADC review team, and the council will respond within two weeks of proposal deadline. Students whose proposals receive funding will be expected to provide FADC with documentation of and images from the completed project. As part of their documentation, students are asked to submit a written reflection, final budget summary and any associated media including fliers, video clips, photos, announcement, etc. APPLY NOW Inclusive Classroom Training In 2014, the college partnered with the university’s Office for Inclusion and Equity (OIE) within the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) to launch the Inclusive Classrooms Leadership Certificate Seminar. The four-hour training program is aimed at empowering teaching assistants and assistant instructors with the skills to create a positive classroom environment and approach difficult situations that commonly arise in an academic setting. Back to top Dean's Welcome Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader