Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Kendra Scott Center Introduction In the spring of 2019, Kendra Scott and the College of Fine Art collaborated to redesign the existing student lounge located in the Doty Fine Arts Building. The renovated lounge has been renamed the Kendra Scott Center. It serves as a student hub for counseling, recruiting, mentorship, collaboration, entrepreneurship, independent study, and social gatherings. Main goals of the Kendra Scott Center include: Continued support of University required student services Provide space to support the Kendra Scott Women’s Entrepreneurship Leadership Institute (WEL Institute) and Center for Creative Entrepreneurship (CCE) Create a hub for creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship Foster university-wide interest in CoFA Maximize use of the student lounge area The Kendra Scott Center (KS Center) is managed by the College of Fine Arts Office of Student Affairs (CoFA Student Affairs) and the Kendra Scott Women’s Entrepreneurship Leadership Institute (WEL Institute). The center is comprised of the Lounge (Room 1.101), 5 Huddle Rooms (Rooms 1.101 A through E), a Reception Area (Room 1.101J), and a Student Affairs Desk which supports the operations of the KS Center. Additionally, there is a Conference Room adjacent to the center (Room 1.104). The center is equipped with an Audio Visual (AV) System comprised of one 86” display, two 65” displays, five 55” displays, a 21-speaker sound system, and a projection system. Additionally, furnishings are placed to provide seating and working options for users. Learn more about Kendra Scott and the WEL Institute To learn more about the center, click a section below. Hours of Operation The center is typically open 8am to 9pm, Monday through Friday, during normal campus operations. (See below for updates.) Requests for use outside these days and hours are honored on a case-by-case basis. The main phone line is 512-471-5011 and the center is located in the Doty Fine Arts Building, located at 2301 Trinity Street, Suite 1.101, on the first floor level. *UPCOMING CENTER CLOSINGS AND UPDATES* December 13-January 17, 2022 January 18-28, the center hours have been updated to *8am to 8pm* for study purposes only. On January 31st, booking requests and normal hours may resume. Stay tuned here for updates. Room Scheduling Current stakeholders designated by the Kendra Scott Center Committee, including registered student organizations affiliated with the College of Fine Arts (CoFA), may reserve space at the center by logging into ArtsVision. Note: Room requests cannot be made in ArtsVision more than two weeks in advance. Reserve on ArtsVision All other UT students, departments, offices as well as outside parties should complete the room reservation requests form. Reservation Request Form Scheduling Policies and Procedures Room Capacity: There are two main rooms available for scheduling in the Kendra Scott Center. The Lounge holds up to 209 people. The Conference Room holds up to 15 people. These numbers do not account for social-distancing measures. Both general public and stakeholder users are advised to plan accordingly when scheduling an event or meeting. General Public: You may reserve a space no more than two weeks before your requested date. Also, you must request rooms at least 72 hours before your requested date. If you are requesting a space for a Saturday or Sunday, please put in your request no later than the Thursday evening prior. Approved users must sign the most current version of the Space Use Policy Agreement via DocuSign. Stakeholders: In ArtsVision, under the “My Requests” tab, you’ll be able to view your requests and their status, whether approved or denied. Approved users must sign the most current version of the Space Use Policy Agreement via DocuSign. For reservations further into the future, you may now email the KS Center Front Desk. The Lounge, Conference Room, and Huddle Rooms may not be booked without confirmed approval from the Scheduling Coordinator, Mutiyat Ade-Salu or the Student Affairs Student Associates located at the front desk. Requests for the KS Center Lounge should be limited to large events, presentations, and workshops. If you are expecting 50 or more participants, you must hire custodial services (See the section "Custodial Services") and send an email in advance to Facilities Manager, Joe Jernejcic . Note: The Scheduling Coordinator will not approve any requests when campus is closed for operations. If you are holding a meeting in the Conference Room (DFA 1.104) or using the Huddle Rooms, there may be sound bleed issues with the KS Center Lounge. Room Gallery KS Center Lounge, Conference Room, & Huddle Rooms Click an image to view gallery for Rooms at the Kendra Scott Center. Access & Security Generally, rooms will be unlocked prior to your reservation by the Facilities Manager, Center Coordinator, or Student Assistant. The exterior doors facing west are controlled centrally by IT Security. These doors are unlocked from 8:00am to 6:00pm Monday through Friday and are locked on Saturday and Sunday. These doors are equipped with a "hold open" alarm that will sound if the doors are propped open. Please contact the Facilities Manager or call 512-474-7022 to have these door unlocked after the hours for an event. You should specify whether you need the "hold open" alarm turned off for your event. Parking & Loading General Parking: Parking Reservations may be made online. For your events, you may request permits for the San Jacinto Garage. Parking and Transportation requires notice 10 working days in advance; be sure to review the permits for any errors. You will need an account number for this application and PTS charges $12 per space. Click here to make a request. PAC Loading Zone: Behind DFA, there are 3 loading zone spaces that are sometimes available. Please note that the loading dock area gets easily congested due to use for events held by Texas Performing Arts. Custodial Services (Over 50 Guests) Events over 50 are required to hire custodial services. On their request form, you will note an option to request an estimate. Note: It can take up to 10 days to receive an estimate. Request Custodial Services Filming Read the university's Current Filming Guidelines Back to top All Degrees by Area of Study Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader