Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Scholarships You can finance your degree through combinations of artistic merit awarded by our college, financial aid, university merit, community-matching awards and private scholarships. Scholarship awards from College of Fine Arts Most awards from the College of Fine Arts do not require additional applications. All applicants who complete our application requirements by the deadline for their program are considered for artistic merit awards from the College of Fine Arts. All applicants are encouraged to complete the scholarships portion of ApplyTexas. Texas Advance Commitment The University of Texas at Austin has committed to covering all tuition costs for Texas students from families who make up to $30,000, and students from families with an adjusted gross income (AGI) of up to $100,000 are guaranteed partial aid. Beginning in fall 2020, tuition will be completely covered for students from families with an AGI of up to $60,000, and students from families with an AGI of $125,000 are guaranteed partial aid. Learn more about the program and eligibility requirements. University Scholarships Learn more about applying for other university scholarships. Need-based Financial Aid To be considered for need-based financial aid, all applicants must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Submit the FAFSA by January 15 to maximize the aid available to you. Financial aid can come in many forms including grants, scholarships, work-study opportunities and loans.  Community Matches The College of Fine Arts has committed to matching the following community-based scholarships, dollar-for-dollar*, for recipients who major in the College of Fine Arts. Matching is contingent upon students remaining in good-standing and meeting minimum GPA and other requirements for these awards. *Annual award amounts combined from organization and match may not exceed the cost of UT Austin's annual tuition.   Texas Interscholastic League Foundation (TILF) We provide a matching scholarship for up to 4 years for a student receiving certain scholarships from the TILF. COFA will provide a one year scholarship to winners of the TILF UIW One-Act Play contest. Educational Opportunities (Dallas, TX) The Dean's Office will provide matching scholarship funding for up to 4 years for freshmen who have also received scholarships from Educational Opportunities. O'Donnell Foundation The Dean's Office will provide up to $4,000 of matching scholarship funding for up to 4 years for students in the UIL AP Arts and Music Theory Scholarship Program that received a scholarship from the O'Donnell Foundation. McCallum High School (Austin, TX) The Dean’s Office will provide a $1,000 matching scholarship for up to 4 years for freshmen who have also received the Ruth Denny Memorial Scholarship from the McCallum High School Fine Arts Academy. Back to top featured_image_300x376.jpg COVID-19 updates from the College of Fine Arts COVID-19 updates from The University of Texas at Austin Make a gift to support Fine Arts scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader