Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Minors in the College of Fine Arts The College of Fine Arts offers three transcript-recognized minors to undergraduate students in the 2018-2020 catalog. A minor must be completed in conjunction with an undergraduate degree at the University of Texas at Austin, and at least half of the required course work in the minor must be completed in residence. A student may not earn a minor in the same field of study as his or her major, and at least nine of the hours required for the minor must include coursework not used to satisfy the requirements of the student’s major. However, courses in the minor may fulfill other degree requirements such as general education requirements or required elective hours. While the Art History Minor is open to all students, the application for the Minor in Arts Management and Administration is restricted to students with over 30 hours and a GPA of 2.5000 or above. Additionally, the Minor in Studio Art is restricted to students with a GPA of 3.0000 or above. The application for minors can be found here. Please note that after you apply, you must see your academic advisor to officially declare the minor. For additional information about our minors, view the current undergraduate catalog. Further questions about minors in previous catalogs may be directed to the Academic Advisor for Special Initiatives at chris.montes@austin.utexas.edu. Art History Minor (Open) The Art History Minor requirements are: Fifteen semester hours of coursework in art history, including at least 12 hours of upper-division coursework. All classes must be taken on the letter-grade basis. The student must earn a combined grade point average of at least 2.50 in minor coursework. Learn more about the Art History Minor. Minor in Arts Management and Administration (Restricted) The Arts Management and Administration Minor requirements are: Fifteen semester hours, consisting of: Fine Arts 362: Foundations of Arts Management Fine Arts 340: Fine Arts Internship Nine hours of eligible coursework in FA and Business Foundations courses. Course requirements vary by catalog year. 2.50 overall grade point average in minor coursework. All courses must be taken on the letter-grade basis. Learn more about the Minor in Arts Management and Administration. Minor in Studio Art (Currently Closed) Please note that the application for the Studio Art minor is currently closed. Applications for the Studio Art minor will remain closed during the 2020-2021 academic year. Please check this page again in Fall 2021 for updates. Thank you. The Minor in Studio Art requirements are: Fifteen semester hours, chosen from: ART 350, 352J, 352C, 352D, 352E, 352F, 352G, or 352K All courses must be taken on the letter-grade basis. Learn more about the Minor in Studio Art. Back to top All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader