Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Building Better Facilities Tuesday, April 26, 2022 Simone Leigh (b. 1967). Sentinel IV, 2020. Bronze. 128 x 25 x 15 inches. Photo by Paul Bardagjy Upgrades to Anna Hiss Gymnasium and a photography lab create new learning opportunities for Fine Arts students In recent years, the College of Fine Arts has focused heavily on updating and renovating facilities to offer our students the spaces they need to learn, research, design and develop their creative and scholarly practice during their time at UT. Two significant upgrades for the 2021-22 academic year were the opening of the north wing of the newly renovated Anna Hiss Gymnasium, which will house the Department of Design, and updated photography facilities in the Art Building. Built in 1930 as the first women’s gymnasium on campus, the Anna Hiss Gymnasium had fallen into disrepair in recent years. But in 2017, the university began a $26.5 million project to lovingly renovate and rehabilitate the entire building to support the university’s partnership with the Army Futures Command program and to support research and academic programs for Texas Robotics (aerospace engineering and engineering mechanics, computer science, electrical and computer engineering, mechanical engineering) and the Department of Design. Many features of the original building were maintained to preserve historical accuracy where possible. In the courtyard of Anna Hiss Gymnasium, Landmarks installed its latest acquisition, Simone Leigh’s sculpture, Sentinel IV. The work is modeled after a Zulu ceremonial spoon, a utensil that conveys status among the Zulu people and symbolizes women’s labor. In using the term “sentinel”—a person or thing that stands watch—Leigh honors Black femininity while also investigating historical and intersecting ideas of race, beauty and the association of Black women’s bodies with work. During the fall, the Department of Design moved into almost 10,000 square feet on the ground floor of the north wing. The space includes studio classrooms, shared faculty offices, communal meeting spaces and seminar rooms for the growing undergraduate and graduate Design programs. Thanks to the generosity of the Brown Foundation, the Art Building received significant upgrades to its photography facilities this year. The project included a renovated optical black-and-white darkroom, film-changing rooms, a computer lab, a large-format printing room and two flex-use spaces with a classroom/studio space and a print viewing/print finishing area. These hybrid facilities allow for better workflow in the service of the student learning experience. SHARE Back to top All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Social Media Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader