Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search About FADC Mission The Fine Arts Diversity Council (FADC, formerly known as the Fine Arts Diveristy Committee) supports and collaborates with the College of Fine Arts units in the design and implementation of strategies that advance diversity. By actively establishing and fostering a culture of inclusivity throughout the College community, the council assists in the development of recruitment and retention strategies for underrepresented students, faculty and staff; provides forums for mutual respect, an appreciation of differences, and cross-cultural understandings; and prepares our community for a changing global society. History In 2012, College of Fine Arts Dean Doug Dempster announced plans to create a task force to address issues related to diversity and inclusiveness in the college. The task force was asked to create an ambitious and comprehensive five-year plan that conveyed the college’s commitment to diversity and articulated specific goals, objectives and action plans for implementation. The committee utilized a multi-stage process developed by Campus Diversity and Strategic Initiatives staff within the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement. In 2014, the Fine Arts Diversity Committee delivered to the dean its strategic plan, which reflected two years of work. (For more information on the process, please visit the blog that documented the process.) The five-year plan addressed three broad categories: Recommendations for the recruitment and retention of diverse faculty, staff and students Recommendations for inclusive curricula and creative programming Recommendations for creating a more inclusive and equitable college culture and climate, and the dean approved the proposal. The dean approved the plan as the Fine Arts Strategic Diversity Plan, and the Provost’s Office generously contributed funding to support the implementation of the committee’s recommendations. Learn more about the process of developing the plan in this archived blog documenting the process. In 2021, the group changed the name to Fine Arts Diversity Council. To view some links on this page you may need to download Acrobat Reader. Back to top Dean's Welcome Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader