Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Information for Faculty & Staff COVID-19 updates in the College of Fine Arts COVID-19 updates for UT Austin Looking for faculty and staff information? We want this page to serve as an easy portal for important information for all staff and faculty in the College of Fine Arts. Table of Contents Human Resources IT Help Communications & Web Career Services Staff Council CARE Counselor Consultations Furniture and Equipment Exchange Department Resources Additional Resources COFA Faculty Affairs Home COFA Teaching COFA Staff Directory Human Resources Kevin Crook, Director of Human Resources kcrook@austin.utexas.edu 512-475-7028 DFA 2.422A Danielle Jones, Human Resource Coordinator danielle.jones@austin.utexas.edu 512-475-0629 DFA 2.422 Dean’s Office Organizational Chart (PDF, 116 KB) EID login required COFA HR Resources Barracuda DocuSign PowerForm Probationary Period Appraisal PowerForm New in Position Appraisal PowerForm Recruitment Guidance and Templates Onboarding Guidance and Templates Back to Top IT Help Desk The Fine Arts IT (FAIT) Help Desk delivers general computer, software, peripheral and networking support to the faculty and staff in the College of Fine Arts. Use the following options to contact us. 3 Ways to Get IT Help Create a Ticket on the Web Portal Create, track and collaborate online with UT Campus Central Services Desk: https://ut.service-now.com/sp (Bookmark this page) Log in Call *For immediate assistance call the UT Campus Central Services Desk at 512-475-9400 (5-9400) Self Help Common troubleshooting tips and instructions for COFA faculty and staff can be found on the Fine Arts IT Help Desk Wiki If you feel comfortable troubleshooting the IT issue on your own, search the IT @ UT Knowledge Base. If you'd like to learn more about campus IT support visit the ITS Customer Support Services website. Always, include the following information: That you are from the College of Fine Arts UT Tag (for computers issues; silver tag with number on it) location room/bldg contact phone number other people who are involved as detailed description of the issue as possible how urgent it is Why we ask you to contact Campus Central Services and not go directly to FAIT? The central Service Desk solves the needs for the UT community daily and have direct access to common UT systems. They are the first contact for support so that FAIT is better able to focus on your needs. If they are not able to quickly resolve your problem, the central Service Desk will create a ticket for you which is immediately routed to FAIT and allows FAIT to queue your issue. You can interact with any ticket you create either through phone or online at the user portal. Login here! https://ut.service-now.com/sp (mobile friendly!) Back to Top Communications & Web Resources Communications Resources and Guidelines The communications department in the College of Fine Arts shares the college’s most compelling stories to engage the media, current and prospective students, alumni, the general public and the university community. Our office is here to help faculty, staff and students with various marketing and communications needs. Our website includes the college's written style guide, visual guidelines, best practices for media interviews, social media guidelines and more. Visit COFA Communications Web Instruction The Web team provides the college with help and guidance for Web related questions. We're engaged in keeping the college websites secure and making sure they comply with legal requirements and university policies. On our website, you can connect with us, find resources, learn best practices, get tips on how to improve your website's performance, and much more. Visit COFA Web Back to Top Career Services for Faculty & Staff Fine Arts Career Services (FACS) provides a full range of services and resources to support students as they realize the full potential of their education and experiences. We are available to visit classrooms and conduct workshops for your students both in-person and virtually. Additionally, you can refer students to the Career Services office for one-on-one career advice, job/internship search assistance, and professional document reviews. Request a Presentation Fine Arts Career Services is available to visit your classroom and conduct workshops for your students. Workshops are conducted by our FACS staff. We offer several 30-60 minute workshops on a variety of topics including resumes, cover letters, job and internship searching, interviewing skills, networking and self-care. We can also tailor workshops to your needs. We require 2 weeks notice for standard in-class workshops. Requests for workshops on special topics not in our regular workshop rotation may require additional lead time depending on how much preparation time is needed. Our staff is available to conduct workshops Mon-Fri between 9am-5pm. Requests for workshops outside of these times will be handled on a case-by-case basis. If you would like a career services staff member to present to your class, please email facs@austin.utexas.edu with your preferred topic and date. We look forward to collaborating with you! Collaborate with FACS If you would like to collaborate on integrating career services content or appointments into your curriculum, please email facs@austin.utexas.edu detailing your inquiry. We are happy to work with you! Special Requests We welcome questions and suggestions about ways we can collaborate. Contact us today by email for more information or to discuss how we can meet your needs. Learn More Visit the Career Services for Students Website Back to Top Staff Council College of Fine Arts Staff Council connect the college with the University Staff Council. You can also connect with the campus Staff Council on Facebook. Back to Top CARE Counselor Consultations If you are a faculty or staff member and would like to talk about your concerns for a student, you can contact the CARE Counselor for guidance. For example, if you’ve observed a student in distress or you’re wondering how to check-in with a student, you can schedule a consultation with the counselor to discuss how to support the student. Back to Top Furniture and Equipment Exchange Each semester valuable departmental furniture and equipment gets sent to Surplus that could benefit other COFA units. Using this form, departments may post items that they no long need. Rules and Responsibilities: The Department that owns the item is responsible for offering it first to their faculty and staff. Once items are posted, they will be awarded to respondent on a first come first serve basis. Moving Expenses shall be paid by the department receiving the item. They shall be responsible for hiring Events and Moving in a timely fashion. Interested parties are responsible for verifying the dimensions of the item, its condition and whether the items suits your needs. Once, the item is transferred it becomes the responsibility of the new department. Inventory Control Tags – Transfer of Items with inventory control tags (Insert Image) must be coordinated with Erik Cabrera This shall include filling in the CCART. The COFA Facility Manager shall review all postings. The goal is to avoid passing items that are beyond their useful life onto other units. Storing unwanted items in hallways, corridors and loading docks is a fire egress hazard and this is prohibited. Submit Item to Give Review Available Items EID login required Back to Top Department & School Resources Art & Art History Faculty & Staff Music Faculty & Staff Theatre & Dance Faculty & Staff Back to Top Additional Resources UT Faculty & Staff Resources Workday Login Fine Arts Diversity Committee UT Employee Assistance Program (UT Mental Health Resource Free to UT Staff) The HealthPoint Wellness Program Academic Deadlines Course Schedules Syllabi and Instructor CV Upload Faculty Innovation Center Current Employee : Learning & Development Back to Top Back to top Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader