Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Who We Are We are the college of creativity at The University of Texas at Austin—a home for artists, performers, designers, scholars, educators, makers and creatives ready to change the world. What We Offer Department of Art and Art History Sarah and Ernest Butler School of Music Department of Theatre and Dance School of Design and Creative Technologies UTeach Fine Arts Fine Arts Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Programs and Research Centers Landmarks Public Art Program Texas Performing Arts Department of Art and Art History The Department of Art and Art History is one of the largest and most diverse in the country. It includes programs in studio art, art history, and art education and reflects the rigorous standards of a flagship institution, while offering an intimate environment for students to train as scholars, practitioners and educators in the arts. Go to Website Sarah and Ernest Butler School of Music The Sarah and Ernest Butler School of Music prepares artists, thinkers, makers and teachers to make profound contributions to the future of music. A comprehensive array of degree programs is offered, from the bachelors to the doctoral level in performance, composition, music and human learning, jazz, theory, musicology, ethnomusicology, pedagogy and liberal studies in music. Go to Website Department of Theatre and Dance The Department of Theatre and Dance is a world-class educational environment that serves as the ultimate creative incubator for the next generation of artists, thinkers and leaders in theatre and performance. The department offers an array of undergraduate and graduate programs in acting, dance, playwriting, directing, theatre education, theatre history and criticism, theatre design and technology and more. Go to Website School of Design and Creative Technologies Students learn about design and design thinking, as well as creative technologies that equip them to deliver artistic and thoughtful products and content in game design, themed entertainment, music and sound, motion graphics and video, immersive media and other creative technology fields. Go to Website UTeach Fine Arts UTeach Fine Arts offers teacher preparation programs in visual arts, theatre, dance and music, with courses that help prepare students for Texas Teacher Certification. UTeach Fine Arts graduates who want to teach arts in public schools in Texas have virtually 100 percent job placement. Go to Website Fine Arts Career Services Fine Arts Career Services offers resources tailored to the College of Fine Arts undergraduate and graduate student body. Our dedicated team of fine arts career advisors work extensively with students to prepare them for an increasingly competitive arts industry. Go to Website Center for Creative Entrepreneurship The Center for Creative Entrepreneurship in the College of Fine Arts was created to empower Fine Arts students with the mindset, skillset and practice necessary to transform their passions into a sustainable business or career. Go to Website Programs and Research Centers Explore the college’s dozens of academic research centers and program offerings, from the Mesoamerica Center to the Butler Opera Center and more. Go to Website Landmarks Public Art Program The Landmarks Public Art Program was launched in 2008 with the purpose of developing a cohesive collection of public art from a curatorial perspective. Today its projects beautify campus, engaging visitors and the community. Go to Website Texas Performing Arts Each year, Texas Performing Arts offers a diverse season of music, theatre, dance and conversation while remaining committed to serving the academic mission of the College of Fine Arts by supporting the work of students, faculty and staff. Go to Website What We Offer Department of Art and Art History The Department of Art and Art History is one of the largest and most diverse in the country. It includes programs in studio art, art history, and art education and reflects the rigorous standards of a flagship institution, while offering an intimate environment for students to train as scholars, practitioners and educators in the arts. Go to Website Sarah and Ernest Butler School of Music The Sarah and Ernest Butler School of Music prepares artists, thinkers, makers and teachers to make profound contributions to the future of music. A comprehensive array of degree programs is offered, from the bachelors to the doctoral level in performance, composition, music and human learning, jazz, theory, musicology, ethnomusicology, pedagogy and liberal studies in music. Go to Website Department of Theatre and Dance The Department of Theatre and Dance is a world-class educational environment that serves as the ultimate creative incubator for the next generation of artists, thinkers and leaders in theatre and performance. The department offers an array of undergraduate and graduate programs in acting, dance, playwriting, directing, theatre education, theatre history and criticism, theatre design and technology and more. Go to Website School of Design and Creative Technologies Students learn about design and design thinking, as well as creative technologies that equip them to deliver artistic and thoughtful products and content in game design, themed entertainment, music and sound, motion graphics and video, immersive media and other creative technology fields. Go to Website UTeach Fine Arts UTeach Fine Arts offers teacher preparation programs in visual arts, theatre, dance and music, with courses that help prepare students for Texas Teacher Certification. UTeach Fine Arts graduates who want to teach arts in public schools in Texas have virtually 100 percent job placement. Go to Website Fine Arts Career Services Fine Arts Career Services offers resources tailored to the College of Fine Arts undergraduate and graduate student body. Our dedicated team of fine arts career advisors work extensively with students to prepare them for an increasingly competitive arts industry. Go to Website Center for Creative Entrepreneurship The Center for Creative Entrepreneurship in the College of Fine Arts was created to empower Fine Arts students with the mindset, skillset and practice necessary to transform their passions into a sustainable business or career. Go to Website Programs and Research Centers Explore the college’s dozens of academic research centers and program offerings, from the Mesoamerica Center to the Butler Opera Center and more. Go to Website Landmarks Public Art Program The Landmarks Public Art Program was launched in 2008 with the purpose of developing a cohesive collection of public art from a curatorial perspective. Today its projects beautify campus, engaging visitors and the community. Go to Website Texas Performing Arts Each year, Texas Performing Arts offers a diverse season of music, theatre, dance and conversation while remaining committed to serving the academic mission of the College of Fine Arts by supporting the work of students, faculty and staff. Go to Website VIEW ALL DEGREES + MINORS News Designing New Futures Latinx Voices and Work Shine in College’s 2021-22 Season Building Better Facilities View More News 10:1 Student-to-faculty ratio 3 MacArthur Fellows on faculty 600+ Performances and events every year Back to top Upcoming Events Rupi Kaur Jun 11, 2022 Texas Performing Arts Zip ST.ART Program Jun 12 – 18, 2022 Department of Art and Art History Puscifer Jun 15, 2022 Texas Performing Arts ST.ART Pre-College and Creative Action Studio Camp Jun 20 – Jul 1, 2022 Department of Art and Art History ST.ART Educator Retreat Jun 20 – 24, 2022 Department of Art and Art History ST.ART Intensive Program Jun 26 – Jul 23, 2022 Department of Art and Art History The University of Texas Invitational Mariachi Conference Concert Jul 1, 2022 Butler School of Music The Masked Singer National Tour Jul 13, 2022 Texas Performing Arts A.R. Rahman Jul 29, 2022 Texas Performing Arts Mean Girls Aug 2 – 7, 2022 Texas Performing Arts Disney Junior Live on Tour: Costume Palooza Sep 8, 2022 Texas Performing Arts SW!NG OUT Sep 16, 2022 Texas Performing Arts Hadestown Sep 20 – 25, 2022 Texas Performing Arts Social Fabric: Art and Activism in Contemporary Brazil Sep 23, 2022 – Mar 10, 2023 Visual Arts Center Makuyeika Colectivo Teatral — Andares Sep 24, 2022 Texas Performing Arts Virginia Grise & Martha Gonzalez Oct 17 – 21, 2022 Texas Performing Arts View All Events COVID-19 Updates in the College of Fine Arts Learn more about how we're Protecting Texas Together → Arts Next Magazine Arts Next, the official magazine of the College of Fine Arts, showcases the latest innovations, work and research created by students and faculty. Read the latest issue of Arts Next → 2022 Commencement Watch 2022 Commencement Livestream → Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader