Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search Updates to safety procedures in the College of Fine Arts Friday, September 15, 2017 Editor's Note: This page will be updated as new information is released. Updated September 2019 The College of Fine Arts, with the university, is working to improve and refine security and safety protocols on The University of Texas at Austin campus. Below are some important resources that we want all students, staff and faculty to be aware of to help keep you safe on campus. Evening Transportation Programs Every member of the UT Austin community can get free rides on LYFT through the new Parking and Transportation Services program called UT Night Rides. Registered participants can request a ride from main campus to residential locations only including: homes, apartments, condos, and private dorms located in certain areas off campus, between the hours of 11 p.m. and 4 a.m., seven days per week. Locations served will mirror current UT Shuttles routes for West Campus, Far West, Lake Austin, North Riverside, Lake Shore, Crossing Place, Red River, and Intramural Fields. To participate, download the Lyft app for your phone. The address you use to register must match the address in official university directory. The SURE Walk program operates Monday to Sunday from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. (For help, call 512-232-9255.) Parking and Transportation Services offers low-cost night permits for students, staff and faculty members to make it easier to park close to campus at night. If a student, staff or faculty member needs a van ride on campus, they should call 512-471-4441, Option 9. The vans are available from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m., seven days a week. These changes complement the UT Shuttle System, which operates until 11 p.m. every day during semesters except Saturday. Security Guard Patrol The College of Fine Arts continues to provide dedicated security guards from Allied Secruity to patrol all Fine Arts buildings between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m., seven days a week (with the exception of University Holidays). When there is no patrol and buildings are closed, unsupervised students will not have access to the building. Security guard officers are unarmed, dressed in informal security attire, and easily identified as Allied Security guards. Their job is to make sure only authorized students, faculty and guests are present in COFA buildings at night as they walk between Fine Arts buildings and visit key areas within each building, creating a gentle, unobtrusive presence for our students, staff and faculty. College of Fine Arts building access and lanyards In alignment with UT’s “Your ID is Your Key” campaign, students in our buildings must wear COFA-identifiable lanyards—containing their UTID and distributed free to all COFA students and faculty—when in our buildings after 10 p.m. Security guard officers will be looking for this visible ID. If you don’t have a lanyard, you should have your UT ID with you and be prepared to present it to a security guard if asked. These lanyards also provide useful emergency phone numbers. Landscape Across Campus DPS and University staff are working to reduce vegetation to provide better security and visibility throughout specific areas of the campus, while maintaining enough vegetation to prevent dangerous erosion. To that end, Landscape Services has initiated a project to remove invasive species from the Waller Creek bed (similar to the project going on in the health district) and stabilize the banks with more sustainable, native plants. The first phase of this project near the Winship Building, and removal of these plans has improved visibility and sightlines across the creek. Security Assessment The UT campus underwent a security assessment by the Texas Department of Public Safety, and the University has pledged to implement changes recommended by DPS. For the latest campus safety updates and to learn more about safety resources at UT, please visit the Be Safe website. Join the parent organization Safehorns.org Please visit this page on the Be Safe website to learn more about the latest safety updates on campus. TAGS College of Fine Arts SHARE Back to top All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Social Media Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader