Skip to main content. Skip to navigation. Skip to navigation. APPLY GET INVOLVED Search this Website Search COVID-19 Updates in the College of Fine Arts What to do if you have symptoms, tested positive or been exposed to COVID-19 Any individual who has been exposed to COVID 19, who has a a fever (>99.6), or is experiencing COVID 19 symptoms should not enter any building. Testing is widely available at UT Austin and also an effective tool for preventing the spread of COVID. Here is where to go for asymptomatic PCT tests and where to get tested if you are symptomatic. Please see the UT Austin's COVID-19 Exposure Action Chart for guidance on what to do if you test positive or have been exposed to COVID-19. If you are a student and receive a positive COVID-19 test at any facility that is not University Health Services or UT Health Austin, please report your test result to the Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) at 512-232-5050 or via their self-report form. If you are a faculty or staff member and test positive, please report your test result to Occupational Health Program (OHP). Updates about events and programming Please browse our event calendar for the latest information on events and programming. Information for current students Student advising Fine Arts Academic Advisors work a hybrid, on-campus/off-campus schedule during operation hours. All students can contact their departmental advisor about setting up an individual appointment. Most advising appointments will remain virtual via Zoom, with potential in-person options depending on department. Academic processes Students wishing to drop a course from the current semester can submit a Q-drop request via our new digital Q-Drop Request Form. If students need to withdraw, add a class, change an elective course to pass/fail status, or needs any academic or non-academic support, they can reach out to Fine Arts Student Affairs at cofastudentaffairs@austin.utexas.edu. Our team will gladly support undergraduate students with their inquiries, and can do individualized appointments by request. Fine Arts Career Services Our Fine Arts Career Services team is working remotely and ready to help support students in preparing for their careers. They are continuing to offer virtual programming and virtual advising appointments. Library access UT Libraries’ Library Access Continuity website outlines where and how to access their resources. The Fine Arts Library is closed. University resources for students Follow the university’s Protect Texas Together website for the latest updates How to take advantage of remote services from the Counseling and Mental Health Center FAQ for graduate students How to get tested for or vaccinated against COVID-19 Connect with fellow Longhorns via Longhorn Connection Information for prospective students Prospective undergraduate students are encouraged to register for an in-person tour or virtual info session. Please contact cofaadmissions@austin.utexas.edu if you have any questions. Information for faculty and staff Travel Policy Current university travel policy is available online. Resources Staff updates and resources for working remotely Instructional Continuity Resources Faculty resources from the COFA Office of Instructional Continuity Mail All COFA units are now receiving mail deliveries directly from Document Solutions 2-3 times weekly, so faculty and staff may start using your buildings mail codes once again. Please refrain from using the Campus Distribution Services address 2706 Montopolis Drive as your packages will get sent to DFA and will be delayed. Library Access UT Libraries’ Library Access Continuity website outlines where and how to access their resources. Additional department-specific information Department of Theatre and Dance internal wiki Building access Our buildings are open during normal hours at this time. Building - Entries and Exits and Alarms Entries and exits will vary in each building and signage needs to be followed. If permissible, the celebrated entrance should serve as the primary entrance point with other doors to be used as exits. Building Access Controls – BACS – will be monitored by the respective building managers. Health & Safety Masking recommendations We strongly recommend wearing masks inside our buildings, and we encourage you to follow CDC masking recommendations. Vaccines and Boosters We strongly recommend getting vaccinated and getting boosted. You can schedule an appointment on campus for both vaccines and booster shots. Proactive Community Testing We encourage all faculty, staff and students to participate regularly in the free Proactive Community Testing offered by the University to detect asymptomatic cases. Please review the most up-to-date testing schedule on the University Health Services website to make an appointment or locate a walk-up location. (If you are symptomatic, please sign up for an appointment with UHS' testing site for symptomatic individuals.) Back to top See the latest COVID-19 updates for The University of Texas at Austin Who We Are Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Mission and Vision Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fine Arts Diversity Strategic Plan Fine Arts Diversity Council About FADC Fine Arts Diversity Committee Members FADC Early History Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives FADC Guest Artist Initiatives Proposal FADC Student Project Support Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Resources Directory Department of Art and Art History Staff & Faculty Butler School of Music Staff & Faculty Department of Theatre and Dance Staff & Faculty School of Design and Creative Technologies Staff & Faculty Texas Performing Arts Staff University of Texas at Austin Directory Campus & Community Fine Arts Student Council Donors & Friends Established Endowments The Doty Society E. William Doty Awards Previous Doty Award Recipients Advisory Council Fine Arts Parents Council What We Offer All Degrees by Area of Study Minors Minor in Arts Management and Administration UTeach Fine Arts Undergraduate Degree Guidelines and Four Year Plans Programs and Research Centers Study Abroad UT in New York CARE Counselor Safety in the College of Fine Arts Facilities Maps, Directions, and Parking Kendra Scott Center College of Fine Arts Facilities Planning Fine Arts Library Future of the Fine Arts Library FAQ about the Fine Arts Library News & Events All News Alumni in the News Arts Next Magazine All Events Past Events Social Media Careers & Outcomes Career Services Center for Creative Entrepreneurship Blog Posts Featured Articles Entrepreneurship Events Entrepreneurship Resources Guest Speakers Alumni Outcomes Alumni Outcome Data Alumni in the News Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Visit Contact Us Student Ambassador Program Admissions Events Scholarships Graduate Admissions CONTACT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean 2301 Trinity ST STOP D1400 Austin, TX 78712–1424 Reception: 512-471-1655 VISIT US The University of Texas at Austin Fine Arts – Office of the Dean Doty Fine Arts Building (DFA) 2.4 23rd Street and Trinity Street Austin, TX 78712 MAPS, DIRECTIONS, AND PARKING CONNECT INFO FOR... CURRENT STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF ALUMNI PARENTS SUPPORTERS Copyright 2022 The University of Texas at Austin Emergency Information Site Policies Web Privacy Web Accessibility PDF downloads require Adobe Reader