Home Expressive Activity Resources FAQ Skip to main content First Amendment Texas A&M University Menu First Amendment Texas A&M University Header Right Search website... Home Expressive Activity Resources FAQ First Amendment at Texas A&M Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Source: First Amendment Annotated, United States Constitution Texas A&M University is committed to being a community where the free and open exchange of ideas and information is valued, promoted, and encouraged. Fundamental to the educational mission in the State of Texas, we recognize all five First Amendment freedoms. Freedom of Speech An individual or a community may articulate their opinions and ideas without fear of retaliation, censorship, or legal sanction. Freedom of the Press The right to report news or circulate opinion without censorship from the government. The press serves the governed, not the governors. A free media functions as a watchdog that can investigate and report on government wrongdoing. Freedom of Assembly The government may not abridge the right of the people to peaceably assemble. Freedom of Religion The government may not establish a state religion or prohibit the free exercise of religion. All Americans have the right to practice their religion freely, without interference or persecution by the government. Freedom of Petition People have the right to ask the government at any level to right a wrong or correct a problem. Source: Freedom Forum Institute Take the First Amendment Scholar Quiz Site Footer Direct media inquiries related to the First Amendment, such as protests and other expressive activities, to tamunews@tamu.edu Copyright 2022 • First Amendment | Texas A&M University • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT