Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of First Year Success Main Menu In this section Orientation and Enrollment Enrollment Program Details Enrollment Essentials Cowboy Welcome Cowboy Welcome Signature Events Your First Year Family Resources Our Team Home Your First Year Your First Year Your Success Begins with ConnectionsIn First Year Success, we believe you can achieve your goals. Life at OSU is different than your time at home in high school or at a junior or community college. Our staff is here to help you connect with the right people on campus to be successful. We focus on helping you thrive in these key areas: academic success, making campus connections and creating healthy financial habits. Contact Us! To talk to a campus connection coach or financial planning coach, call 405-744-5601 or email fys@okstate.edu. Our Team Campus Connection Coaches Create your community on campus. Campus connection coaches provide guidance and help you connect with other students, faculty and staff. They offer training workshops, social events, peer mentoring and personalized success plans. Meet our Coaches! Financial Planning Coaches Create your financial plan for college. We assist you with financial strategies to pay for college and to reduce your anxiety about college finances - including overcoming financial setbacks. FYS works in collaboration with the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid to ensure you have access to financial support to fund your education.. Meet our Coaches! First-Generation Cowboys FYS is here to support and serve students who identify as first-generation. First Year Success cares about the experience of first-generation students and strives to create a supportive environment for all to succeed. Success at OSU starts with your first year. The Office of First Year Success is dedicated to supporting students by connecting them to tools for academic success, making campus connections and creating healthy financial habits. Learn more Money Talks Series The Financial Planning Coaches (FPC) will host several events discussing a wide range of topics from "Paying for College" to "Banking and Credit" designed to set you up for financial success during your time at OSU and beyond. Not available during an event? Schedule a time to meet with your FPC to go over your financial wellness anytime here: Meet our Coaches! Money Talks Cowboy Connections Cowboy Connections is a great way for freshmen to have a home-base during their freshman year. The Campus Connection Coaches (CCC) from First Year Success can assist you with getting familiar with campus and knowing the resources available to you. Cowboy Connections Finding Your Fit.With more than 500 student organizations we have a home for you! Whether you're looking for connections in your major, college or interests, there's a group for you. The Office of Leadership and Campus Life is home to campuswide leadership initiatives and organizations. You can visit CampusLink, the student organization portal, to find a group or groups based on your interests. If you can't find an organization, we will help you can create your own. Visit CampusLink Friendly Faculty and staff Some of the most important relationships you can build are with campus professionals. They're industry and subject matter experts! They host office hours, study sessions, advising on classes and can help you succeed. Learn more about that relationship and how it can benefit you. LEARN MORE Paying for College We work in collaboration with the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid to address immediate monetary needs for you through financial education and counseling. In addition, we help you with financial literacy, strategies to overcome financial setbacks and mapping out plans for funding your education. We book appointments regularly for one on one financial planning. Steps to paying for college There are several steps you should follow related to scholarships and loans to cover your college costs. Learn more in the guide. How to pay Once on campus, your bill(s) will be distributed by the Office of the Bursar. This office bills and collects tuition, fees, campus housing and other university charges, as well as processes and disburses all federal and campus-based funds and refunds overpayment. Paying for College Worksheet The Paying for College Worksheet can be used to help estimate costs and prepare you for the investment of your education. Please contact a Financial Planning Coach with questions. Financial Planning Coaches Financial planning coaches can assist you with creating a budget, establishing healthy financial habits and accessing financial resources available from the university. Academic Preview Your academic journey is your No. 1 reason for being at OSU. We want you to succeed and graduate in four years. Learn more about the process of picking a major, receiving advising help, academic deadlines and tutoring or support. Educational aspects: Choosing a major with MyMajors AssessmentWhat/Who is an advisor?Academic calendar and deadlinesTransferring credits to OSUAcademic support resources and tutoring Mentor Collective Invested in your success The Mentor Collective program enhances the new student experience by linking first-year students one-on-one with a peer mentor. Students are paired with someone invested in their success — a person ready to listen, inspire, help navigate challenges and recognize opportunities. Learn More Home Back To Top Back To Top Office of First Year Success First Year Success 321 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-3636 | fys@okstate.edu Follow US Refer a first year student Facebook Twitter Instagram Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©