Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Orientation myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Register Prepare Attend Parents and Guests Post-Orientation checklist Your first year Select to follow link Hawk Week Academics Select to follow link First-year programs Exploring majors Earning your degree Campus life Select to follow link Parking & Transit Housing & Dining Employment Finding your community Health and Support Select to follow link Health and recreation Campus security Academic Resources Info for International Students Graduate Students Edwards Students Law School Students Medical Center Campus Students Pharmacy Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Orientation Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU ORIENTATION After putting in the work and earning admission, you’ll attend freshman Orientation. There, you’ll connect with other new Jayhawks and campus resources, get a closer look at your first year, and enroll in classes with your advisor. Register for Orientation Ready to register? Select an in-person session and learn the requirements and deadlines. Register Prepare for Orientation Your KU degree path begins with enrollment. To prepare for your advising appointment, you’ll need to submit the right documents and complete online coursework. Prepare Attend Orientation See your Orientation schedule, review what’s needed, and plan for your session. Look ahead Post-Orientation checklist After Orientation, you’ll have a checklist of action items to prepare for your first year. See next steps Preview your first year Hawk Week Your first week at KU is a campuswide celebration. See what’s in store for your official Jayhawk welcome. Go to Hawk Week Academics Break down the elements of a KU education, major exploration, and the resources to help you earn your degree. Go to Academics Campus life In the day-to-day, you’ll find a campus to explore, and a community to call your own. Go to campus life Health and support As a Jayhawk, you’ll excel and be well, thanks to KU’s many health and personal support services. Go to health and support Other Orientation events Orientation is a pivotal moment for all Jayhawks, including those beyond their first year. You may need to attend a session specific to your background, program, or level of study. International Graduate Edwards Law School Medical Center Campus Masks and COVID-19 campus protocols If you feel more comfortable wearing a mask on campus, you are free to do so. Masks are optional in nearly all spaces on campus, with the exception of clinical spaces. Procedures and policies are updated when needed. Get informed about our current protocols: See COVID guidance Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave., Room 315 Lawrence, KS 66045-7601 orientation@ku.edu 785-864-4270 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin About Staff Academics Safety Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.