Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Office of First Year Success Main Menu In this section Orientation and Enrollment Enrollment Program Details Enrollment Essentials Cowboy Welcome Cowboy Welcome Signature Events Your First Year Family Resources Our Team Home Cowboy Welcome Cowboy Welcome Your First Days on CampusWelcome to the Cowboy family. We can’t wait to see you on campus for Cowboy Welcome beginning with your move-in. Cowboy Welcome takes place before the fall semester begins and will provide you with a week of fun-filled experiences, an opportunity to make new friends and discover your beautiful campus and local community. Our goal is to provide you with a meaningful welcome to your new campus and community. We hope you will take full advantage of this time before classes begin to make new friends and learn about the resources around you. Cowboy Welcome 2022 Once you have enrolled in classes, RSVP for Cowboy Welcome 2022 here! Meet your fellow new Cowboys and explore all OSU has to offer at Cowboy Welcome, August 17-21! Your T-Shirt is on us, but we need your size! Make sure you select your size when you RSVP. RSVP Cowboy Welcome Guidebook App #okstate26 The Cowboy Welcome 2022 Guidebook App is coming soon! You'll be able to find the full list of events and even create a custom schedule! Have All the Fun!Take a look at all the fun our students had during past Cowboy Welcome events. You can ride a tricyle through an obstacle course with special glasses and learn about the dangers of driving under the influence in a safe and fun environment. At the Rock the Block event, you can meet several new and exotic animals at the petting zoo. The Department of Wellness offers you several opportunities to unwind and cool off at Rock the Block event at the Colvin Wellness Center. Graduating in four years is something you should strive for. Listen to peers and administrators as they inspire you to complete your degree at Convocation. Make new friends and meet up with old ones as you attend different Cowboy Welcome events. At the Library House Party, you can explore the floors and make new friends over games and other activities. In addition to new friends, meet with members of Pete's Pet Posse, OSU's pet therapy program that can help when you're missing your special four-legged friend from home. Learn and sing our fight songs and the state song of Oklahoma during Convocation. Activities are endless. From the Library House Party to the Rock the Block event, there is plenty for you to do before classes begin. You should never miss an opportunity to get a selfie with Pistol Pete! What is Cowboy Welcome? Cowboy Welcome is the official OSU welcome to our newest incoming students for the Fall of 2022. It is a week full of fun activities and events designed to get students connected to campus and to their peers before classes start. When is Cowboy Welcome? Cowboy Welcome 2022 starts on Wednesday, August 17th and goes through Sunday, August 21st. Classes start Monday, August 22nd. What does Cowboy Welcome cost? Nothing! Cowboy Welcome is absolutely free for all students! How do I sign up for Cowboy Welcome? You can sign up after enrolling for classes during your New Student Orientation session OR after your orientation program on our website. What are signature events? Signature Events are our largest events throughout the week that we invite every new Poke to attend. They showcase some of the best things campus has to offer regardless of your major or classification! Where is Cowboy Welcome? Cowboy Welcome takes place across campus. We will be located in the Student Union Building all day to help you check-in, pick up your free Cowboy Welcome t-shirt and get more information about the week! Where is the Cowboy Welcome schedule? The official schedule with all event options will be located through the Guidebook App. The link to download the app can be found on our main Cowboy Welcome page. Is Cowboy Welcome for me? Yes! Cowboy Welcome has events for all students. When you download the Guidebook App take a look at our many categories for specific events you may be interested in. Will Cowboy Welcome fit my schedule? Yes! All Cowboy Welcome events are designed so that you can attend whichever events fit your schedule and needs. Home Back To Top Back To Top Office of First Year Success First Year Success 321 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-3636 | fys@okstate.edu Follow US Refer a first year student Facebook Twitter Instagram Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©