Skip to Main Content For coronavirus information for the UCLA community, please visit the Ashe Center website and UCLA’s information page. Search WebsiteSearch Search WebsiteSearch About Mission Student Stories Campus Demographics First-Gen Advisory Board News and Press Meet the Staff Remote Learning Programs First-Gen Faculty Initiative First To Go LLC Past Events For Undergraduates Academic Counseling Campus Resources Graduate School Application Timelines Financial Aid & Scholarships First Year Experience Student Affairs Housing Undergraduate Education For Graduate Students First-Generation Graduate Student Council First-Gen at DG School of Medicine 1st Generation Latinx First Generation Law Students Association For Parents Transitioning to College Parent & Family Programs For Alumni Subscribe to Alumni Newsletter First Gen Alumni Network Alumni Facebook Group Welcome First-Gen Bruins! Housed under the First Year Experience, First To Go promotes campus involvement and visibility with a focus on the retention and success of all first-generation college students at UCLA. We are here to serve as a resource hub to assist current UCLA undergraduate students as they navigate the campus and provide support in building community. Being first-generation college is an accomplishment that should be celebrated! First To Go is open to any undergraduate or graduate/professional student at any time. Note: for our program, a “first-generation college student” is identified as a student whose parent/guardian have not received a four-year U.S. bachelor's degree. Want to stay up-to-date on first-gen specific resources, job opportunities, internships, volunteer opportunities and First To Go events? Join the First To Go Listserv! Click here to join the UCLA First-Generation Students Facebook Group and follow on Instagram @ucla_firstgen. From First-Gen to UCLA Faculty First-Gen Class of 2020 Upcoming Events Loading events... Photos Check out our upcoming programs! Joe and Josie Bruin welcome all First-Gen Bruins! Chancellor Gene Block showing his First-Gen pride! Do you remember when you received your acceptance letter to UCLA? Follow us on Instagram @ucla_firstgen to stay connected! First-Gen Graduate Bruins Spotlight: Jordan Patricio UCLA Campus Free Printing First-Gen Graduate Student Community Mixer Contact First To Go Join the First To Go Newsletter Email: firsttogo@orl.ucla.edu Phone: (310) 983-3022 Office: (temporarily closed) 205 Bradley Hall, Box 951375 Los Angeles, CA 90095-1375 Stay in the know Facebook Group Instagram @ucla_firstgen \n Accessibility \n UCLA \n Student Affairs \n Maps, Directions, Parking \n Academic Calendar \n University of California \n Terms of Use \n