Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Find Your People Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Our Commitment to You Meet the Staff The First-Year Five Meet the Faculty Experiences New Student Orientation First-Year Seminars NTC Reading Project Residential Faculty Mentors Faculty Conversation Partners First-Year Leadership Your First Year Stories from the First-Year Find Your People Your Communities Your City Your Mentors First-Year Honors Scholars Dates & Deadlines Before You Arrive Happening Now Leadership Applications Resources Academic Resources Social Resources Campus Services Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... FIRST-YEAR EXPERIENCE Welcome Class of 2026! Tulane is a place of great possibility. As a student at Tulane, you have the opportunity to define yourself as a scholar under the guidance of some of the best faculty and staff. There are few places in the world where you can receive as rigorous, challenging, and complete an education as you will at Tulane. Welcome home. The Office of First-Year Experience is your conduit to the many supportive faculty, staff, peers, and offices awaiting you. Look around to learn more about how you can make the best of your first year at Tulane. Our Challenge to You In New Orleans, we never shy away from a challenge, and your first year at Tulane should be no different. Through the support of faculty, staff, and peer leaders, we encourage you to: be advenTUrous in the classes and faculty you take; positions you apply for, lectures you attend, and clubs you join; goals you set; foods, museums, festivals, and parades you try. be ThoUghtful in how you plan and prepare for your 4+ years at Tulane; speak for yourself and to others; engage as a citizen of campus and New Orleans; build and grow relationships. be TenacioUs in your advocacy of self and others; willingness to fail and reevaluate; search for your place and people; desire to push beyond the comfortable; most significant beliefs. Get advice from the First Year Five, five sophomores documenting the adventures, experiences, and challenges in their first year, on how to be the best you at TU! Friends of the First Year Campus-wide, there is a team of staff, faculty, and peer leaders eager to make your first year the best it can be. Learn about some of the people and offices ready to support you in our student guide. Friends of the First-Year Each student is assigned to one of seven Success Coaches, staff who are specially-trained to support you in achieving your goals. Peer Mentors are attached to each First-Year Seminar to support you in your academic and social transition to Tulane Each first-year residence hall includes a group of Residential Faculty, professors focused on fostering a rich academic life outside of the classroom Whether you identify as a student of color, honors scholar, international student, or all three, Tulane supports you in finding your people Every student is assigned to one of 30+ Academic Advisors who empower students to make informed decisions on their academic and career plans Tulane has over 250 clubs and organizations to encourage you to dive into an already established interest or try something completely new Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University