Skip to content MUSEUM IS CURRENTLY CLOSED FOR SUMMER 2022. USC Toggle search interface Search Search Site Close search interface Menu Toggle extended navigation USC Fisher Museum of Art Visit Us Neighborhood Visitor Policies Plan Your Event Events Calendar Exhibitions Current & Upcoming Virtual Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Press Releases Collections Google Arts & Culture Recently Acquired Elizabeth Holmes Fisher Collection Armand Hammer Collection 20th and 21st Centuries Collections Jenny Holzer: Blacklist Dr. Eugene Rogolsky Collection Display and Access Campus Loan Program 1000Museums International Museum Institute (IMI) Public Events and Seminars Collaborations Getty and IMI Museum Matters Project Remix: Changing Conversations in Museums of the Americas Publications Blog About Staff Museum Advisory Board In the News Giving More Menu Toggle extended navigation Aquí y Allá A Virtual Exhibition Series Featuring Artists from the Fisher Museum Permanent Collection! Virtual Exhibitions Explore our guided tours, 360° gallery experiences, and online exhibitions! Permanent Collection Discover selections from USC Fisher Museum of Art’s permanent collection. Join Our Newsletter * indicates required Email Address * First Name * Last Name * Recent Twitter Posts Tweets by fishermuseum Recent Instagram Posts Calendar of Events Plan Your Visit CLOSED SUMMER 2022 Reopening September 6, 2022 Go Metro! We are located just a few steps away from Metro Expo Line’s Expo Park/USC station! For current fares and times, visit LA Metro. Parking Enter campus at Exposition Blvd. and Watt Way. Inquire with attendant for directions to closest parking facility. Parking for the day is $14. USC Fisher Museum of Art 823 S Exposition Blvd HAR 126, MC 0381 Los Angeles, CA 90089 Phone: 213-740-4561 Fax: 213-740-7676 Email: fmoa@usc.edu Contact Us More Events Discover USC Fisher Museum of Art, the first museum established in the city of Los Angeles that was opened as an art museum and remains solely dedicated to the exhibition and collection of fine art in its original location. More About Us Collections Exhibitions In the News Visits Us Google Arts & Culture Vimeo University of Southern California Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Content managed by Fisher Museum Facebook Instagram Twitter Close Menu Search Visit UsOpen submenu Neighborhood Visitor Policies Plan Your Event Events Calendar ExhibitionsOpen submenu Current & Upcoming Virtual Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Press Releases CollectionsOpen submenu Google Arts & Culture Recently Acquired Elizabeth Holmes Fisher Collection Armand Hammer Collection 20th and 21st Centuries Collections Jenny Holzer: Blacklist Dr. Eugene Rogolsky Collection Display and Access Campus Loan Program 1000Museums International Museum Institute (IMI)Open submenu Public Events and Seminars Collaborations Getty and IMI Museum Matters Project Remix: Changing Conversations in Museums of the Americas Publications Blog AboutOpen submenu Staff Museum Advisory Board In the News Giving