Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Student Affairs Search this site Submit Search Menu About Undergraduates Incoming Frosh FLI-SO LSP & SSEA Current Students Financial Support 2020-2021 Financial Support Programs Hemlock Scholars Mentorship Transfer Students Transfer Credits Contacts Programs & Resources Community Building Advising and Academic Support FLIibrary FLI Zoom Background Graduate Students Grant In Aid Additional Financial Support Mailing List Needs Assessment Past Events Financial Support Opportunity Fund Summer Equity Grant Financial Receipts Financial Literacy: Understanding Your Award Letter Calfresh Family & Parents FLI Family Connections Events Main content start Welcome! Dear Community, Welcome to Spring Quarter! We are so excited to be finishing up the year with lots of in person events! From karaoke parties to study nights, the FLI office provides lots of spaces for you to meet friends and learn about the resources we offer! Events Our opening hours are 10 AM - 5 PM on the 2nd floor of Old Union 200. Come visit us! More Ways to Connect Want to stay up to date with important information and events happening in the FLI Office? Fill out this google form to join our mailing list! To contact the FLI office feel free to email stanfordfli@stanford.edu or connect with a professional staff member directly via email or by setting up an appointment using the links below: Symone Morales - asmorale@stanford.edu - https://calendly.com/symonemorales Jennifer Rolen - jrolen@stanford.edu - https://go.oncehub.com/jrole Marcel Hite - mhite@stanford.edu - https://calendly.com/marcelhite Adriena Brown - adriena@stanford.edu - https://calendly.com/adriena With love, FLI Office Staff xoxo University COVID-19 updates can be found here Donate Need financial support? Check out the Opportunity Fund Get involved with the FLI Community Stanford First-Gen and/or Low Income (FLI) Web Login Stanford Facebook FLI Instagram Links to Stanford Home Page Resources for Financial Aid Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top