Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures About Contact Us FLL Notes History People Faculty and Staff Alumni Translators Why Study Foreign Languages and Literatures Study Abroad Scholarships Alumni Profiles and Testimonies Undergraduate Student Advising Arabic Studies Asian Language: Chinese, Hindi-Urdu, and Japanese Classical Studies English as a Second Language Foreign Language Education French German Studies Italian Studies Persian Portuguese Russian Studies Spanish World Literatures Language Exchange Syllabi Graduate Application Information Plans of Study French and Francophone Studies Concentration Spanish Concentration & Tracks TESOL Concentration Courses Syllabi Accelerated BA/MA Culminating Project Forms and Steps to Graduation Certifications Frequently Asked Questions Additional Information Think and Do Language Training Center VOLAR Spanish Certifications Dialogues A Contracorriente Journal A Contracorriente Press Give Now About People Why Study Foreign Languages and Literatures Undergraduate Graduate Think and Do Full Site Navigation About Contact Us FLL Notes History People Faculty and Staff Alumni Translators Why Study Foreign Languages and Literatures Study Abroad Scholarships Alumni Profiles and Testimonies Undergraduate Student Advising Arabic Studies Asian Language: Chinese, Hindi-Urdu, and Japanese Classical Studies English as a Second Language Foreign Language Education French German Studies Italian Studies Persian Portuguese Russian Studies Spanish World Literatures Language Exchange Syllabi Graduate Application Information Plans of Study French and Francophone Studies Concentration Spanish Concentration & Tracks TESOL Concentration Courses Syllabi Accelerated BA/MA Culminating Project Forms and Steps to Graduation Certifications Frequently Asked Questions Additional Information Think and Do Language Training Center VOLAR Spanish Certifications Dialogues A Contracorriente Journal A Contracorriente Press A World of Possibilities Learn a new language. Learn a new culture. Studying with us is the first step to removing boundaries and pushing limits. Become a student of the world. Why FLL?‌ Ready to start your journey? Apply now Our mission is to help students not only become proficient in a foreign language, but to think critically about the world and immerse themselves in new cultures. We’ll encourage you to travel, study abroad, conduct research and embrace diversity. By studying in NC State's Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures, you won’t just learn about different ways of life. You’ll live them! Congrats, 2022 Graduates and Award Recipients! You are the bright future of a global society. Our department can't wait to see how you continue to think and do. Student Award Recpients‌ COVID-19 Resources Practice Your Language at Home Check out these podcasts, apps, videos and websites. Many of them are fun and free! Learn More » Resources for the Semester Check out these helpful links for students who need internet access for the semester. Learn More » Online Language Exchange Take Languages within the North Carolina system UNC Online‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Project Go at NC State Project Global Officer, a language program funded by the Department of Defense, promotes critical language education, a study abroad experience and intercultural dialogue opportunities for ROTC students. Sign up for the first webinar (November 17, 2020, 3:00 PM ET) for 2021 applicants here Learn more‌ Foreign Languages and Literatures News More Stories Events Submit an Event‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Foreign Languages and Literatures Events‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ NC State Academic Calendar‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌ Humanities and Social Sciences Foreign Languages and Literatures 310 Withers Hall, Campus Box 8106, Raleigh, NC 27695-8106 919.515.2475 Humanities and Social Sciences NC State Accessibility Resources for Faculty and Staff Main Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.