Skip to Main Content Brown University Center for Fluid Mechanics Search Menu Site Navigation Home People Graduate & Postdoctoral Study Seminars Past Seminars Departments & Collaborators Contact Search Center for Fluid Mechanics Graduate and Postdoctoral Study Learn about applying for the Ph.D. program and for post-doctoral positions in Fluids@Brown. Graduate and Postdoctoral Study Learn about applying for the Ph.D. program and for post-doctoral positions in Fluids@Brown. Admission Prospective graduate Ph.D. students should submit applications to the Graduate School, choosing the department or school that best matches their goals and background. The selection process is very competitive. The choice of department will affect issues such as degree requirements and qualifying or preliminary examinations. Brown does encourage cross-disciplinary research and students will often take courses outside their own department and may collaborate with a second advisor in another department. Post-doctoral Study For positions as post-doctoral associates, please contact individual faculty based on the relevant research area. More generally, post-doctoral opportunities exist at ICERM or through the Prager Assistant Professorships offered in the Division of Applied Mathematics. Students interested in the Sc.M. programs should look at the web sites for the department or school that best matches their goals and background for further information. School of Engineering Brown University's School of Engineering educates future leaders in the fundamentals of engineering in an environment of world-class research. Division of Applied Mathematics The Division of Applied Mathematics at Brown University focuses its research and teaching on a wide range of areas from applied and algorithmic problems to the study of fundamental mathematical questions. Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University's Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences hosts research and teaching on many topics in geophysical fluid dynamics, including: oceanography, atmospheric sciences, climate modeling, hydrology, volcanism, geodynamics, multiphase and debris flows, and cryosphere and mantle dynamics. ICERM The Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics is a National Science Foundation funded mathematics research institute located at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home People Graduate & Postdoctoral Study Seminars Past Seminars Departments & Collaborators Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate and Postdoctoral Study Open details for Graduate and Postdoctoral Study Bookmark this Page