Skip Navigation University Mailing Services Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks UMS Home General FAQ Faculty/Staff Mail FAQ Addressing Dept Mail Services UMS Track/Hold Request Campus Ship Account Request Barcode Label Order Student Mail FAQ UMS Tracking Assistance Addressing Student Mail Student Package Delivery Policy Shipping Track a Package Order Supplies Lost & Damaged Departments Customer Service Financial Assistance Express Ground/Air Services Fulfillment Letter Shop/Bulk Mail Processing Mail Sort & Delivery Mailing Services USPS Contract Station Contact Us Contact Us Facebook Us University Mailing Services has moved University Mailing Services has moved to make way for OSU’s New Frontiers Agricultural Hall. UMS’ new location is at 601 N. Willis St., just off Hall of Fame near OSU Facilities Management. A portion of what was Warehouse 5 has been renovated and customized into a mailing center. The building was renamed University Mailing Services at the April 23 meeting of the OSU/A&M Board of Regents. Renee Smith, director of Facilities Management Business Operations, said the new location will provide several benefits. “We are excited about this new, permanent location,” she said. “The location will be easier to find, especially for our large off-campus student population and the Stillwater community. There will also be more parking and it will reduce congestion in the heart of campus.” University Mailing Services is a Certified Postal Unit. It provides all the same services as a United States Post Office and can pick up and deliver mail, both personal and business, in the 74077 and 74078 zip codes. UMS also has access to other carriers such as UPS, FedEx and DHL. UMS can provide customers with the best price for shipping from those providers, at the university’s contracted price, and UMS carries their shipping supplies. “This allows us to be your one-stop shop, whether it’s for your personal mail, professional mail or for your shipping needs,” Smith said. University Mailing Services tailors service for employees and students. University addresses are typically designated by building name and not by street, unlike off-campus addresses. Many buildings on campus are inconvenient to access from a road, and addresses can be difficult to find for anyone not familiar with campus. “We serve as a level of protection for our university,” said Darren Stormont, manager of Procurement Services. “We scan each package when it arrives on campus and then again when it’s delivered. If there’s a mishap — say, if a student has moved to a different residential life building — we can look up student addresses because we are employees of the university. We retrieve the package and redeliver to make sure our students and employees get their packages as quickly as possible.” For students and employees, UMS also offers outbound business package invoicing to departmental funds and outbound personal package invoicing to bursar accounts or personal credit cards. UMS staff also protect the campus community by monitoring for suspicious mail and parcels, involving the OSU Police Department when necessary. As a Certified Postal Facility, UMS provides the following services to OSU and Stillwater on behalf of USPS: Post Office box rentals Selling postage stamps in books or rolls. The University Store in the Student Union is working with UMS, and books of stamps are available for purchase. There is a mail drop box just outside the University Store for mailing convenience as well. Providing USPS mailing information Confirmation services including certified and registered mail. Passport application processing Free consultation on federal regulations when sending hazardous goods Shipment hold requests — hold at UMS for pick-up The Last Pond Passport Office services are by appointment only Notary Information Shipping with Endicia Ship Tickets for USPS Shipments Click on the above link to find the information your department needs to know to ship with Endicia ship tickets USPS Campus Post Office Post Master, Trudy Simank, is now a Notary Public and offers free Notary Public services for the Oklahoma State University. Student Desk Top Mail and Small Parcel Delivery Policy Update All student desk top mail, defined as metered or stamped mail, is delivered by University Mailing Services (UMS) to residential halls the same day it is received from the United States Postal Service (exception below). Once desk top mail has been tendered to each residence hall, residential hall personnel sort and distribute the desk top mail to students' residing at the hall. University Mailing Service does not sort and/or distribute desk top mail directly to students, unless requested. Exception to same day residence hall delivery: At Residential Life’s written request, UMS will hold all desk top mail during holiday breaks. Mail delivery services will resume on the date specified in the written request by Residential Life personnel. Small package parcels, defined as packages that are sent using a tracking number, will be delivered to each respective residence hall. In the event that the residence halls are not receiving small package parcels, provisions can be made for the student to pick up the package at UMS if the tracking number is provided and photo identification is shown at the time of package pick up. Please note the policy below regarding our pricing estimates: All DHL, FedEx, and UPS shipping prices quoted are estimates only and do not include additional fees and/or Customs Duty Fees. Also, it is our policy that if a specific domestic or international service is not selected on the OSU/UMS shipping instructions form, then we will automatically send the package by the least expensive but fastest method due to our negotiated contracts with the carriers. As always, thank you for visiting us with all of your shipping needs. We strive to make your shipping experiences simple and easy from pricing to packaging to tracking. Please call us at 405-744-5385 or email us at ums@okstate.edu with any questions that you may have. PROTIP: Please remember when selecting which shipping service you would like to use, only business days are counted when getting estimates online or in office. When sending out a Next Day Air package on Friday the next business day is Monday unless Saturday Delivery has been checked and that does have an additional charge. Please contact us with any questions that you may have to avoid later than expected deliveries. Thank you for visiting the UMS webpage and for coming to us with your shipping needs! Flat Rate Shipping 601 N. Willis St Passport Office Hours: Passport Office services are by appointment only Link to Passport Information Contact Us: 405-744-5385 Portals and Links for Google or Firefox Browsers Only NEW! WORK ORDER SYSTEM NEW! UMS REPORTS PORTAL NEW! SHIPPING WITH ENDICIA FOR USPS SHIPMENTS OSU ZIP CODE +4 UPS CAMPUS SHIP ORDER SUPPLIES APPLICATION FOR STUDENT POSITIONS WITH UMS HELPFUL LINKS FEEDBACK Join us on Facebook! Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©