Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Search Home About Intro to Folklore & Mythology Brief History of F&M Warren House Art Credits for Site Academics Advising Courses Concentration Requirements Secondary Field Swapna Dev Prize People Faculty Standing Committee Staff Current Concentrators Alumni Calendar & Events Current Calendar Symposiums & Conferences Resources Contact Potential Concentrators, Joint Concentrators, and Secondaries Click here for our Advising Page and our list of 2021 Concentration Advising Events GENED 1097: Tradition, Performance, and Culture Fall Term 2021. T & TH 9:00 - 10:15pm EST. For more information contact Professor Stephen Mitchell FM 133. Supernatural Storytelling: Ghost-lore, Occult Legends, and the Politics of the Paranormal Fall Term 2021. Wed 7-9pm, Warren House. For more information contact Dr. Lowell Brower: labrower@fas.harvard.edu. FOLKMYTH 111: Folklore of Food Fall Term 2021. Mon & Wed 12:00-1:15pm. For more information contact Prof. Joseph Nagy FM 176. Tattoo: Histories and Practices Fall Term 2021. Wed, 3:00 - 5:00pm, Warren House 102. For more information contact Dr. Felicity Lufkin. Summer Research Devi Lockwood '14 bicycled the Mississippi River Trail, collecting folktales for her senior project. Tere Tohorā Tere Tangata: Where Whales Journey People Follow Image from the thesis of Carolina Lowe '12, on the role of whales in Maori folklore in New Zealand. Upside Down & Inside Out F&M symposium held on 4/13/13, including a performance by Big Nazo. FM150: Internet Folklore, Online Communities, and Digital Storytelling Spring Term 2022. For more information contact Dr. Lowell Brower: labrower@fas.harvard.edu. Yemaya Afro-Cuban Orisha Dance Anna Walters '06 performs at symposium "Legends of Landscape, Narratives of Nature" GENED 1097. Tradition, Performance, and Culture Fall Term 2021. T & Th 9:00 - 10:15 am. For more information contact Professor Stephen Mitchell Harvard 'Haunts' F&M students learn local legends and seek supernatural experiences on a Cambridge ghost tour Welcome! The concentration in Folklore and Mythology is a liberal education in itself, and although most graduates of the program go on to successful careers in medicine, law, business, journalism, and other pursuits, an unusually large number of our alumni and alumnae teach and conduct research in a variety of academic departments. This concentration focuses on the study of society, past or present, through its cultural documents and artifacts, and uses a variety of methodologies drawn from the humanities and social sciences. To concentrate on a society's folklore and mythology (at local, regional, national, or even trans-national levels) is to understand how that society defines itself through through its myths, legends, epics, ballads, folktales, beliefs and other cultural phenomena including music, food, dance, drama, dress, rituals, festival celebrations, and everyday expressive practices. To study the folklore and mythology of any group is to discover how that group identifies itself in relation to others. Founded in 1967 and the oldest undergraduate degree program in the field in this country, Folklore and Mythology at Harvard has produced many distinguished graduates. Students often form mutually supportive groups; student-faculty contact is by tradition — and structure — very close; and collegiality within the program is highly valued. Concentrators conduct independent research on the material, oral, written, or performed forms of folklore and mythology in their areas of specialization, which range greatly across time and space. (More…) "My professional goals are to make sense of nonsense, find a rationale for the irrational, and seek to make the unconscious conscious." (Alan Dundes) "Cultures are, after all, collective, untidy assemblages authentificated by belief and agreement, focused only in crisis, systemitized after the fact." (Barbara Myerhoff) "Fieldwork involving other people is one of the most intensively personal kinds of scholarly research I know." (Bruce Jackson) “Folklore is the boiled-down juice, or pot-likker, of human living” (Zora Neale Hurston) F&M, An Interdisciplinary Approach to Academics & Life 50fcedc1940a85902e387edf31b8cee8 Folklore and Mythology from Michael Oliveri on Vimeo. Folk & Myth Headlines Lauren Fadiman '22 elected to Phi Beta Kappa, winning the Lucy Allen Paton Prize for excellence in the Humanities and Fine Arts Cade Williams '23 wins the American Folklore Society's 2021 William A. Wilson Prize for the best undergraduate student paper in Religious folklife and folk belief Devi Lockwood '14 publishes first book, 1001 Voices on Climate Change: Everyday Stories of Flood, Fire, Drought, and Displacement From Around the World Jaspreet Kaur '21 wins the Taliesin Prize for Distinction in the Art of Learning Audrey Pettner '21 wins the Taliesin Prize for Distinction in the Art of Learning Cecil Williams II '20 wins the Taliesin Prize for Distinction in the Art of Learning Isabel Parkey '20 elected to Phi Beta Kappa Prof. Stephen Mitchell wins 2019 Jarl Gallén Prize Professors Tatar and Gates win 2018 NAACP Image Award for "The Annotated African American Folktales" For the latest updates to the website! Tweets by @HarvardFolklore HarvardFolklore Go, Jess, go! @washingtonpost will be so lucky to have you! t.co/mSULoewyxk 3 months 2 weeks ago. HarvardFolklore Huge congratulations to F&M concentrator Cade Williams, winner of the 2021 William A. Wilson Prize, from The American Folklore Society ⁦@afsfolklorists⁩ for the best undergraduate student paper in Religious folklife and folk belief. t.co/q1FfLFMs6u 4 months 3 weeks ago. HarvardFolklore Hot off the presses: the latest issue of Oral Tradition, edited by Prof. David Elmer. Volume 35, Issue | Oral Tradition Journal t.co/FSkh6JfD86 4 months 3 weeks ago. devi_lockwood TONIGHT at 7pm ET, the virtual book tour continues! I'll be live on Zoom via @HarvardBooks in conversation with @mariamtatar. Join us? Details: t.co/eStZ4wOXpN t.co/sBgUGGvIXH 6 months 2 weeks ago. mariamtatar Looking forward to talking with cyclist Devi Lockwood about her travels and the stories she collected from all over the world about Climate Change. t.co/OnE4j7EeOC 6 months 2 weeks ago. FOLKLORE & MYTHOLOGY Barker Center, 12 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-4788 Last Updated: August 18, 2020 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement