Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content College of Agriculture & Life Sciences About Welcome to Food Science & Technology Overview: About Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Brochure Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Academic Advisors NFSC Force List Graduate Programs Graduate Brochure Graduate Programs Graduate Program Application Graduate Advising Research Research Overview Faculty Research Areas of Excellence Food Diversity Innovation Program FDIP Home IFANCA Endowment Food Diversity Certificate FDIP Inaugural Symposium Resources Current Student Resources Future Student Resources Job Postings Links Directory Faculty Graduate Students Staff Directory News FSTC News 2021 Scholarship Awards Food Science Club Giving Contact Search Search this website Welcome to Food Science & Technology Established in 2020, the Department of Food Science and Technology aspires to develop a world-class training, research, and outreach program that leads the nation in shaping the future direction of the food science profession, while innovatively meeting the current and emerging needs of stakeholders. The department is invested on unique high impact education and research programs that apply contemporary and novel technologies in food processing, food safety and quality, and sustainability. Degrees The undergraduate curriculum approved by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) offers two tracks, a Food Science Option and an Industry Option. Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Opportunities Explore various exciting opportunities available for our current and prospective students including student clubs, scholarships and career choices : Current Student Resources Future Student Resources Research Our research strengths include specialized expertise in food science technologies, encompassing food chemistry, engineering, microbiology, and processing, with an unique access to a wide array of laboratories and pilot facilities. Faculty Research Food Diversity Innovation Program Exciting News For Food Science Graduates! Insights from industry experts and surveys such as the Institute of Food Technology’s 2019 Employment and Salary Report indicate not only high demand for careers in food science, but also high level of job satisfaction within the industry. IFT’s 2019 Employment & Salary Report Positive Trends in Food Science Aggies from Food Science & Technology department have a competitive edge for positions in food industry, regulatory agencies and graduate school opportunities, with an almost 100% job or professional placement within a year of graduation. Testimonial from an employer: “I recently hired a food science graduate from Texas A&M and I am extremely impressed with her technical knowledge, work ethic, and unique ability to adapt to the ever shifting challenges of the food and flavor industry. I was so impressed with the quality of food science program that I returned a year later and recruited a second hire, this time a graduate student, and I look forward to growing my business with the help of their knowledge and enthusiasm.”- –Greg Berndt, ClearMask, Moxee, WA. Department News Congratulations to Karla and Ganga for induction into international honor societies!May 12, 2022 Gamma Sigma Delta Outstanding Ph.D. – Karla Salazar Gamma Sigma Delta Outstanding Master’s – Ganga Sah Members of the Texas A&M University Chapter of Gamma Sigma Delta, the International Honor Society of Agriculture selected two FSTC students, Karla Salazar and Ganga Sah for membership. Karla Solis Salazar received the outstanding PhD award and Ganga Sah… Read More → FSTC students recognized at the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences’ 66th annual convocationApril 12, 2022 Congratulations to Paloma Hernandez, FSTC’s 2022 “Senior Merit Award” winner and to Allison Brenner for receiving the “Outstanding Junior Award“! The Senior Merit Award is the highest award given to undergraduates by the College. Selection criteria include scholarship, community involvement, professional and civic activities, internships and employment, awards, honors and accomplishments in undergraduate research. Outstanding student awards are… Read More → Texas A&M center world leader in electron beam technologyMarch 18, 2022 Agrilife Today Feature story “We have two decades of experience in performing electron beam, or eBeam, research and finding novel applications that encourage commercial adoption of this technology,” said Suresh Pillai, Ph.D., center director in the Department of Food Science and Technology in Texas A&M’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. The eBeam center, located on the… Read More → The NAFFS scholarship recipientsDecember 9, 2021 The National Association of Flavors and Food-Ingredient Systems (NAFFS) is a broad-based trade association of manufacturers, processors and suppliers of fruits, flavors, syrups, stabilizers, emulsifiers, colors, sweeteners, cocoa and related food ingredients. NAFFS Annual Scholarship Award program was established to recognize outstanding food science students on the East and West Coasts. The program has now been… Read More → 2021 TFPA Scholarship RecipientsDecember 9, 2021 The Texas Food Processors Association (TFPA) is a non-profit trade association representing companies engaged in the production of food products. It includes those companies which provide the processors with necessary raw materials, packaging, equipment, plant layout and design services, laboratory testing, and an array of business services. The Texas Food Processors Scholarship Foundation is a… Read More → Awika new head of Texas A&M’s Department of Food Science and TechnologyNovember 16, 2021 Will lead department in further developing training, research, outreach Joseph Awika, Ph.D., is the new head of the Department of Food Science and Technology at Texas A&M University. He started Nov. 1. Awika, a professor at Texas A&M since 2008, previously led the Cereal Quality Lab within the Department of Soil and Crop Sciences in the university’s College of Agriculture and… Read More → Dr. Suresh Pillai named ASM Distinguished LecturerJuly 27, 2021 The American Society for Microbiology (“ASM”) chooses Dr. Suresh Pillai as one of its Distinguished lecturers for the ASMDL roster. Only the most distinguished lecturers and researchers are chosen through a competitive nomination process. Lecturers present at ASM Branch meetings throughout the U.S. ASMDL lecturers also participate in career development and mentoring activities at Branch meetings that… Read More → Students intern with Scan Tech in McAllenJuly 21, 2021 Three Food Science and Technology students, Gabriela Haro, Maria Trevino and Luis Vazquez, were selected to participate in a six-week internship with Scan Tech in McAllen, Texas, a company specializing in electron beam irradiation of food products to increase safety and quality. The students were assigned various projects such as international customer integration protocols, third… Read More → Haskins, Riaz receive Senior Merit AwardsApril 30, 2021 Lucas Haskins and Nooran Riaz, seniors in the Department of Food Science and Technology have received Senior Merit Awards from the Texas A&M University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Presented by the College for over 50 years, these awards recognize the best of the best graduating seniors. The selection criteria for Senior Merit Awards include… Read More → Awika Named Recipient Of 2021 IFT Award For International Food SecurityMarch 30, 2021 International Food Security Award in Honor of W.K. Kellogg and Bor S. LuhJoseph Awika is the recipient of the 2021 International Food Security Award in Honor of W.K. Kellogg and Bor S. Luh. Awika, a professor at Texas A&M since 2008, works to develop and transfer food science and technology knowledge to enhance the food… Read More → Tweets by TAMUFSTC “The Department of Food Science and Technology’s grand mission is to create new knowledge that leads to high quality, healthy, diverse, safe, and sustainable food systems to address current and future national and global needs.” More Information Undergraduate Programs Contact Us Research 373 Olsen Blvd., 2256 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-2252 979-845-2142 © 2022 Texas A&M University. All rights reserved. Compact with Texans Privacy and Security Accessibility Policy State Link Policy Statewide Search Veterans Benefits Military Families Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Equal Opportunity Open Records/Public Information