Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Food @ OSU » Orange Cash Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Orange Cash Robot Delivery + Mobile Orders Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Orange Cash Robot Delivery + Mobile Orders Buy-in or reload orange cash Orange Cash Enjoy the convenience and savings Use the Orange Cash account on your OSU ID card to make purchases at campus dining locations, vending machines, Printing & Mailing and more. More than 25 campus restaurants, cafes and markets offer an automatic 10% discount when you use your Orange Cash for in-person transactions. Accepted across campus UHDS & MU Commons dining locations Vending machines Printing & Mailing Bowling at MU Lanes and Games Make copies at the Valley Library Mobile order food & robot delivery Orange Cash accounts allow A 10% discount on in-person transactions made at participating Corvallis campus dining locations and at the OSU-Cascades dining center. Exclusive discounts and special offers by email. (Please review all coupon limitations and restrictions.) Convenience of using your OSU ID. No more need for a bank card or cash. Ability to track dollar balances using the MyCard website. Convenience of adding additional spendable dollars to your Orange Cash account online via the MyCard website using applicable credit or debit card. (Can make additional deposits between $25 and $500 per transaction.) Option to add spendable dollars in person at the OSU ID Center in 103 Memorial Union with cash, check, Visa, or MasterCard. Continued membership. Orange Cash carries over from term to term and year to year as long as you are affiliated with Oregon State University. (When leaving the university, any remaining balance can be refunded minus a nominal administrative fee.) Terms and Conditions panini_caprese_salad_crop.jpg Buy-In or Reload Locations Terms and Conditions Buy-In or Reload › Printer-friendly version Contact Info Food @ OSU A partnership between University Housing & Dining Services (UHDS), the Memorial Union and the OSU ID Center. Corvallis, OR 97331-1317 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer