Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Food Science Main navigation Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Student Resources Research Outreach & Extension Events Industry Engagement Cornell Institute for Food Systems Other Industry Initiatives Recruit Our Students About Advisory Council Contact Us DEI Statement Facilities News People Navigation Main mobile navigation Degrees & Programs Degrees & Programs Overview Undergraduate Graduate Student Resources Research Research Overview Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview Events Industry Engagement Industry Engagement Overview Cornell Institute for Food Systems Other Industry Initiatives Recruit Our Students About About Overview Advisory Council Contact Us DEI Statement Facilities News People Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Undergraduate Breadcrumb Home Food Science Degrees & Programs The food science program prepares students for careers in the food industry, government, academia, and for graduate study in food science or related disciplines. Food scientists enjoy satisfying careers that help ensure the sustainable availability of a safe, nutritious, affordable, and high-quality food supply for people throughout New York State, the nation, and the world. At Cornell, the undergraduate food science major is unique in that students choose between three different concentration options: Science, Business, or Safety. With all concentration options, the first two years are intended to establish a solid background in math, chemistry, and physical and biological sciences. Required courses include chemistry (introductory and organic), biology, microbiology, calculus, physics, introductory food science courses, and nutrition. The last two years emphasize the application of these basic sciences and technology to the manufacturing, sensory evaluation, storage, distribution, and safety of foods and food ingredients. Whether students choose the Science, Business, or Safety concentration, every student in our program will obtain a strong foundation in the physical sciences, and a thorough exposure to the various fields in Food Science. Students are also strongly encouraged to participate in undergraduate research supervised by a faculty member and/or complete an internship in a food company during their program of study. Most teaching faculty in the department also have active research programs and welcome participation by undergraduate students. Careers in the food industry are incredibly varied, and our students are heavily recruited by large and small companies in a range of industry sectors. For the last several years, 97-100% of our graduates have found a place in industry or graduate school within 6 months of completing our program. Explore our Concentration Options: Science Business Safety Back to list of careers Science The Science concentration provides an integrated curriculum that blends fundamental science with the more applied aspects of the science of foods. It is our most popular concentration among Food Science majors. This concentration is intended to provide students with a strong foundation in science and engineering within the Food Science realm, and includes an Applied Food Chemistry requirement. Learn more... Back to list of careers Business The Business concentration is our second most popular concentration among Food Science majors, and features the Business Proficiency Requirement. The Business concentration deals with the principles and practices pertinent to efficient management of food processing, preservation, distribution and marketing operations. Students who pursue the Business concentration can also easily pursue a Business minor. Learn more... Back to list of careers Safety The Safety concentration is intended for students who are most interested in the Food Safety industry, and includes a Safety Proficiency Requirement. It provides a comprehensive curriculum covering physical, chemical and biological hazards that affect the safety of foods while providing a solid background in applied food science. Learn more... Curriculum Admissions Minor Contact Us Food Science Curriculum Undergraduates in Food Science have the opportunity to choose from one of three degree concentrations, which assist students in focusing their undergraduate program and matching their coursework to their interests. Whether students choose the Science concentration, Business concentration, or the Safety concentration, every student in our program will get a strong foundation in the physical sciences, and a thorough exposure to the various fields in Food Science. Courses and Requirements To obtain a Bachelor of Science in Food Science, students choose one of three possible concentrations: Science, Business, or Safety. Please fill out our Interest Form to view the latest requirements for the concentration(s) you're interested in. Example Four-Year Schedules To view an example of a four-year schedule based on concentration, please fill out our Interest Form. Note that the four-year schedules are examples only, for a hypothetical first-year student entering without AP/IB credits. Applying for Admission New Students - First Years and Transfers First year and transfer applications are processed through the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences' (CALS) Admissions Office. Prospective students who are interested in learning more about the Food Science Undergraduate Program are encouraged to visit us in Stocking Hall, and are welcome to join us on campus on any day that the University is open. Internal Transfers and Changing Majors Students who are interested in internally transferring to CALS from another Cornell college (Engineering, Arts & Sciences, etc.) to the Food Science major may contact the Office of Internal Transfer and Concurrent Degrees for procedures. CALS students interested in changing their major to Food Science should contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies, Dr. Chris Loss, to arrange a meeting to discuss his/her current curriculum and the feasibility of changing majors by the end of the fall semester in their sophomore year at the latest. Both internal transfer applicants and CALS students interested in changing majors should be aware that acceptance to the major is not guaranteed. Students accepted into the major should have two semesters of Chemistry and two semesters of Biology prior to the end of their freshman year. Minoring in Food Science Any student at Cornell University, pending course and scheduling availability, may minor in Food Science! Please contact Garrett Downing at gdowning [at] cornell.edu for more information about the Minor in Food Science and the Declaration of Intent to Minor. Questions? Dr. Chris Loss Food Science Director of Undergraduate Studies crl3 [at] cornell.edu Food Science Summer Scholar Program Spend 10 weeks over the summer conducting research with world-renowned faculty … Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information