Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Departments Campus Planning & Development Design & Construction Environmental Health & Safety Facilities & Operations Facilities Financial Services Office of Emergency Management Parking & Transportation Real Estate Space Planning & Analysis Leadership Team Employee Resources About Us Vice President's Message Our Teams Contact Us Life@TheU Departments Leadership Team Employee Resources About Us Life@TheU Search Departments Campus Planning & Development Design & Construction Environmental Health & Safety Facilities & Operations Facilities Financial Services Office of Emergency Management Parking & Transportation Real Estate Space Planning & Analysis Leadership Team Employee Resources About Us Vice President's Message Our Teams Contact Us Life@TheU Welcome Our Division is an integral part of the University of Miami's Business and Finance Division. We support the University's mission by providing a wide array of services and solutions. You will find the entry page for each of our departments below. Each department is comprised of talented, knowledgeable individuals, all of whom are committed to our values and mission. Campus Planning & Development Campus Planning and Development provides expertise in master planning, land use, development regulations, mobility initiatives, historic preservation, and campus urban design. The department provides strategic analysis and direction for future development in compliance with regulations throughout our campuses. Learn more Design & Construction Design and Construction provides a variety of services and expertise in the management of capital improvement projects ranging from minor renovations to major new construction projects for all University campuses. Learn more Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) provides regulatory compliance guidance in the areas of occupational and environmental health and safety, through disseminating pertinent information, offering training opportunities and making available technical and professional assistance on related fields in support of, and to enhance the University's commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace for its faculty, staff, and students. Learn more Facilities & Operations Facilities and Operations is responsible for the stewardship of University facilities on the Coral Gables and RSMAS campuses. This department is responsible for building maintenance, access control, energy management, campus infrastructure, fire and security systems, utilities distribution, grounds, and custodial services. Learn more Office of Emergency Management The Office of Emergency Management is responsible for emergency preparedness, disaster recovery, and business continuity planning for all campuses. This office is also responsible for the University’s Emergency Notification Network (ENN) in coordination with the University of Miami Police Department (UMPD) and the Miller School of Medicine/RSMAS Public Safety Emergency Operations Departments. Learn more Parking & Transportation Parking and Transportation provides parking services to customers in a safe, effective manner. Their services include parking and transportation operations, customer service, mobility strategies, and special events. Learn more Real Estate Real Estate is responsible for the University's overall real estate strategy, including acquisition and disposition of real estate assets, enterprise-wide leasing strategies, and management of University owned real estate property. Learn more Space Planning & Analysis Space Planning and Analysis strives to be a professional, customer focused, responsive, and effective provider of space management services in a cooperative framework. Our objective is to provide support to the strategic planning processes by supplying accurate and timely information, analysis, and advice to inform decision-making and re-allocation processes. Learn more Sustainability The Office of Sustainability is the culmination of all efforts to increase sustainability throughout the University while educating its community to be better stewards of the environment. Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Facilities Operations and Planning 1535 Levante Avenue Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3051 305-284-3051 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices