Forever Syracuse Home Giving Home SU Home Toggle navigation Popular Gifts Wills and Living Trusts Beneficiary Designations Gifts That Pay You Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trusts More Ways to Give IRA Charitable Rollover Memorials and Tribute Gifts Real Estate Endowed Gifts Charitable Lead Trusts Resources eBrochures Gift Illustrator Bequest Language Planned Giving Newsletters 1870 Society Meet Our Donors For Professional Advisors Professional Advisor Network Contact Us The 1870 Society Your planned gift to Syracuse University will have a strong and lasting impact on preserving the University's cherished past while securing its bright future. In addition to the many financial advantages you receive for making a life income or estate gift, your generosity will inspire other Syracuse University alumni and friends to consider making a planned gift of their own. When you create a planned gift, you will be recognized as a member of the Syracuse University 1870 Society—a special group of visionary individuals who have included the University in their long-term financial and estate plans. Our members are insightful leaders who guide the way for future generations of Syracuse University students. In order for us to properly thank you, welcome you as an 1870 Society member, and ensure we understand how you'd like Syracuse University to use your gift, please let us know of your bequest intentions. If you would like to remain anonymous, we will gladly honor your request. Download the 1870 Society Planned Gift form. Information contained herein was accurate at the time of posting. The information on this website is not intended as legal or tax advice. For such advice, please consult an attorney or tax advisor. Figures cited in any examples are for illustrative purposes only. References to tax rates include federal taxes only and are subject to change. State law may further impact your individual results. California residents: Annuities are subject to regulation by the State of California. Payments under such agreements, however, are not protected or otherwise guaranteed by any government agency or the California Life and Health Insurance Guarantee Association. Oklahoma residents: A charitable gift annuity is not regulated by the Oklahoma Insurance Department and is not protected by a guaranty association affiliated with the Oklahoma Insurance Department. South Dakota residents: Charitable gift annuities are not regulated by and are not under the jurisdiction of the South Dakota Division of Insurance. A copy of our most recently filed financial report is available from the Charities Registry on the New York State Attorney General’s website (www.charitiesnys.com) or, upon request, by contacting the New York State Attorney General, Charities Bureau, 28 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10005, or us at 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor, Syracuse, NY 13244-5160. You also may obtain information on charitable organizations from the New York State Office of the Attorney General at www.charitiesnys.com or (212) 416-8401. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Syracuse University, Office of Gift Planning 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.3991 Toll-Free: 888.352.9535 Fax: 315.443.2874 E-mail: GiftPlan@syr.edu Like SU on Facebook Follow SU on Twitter Subscribe to SU on YouTube Like SU on Instagram Personal Estate Planning Kit Request Form Please provide the following information to view the materials for planning your estate. First Name First name is required Last Name Last Name is required Email Address Please include an '@' in the email address Checkpoint Download My FREE Personal Estate Planning Kit eBrochure Request Form Please provide the following information to view the brochure. First Name First name is required Last Name Last Name is required Email Address Please include an '@' in the email address Checkpoint View My Free Brochure