Forever Syracuse Home Giving Home SU Home Toggle navigation Popular Gifts Wills and Living Trusts Beneficiary Designations Gifts That Pay You Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trusts More Ways to Give IRA Charitable Rollover Memorials and Tribute Gifts Real Estate Endowed Gifts Charitable Lead Trusts Resources eBrochures Gift Illustrator Bequest Language Planned Giving Newsletters 1870 Society Meet Our Donors For Professional Advisors Professional Advisor Network Contact Us Forever Syracuse Make an Impact with Gift Planning For the most up-to-date official information on COVID-19 for the Syracuse University community, please visit https://www.syracuse.edu/coronavirus What is New? Top Philanthropists Do This 10 Reasons Giving From Your Will Is a Good Idea Help Me Choose an Executor of My Estate View All Articles Plan Today to Change Lives Tomorrow Generosity comes in many forms, and it's often the best way for you to support important causes that matter the most to you in your life. When you give to Syracuse University, you help change lives and create more opportunities for scholarship, research and teaching. Start your legacy by learning about the different gift options available to you. We will work with you to find a charitable plan that lets you provide for your family and strengthens your connection to Syracuse University. Explore Your Choices Take a look at the different options that you think may work best. Plan by Giving Amount Under $25,000 $25,000 to $99,999 $100,000 to $999,999 $1 million or more Under $25,000 The most popular options for a gift in this range: Outright Gift of Cash Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Gift Annuity Beneficiary Designations $25,000 to $99,999 The most popular options for a gift in this range: Outright Gift of Cash Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Gift Annuity Beneficiary Designations $100,000 to $999,999 The most popular options for a gift in this range: Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Beneficiary Designations Charitable Gift Annuity Outright Gift of Life Insurance Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust $1 million or more The most popular options for a gift in this range: Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Beneficiary Designations Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Plan by Age Under 40 40-54 55-69 70+ Under 40 The best gift options for you: Outright Gift of Cash Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Beneficiary Designations 40-54 The best gift options for you: Outright Gift of Cash Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Beneficiary Designations 55-69 The best gift options for you: Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Gift Annuity Beneficiary Designations Outright Gift of Real Estate Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust 70+ The best gift options for you: Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Gift Annuity Beneficiary Designations Make a Gift Tax-Free With An IRA Outright Gift of Life Insurance Outright Gift of Real Estate Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Plan by Assets Cash Appreciated Securities Retirement Plan Assets Real Estate Tangible Personal Property Cash Most popular ways to give this asset: Outright Gift of Cash Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Gift Annuity Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Appreciated Securities Most popular ways to give this asset: Outright Gift of Appreciated Securities Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Gift Annuity Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Retirement Plan Assets Most popular ways to give this asset: Beneficiary Designations Make a Gift Tax-Free With An IRA Charitable Remainder Trust Real Estate Most popular ways to give this asset: Outright Gift of Real Estate Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Tangible Personal Property Most popular ways to give this asset: Outright Gift or Bargain Sale Gift in Your Will or Living Trust Charitable Remainder Trust Not sure how to get started? × Modal header Close Become a Member Join our legacy society today and see how your gift to Syracuse University makes a lasting impact. Join Now Meet Our Donors Our donors are philanthropists in the finest sense of the word. With their help, we're making the world a better place. Read More Information contained herein was accurate at the time of posting. The information on this website is not intended as legal or tax advice. For such advice, please consult an attorney or tax advisor. Figures cited in any examples are for illustrative purposes only. References to tax rates include federal taxes only and are subject to change. State law may further impact your individual results. California residents: Annuities are subject to regulation by the State of California. Payments under such agreements, however, are not protected or otherwise guaranteed by any government agency or the California Life and Health Insurance Guarantee Association. Oklahoma residents: A charitable gift annuity is not regulated by the Oklahoma Insurance Department and is not protected by a guaranty association affiliated with the Oklahoma Insurance Department. South Dakota residents: Charitable gift annuities are not regulated by and are not under the jurisdiction of the South Dakota Division of Insurance. A copy of our most recently filed financial report is available from the Charities Registry on the New York State Attorney General’s website (www.charitiesnys.com) or, upon request, by contacting the New York State Attorney General, Charities Bureau, 28 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10005, or us at 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor, Syracuse, NY 13244-5160. You also may obtain information on charitable organizations from the New York State Office of the Attorney General at www.charitiesnys.com or (212) 416-8401. Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy Syracuse University, Office of Gift Planning 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.3991 Toll-Free: 888.352.9535 Fax: 315.443.2874 E-mail: GiftPlan@syr.edu Like SU on Facebook Follow SU on Twitter Subscribe to SU on YouTube Like SU on Instagram