Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now THE PATH TO SUCCESS IS IN OUR NATURE RADICAL OPTIMISM FOR THE FUTURE NEVER BEEN DONE IS WHAT WE DO Breadcrumb Home / About the Campaign About the Campaign Humanity Is the Heart of It All For Humanity is the most ambitious fundraising effort in Yale’s history, guided by our mission to improve the world now and for future generations. We are making bold investments for the greatest impact, ensuring that our faculty and students have the support they need as they tackle the most critical challenges facing humankind. Yale makes extraordinary contributions to every human endeavor. Through teaching and research. In science, engineering, and medicine. Across the arts and humanities. For Humanity builds on our unique strengths. Its four priority areas encompass the people, programs, and projects at Yale that expand our potential to make a difference around the globe. Arts & Humanities for Insight Arts & Humanities for Insight Unlock society’s untapped potential by blending scholarship and creativity. Learn More Science for Breakthroughs Science for Breakthroughs Push science to new frontiers that create transformative, global solutions. Learn More Collaborating for Impact Collaborating for Impact Work together to ensure one field’s insights fuel another’s breakthroughs. Learn More Leaders for A Better World Leaders for A Better World Shape aspiring leaders to serve all sectors of society. Learn More Strategic Goals A university-wide effort, the For Humanity campaign is an opportunity to engage the entire Yale community. In addition to a financial target of $7 billion, our strategic goals support transparency, inclusion, and President Salovey’s vision of a stronger, more unified Yale. Strengthen the bonds that connect alumni Encourage alumni to engage with each other and with Yale through volunteerism, philanthropy, shared experiences, and communication. Sustain Yale’s relevance to alumni from the day they graduate. Strengthen our foundation for the future Continue to build and fortify relationships with alumni, parents, individuals, and organizations without previous affiliation with Yale. Nurture lifelong engagement with alumni of diverse backgrounds. Energize our entire Yale community Improve our community’s understanding of philanthropy and how it impacts students, faculty members, and staff. Partner with faculty and university leadership to communicate campaign priorities. People are Our Greatest Strength World icon Yale is committed to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Giving advances these core values by helping us bring people from diverse backgrounds to campus. It supports their work, and enables them to thrive. Alumni, parents, and friends can sustain a welcoming Yale with gifts for research, teaching, our workplaces, and our community. Learn More What Are You For? Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement