Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Collaborating for Impact Breadcrumb Home / About the Campaign / Collaborating for Impact Collaborating for Impact Today’s challenges call for innovative and cross-disciplinary solutions—the kind that arise from human connection. In an era of rapid change, we make progress through the sharing of ideas, the spark of inspiration, and the understanding that arises when we welcome diverse perspectives. We grow because discoveries in physics lead to advances in materials science and new techniques in medical imaging. Insights from economics and political science inform environmental and social policy, and psychology helps us shape messages to address climate change. Yale combines a culture of collaboration with a commitment to people, ensuring that the insights of one field can rapidly drive breakthroughs in another. The results are ethically grounded, creative solutions for today’s pressing global problems. Planetary Solutions Project An integrated response to environmental challenges World icon The Yale Planetary Solutions Project brings together scientists and scholars from many disciplines to unlock novel solutions for our planet. Learn More Jackson Institute Emissaries for the Future of Diplomacy At the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs, students, faculty members, practitioners, and leaders from both sides of the aisle join in tackling global and political challenges through teaching, research, and dialogue. Learn More Data Science Initiative Turning Information into Insight Yale’s data science initiative brings together computer scientists, mathematicians, and other researchers to develop new methods for making sense of the massive amounts of data we now have access to. The tools they create will reveal new insights. Learn More Provost Scott Strobel “No single discipline can solve the complex global challenges we face. Productive, cross-disciplinary approaches are the key to unlocking the best solutions.” Provost Scott Strobel More Collaborating for Impact View All April 21, 2022 Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Nets Support from Boeing The aerospace leader joins FedEx and Southwest Airlines in a commitment to climate research at Yale University. Read More December 8, 2021 Eric and Wendy Schmidt Support Innovative Program at Jackson Institute What influence will artificial intelligence have on global affairs and security? Spanning a range of disciplines, the Schmidt Program on Artificial Intelligence, Emerging Technologies, and National Power aims to find out. Read More November 23, 2021 Southwest Airlines Joins Yale Climate Change Initiative With a $10 million gift, Southwest Airlines Co.® supports Yale’s efforts to address climate change. Read More What Are You For? Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement