Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Annual Giving Annual gifts provide funds for Yale to use right away and are the most popular way for alumni and friends to support the university. Each year, more than 30,000 donors give to the Yale College Alumni Fund, the Alumni and Annual Funds of the graduate and professional schools, and the Parents Annual Fund. Their gifts range from under $25 to over $50,000. All together, these contributions provide more than $40 million to support Yale students. No matter the amount, your annual gift helps make a big difference. Breadcrumb Home / How to Give / Annual Giving Annual Giving Yale College Alumni Fund Gifts to the Yale College Alumni Fund touch every aspect of the undergraduate experience, including financial aid, teaching, research, and student life. Learn More Postgraduate Alumni & Annual Funds Annual giving by alumni forms the backbone of support for Yale’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and twelve professional schools. Learn More Parents Annual Fund Yale parents provide essential resources for Yale College’s highest priorities, including financial aid and enriching undergraduate life on campus. Learn More Giving to the Future Nathan Hale Associates World icon The Nathan Hale Associates program recognizes and thanks the many generous donors—alumni, parents, students, and friends—whose leadership annual gifts make possible the dynamic, diverse, and creative environment that defines the Yale experience. Learn More Make a Difference Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement