Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now How to Give Breadcrumb Home / How to Give How to Give Be a Part of Something Big When you give to Yale, you’re doing more than supporting a university. Your gift is an investment in people who are uncovering new knowledge, innovating, and putting their expertise to use for the good of all humanity. For insight, for breakthroughs, for impact, for a better world—everyone can participate. There are many ways to give, and here you can find the one that’s right for you. For Immediate Impact Annual Giving Provide critical funds for Yale to use right away in support of exceptional students, expert faculty members, and groundbreaking programs. Learn More For Connection Reunion Giving Celebrate your Yale College classmates and your time together with gifts to the university in honor of your upcoming reunion. Learn More For the Bigger Picture Capital Giving Open Yale’s doors to even more talented students, fuel research, and enhance the university’s excellence for many years to come. Learn More For Your Legacy Planned Giving & Bequests Create a lasting legacy at the university and provide significant benefits for you and your heirs with a planned gift to Yale. Learn More Making a Gift You can give to Yale via cash, check, and with a credit card online or over the phone, as well as with a gift of marketable securities or other assets. Email development.gifts@yale.edu or call 203.432.5436 for details or assistance. Your gift can have an even greater impact if your employer has a matching gift program. Yale’s Federal Tax ID is 06-0646973. Gifts to Yale are tax deductible in compliance with IRS guidelines. Gifts of Cash You can make a gift of cash via check, credit card, or wire transfer. To give by credit card (Visa, Mastercard, or American Express), please make your gift online or call 1.800.395.7646 or 203.432.5436. Please make checks out to Yale University and mail to: Yale University Office of Development Contribution Processing P.O. Box 2038 New Haven, CT 06521-2038 To give via cash wire transfer, please call 203.432.2206. Matching Gifts Your gift can have an even greater impact if your employer has a matching gift program. Find out if your company will match your contribution. If your company participates, request a matching gift form from your employer, and send it to Yale completed and signed with your gift. We’ll do the rest. Matched gifts may double or even triple your original gift amount. Your spouse’s company may also match your gift, and some companies also match gifts made by retirees. Gifts of Marketable Securities With a gift of appreciated securities that you have held for more than one year, you can take a federal income tax deduction equal to the fair market value of the stock on the date of the gift for up to 30 percent of your adjusted gross income and avoid tax on the capital gain. Securities held by your bank or broker To give securities held by your bank or broker, please instruct your bank or broker to call Donated Securities at 203.432.4107 or email donated.securities@yale.edu for instructions. Please tell your bank or broker not to proceed until speaking with a representative in our office. You can also make a donation of securities online. Securities you hold To give securities you hold, please send unendorsed certificates by mail, along with a letter stating your name, address, Yale College class or Yale school affiliation, the purpose of your gift, and securities cost-basis information to: Yale University Office of Development Donated Securities P.O. Box 805 New Haven, CT 06503-0805 Telephone: 203.432.4107 In a separate envelope, please mail to the same address a stock power for each certificate, along with a copy of your letter. Do not complete any information on the stock power other than your signature and the date and obtain a medallion signature guarantee. If the certificate represents a greater number of shares than you intend to give to Yale, please enclose a note requesting the return of a new stock certificate with the non-gift balance and include your social security number, full name, address, and phone number. Your bank or broker can supply you with blank stock powers, or Donated Securities will be happy to send them to you. For most expedient handling, do not fill in Yale’s name as transferee on either the stock certificate or the stock power, and please do not send stock certificates to a transfer agent for transfer into Yale’s name. Mutual fund shares To give mutual fund shares, please contact Donated Securities at 203.432.4107. The procedure for transferring shares is established by the mutual fund company. Donated Securities will be able to assist you with the appropriate letters of instruction. Excise tax on donated securities As of July 1, 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 imposes on Yale a 1.4 percent excise tax on net investment income. Yale’s income includes the difference between a donor’s tax basis (typically the original purchase price) and the net proceeds Yale receives upon sale of donated securities. To calculate Yale’s tax liability, we need to collect information about the tax basis of all donated securities. Yale's Federal Tax ID is 06-0646973 Gifts of Other Assets Gifts to Yale may be made in the form of many other types of assets. Appreciated assets are particularly tax-efficient gifts. You may wish to consider gifts of closely held stock, tangible personal property, or real estate. See Planned Giving & Bequests for further information. Call toll free at 1.800.395.7646 or email development.gifts@yale.edu with any questions. International Gifts to Yale If you are a donor to Yale who pays taxes in another country, you can find information about international giving here. Gift Guide Considering a capital gift? Browse our Gift Guide to discover some of the many ways you can make a difference in areas of Yale that are important to you. Giving opportunities are updated often, and what you’ll see here is just a sampling of needs across the university. Your investment in Yale will empower our students and scholars to make the most of their potential—and make a real difference in the world. Thank you for your generous support. Make a Difference Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement