Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Leaders for a Better World Breadcrumb Home / About the Campaign / Leaders for a Better World Leaders for a Better World Each year, talented and committed students come to Yale to prepare for lives of leadership and service. They make discoveries, create knowledge, build relationships, and go on to become trailblazing inventors, artists, journalists, entrepreneurs, CEOs, and heads of state. Increasing access and affordability so that the brightest scholars from all backgrounds can study and thrive at Yale is a critical goal of the For Humanity campaign. Yale Sets $1.2 Billion Goal for Student Support World icon The ambitious, university-wide initiative focuses on new giving for scholarships and fellowships and aims to permanently make a Yale education more affordable and accessible. Read More Every Gift Has an Impact It’s a bold goal, and no single gift will get us to the finish line. Contributions of every size are critical to increasing access and making Yale affordable for the most talented students and scholars, regardless of race, class, or socioeconomic standing. You can support students by giving to scholarships and fellowships in the best way for you: annual, capital, and planned gifts all count toward the total, and contributions count toward reunion class gifts. $1.2B for students For All Students Gifts to support students across the university enable these future leaders to receive a world-class education and thrive within Yale’s vibrant and diverse community. Yale College Yale College students hail from all fifty states and every corner of the globe. Generous financial aid means they come from every background: fifty-four percent of students here receive need-based assistance, with an average yearly scholarship exceeding $55,000. Each year we update and expand financial aid to ensure that every student can participate fully in the opportunities Yale has to offer. The lessons they learn—and the people they become—have the power to change the world. Learn more about undergraduate support. Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Students at Yale’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences are engines of discovery. They shape ideas and push the boundaries of traditional scholarship into exciting new areas. They design and conduct experiments and uncover new knowledge. They share their findings to benefit the wider world. Graduate fellowships unlock the potential of Yale students, advance scholarship and research, and throw open the doors to a better future. Learn more about graduate student support. Professional Schools Students in Yale’s professional schools prepare for careers in all levels of industry, nonprofits, ministry, government, and the arts. Since Yale’s founding, its mission has been to prepare dedicated individuals for service to society. Our professional students embody this work every day as they prepare for their vocations, learning from each other and Yale’s world-class faculty. Learn more about professional school support. Student Stories Read More May 11, 2022 Sharing a Love of Music: Elisabeth Moore SY ’23 Elisabeth Moore mentors New Haven Public School students, sharing more than just her passion for singing. Read More May 2, 2022 Paving the Way: Rudy Cordero TC ’24 Rudy Cordero took a unique path to get to Yale. He hopes to show other students like him that they belong. Read More April 26, 2022 Inspired by Science: Jaida Morgan ES ’23 Drawn to the research opportunities at Yale, Jaida has worked in two research labs and found a community of peers and mentors through the STARS program. Read More David Donnini ’87 Why Give Back? “Yale changed my life. It provided me an opportunity that my family could not afford. I feel an obligation to help provide that same life-changing experience for others.” David Donnini ’87 For Now Annual Giving Forever Endowment Gifts Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement