Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Home An Ambitious Investment An Ambitious Investment Yale Sets $1.2 Billion Goal for Student Support A university-wide initiative within the $7 billion For Humanity campaign focuses on new giving for scholarships and fellowships and aims to permanently make a Yale education more affordable and accessible. Learn More What are you for? Improving the human condition requires human intellect and emotion. Forces that move us beyond ourselves to find untold ways to improve billions of lives. To simultaneously study vaccines, virtual reality, and Vermeer. This curiosity pushes us to find connections. And from connections, solutions. About the Campaign Arts & Humanities for Insight Arts & Humanities for Insight Unlock society’s untapped potential by blending scholarship and creativity. Learn More Science for Breakthroughs Science for Breakthroughs Push science to new frontiers that create transformative, global solutions. Learn More COLLABORATING for IMPACT COLLABORATING for IMPACT Work together to ensure one field’s insights fuel another’s breakthroughs. Learn More LEADERS for A BETTER WORLD LEADERS for A BETTER WORLD Shape aspiring leaders to serve all sectors of society. Learn More Giving & Impact Read More May 12, 2022 Eli Days Events Inspire Gratitude, Reflection Across Campus Hundreds of students participated in a series of events sponsored by the Yale Alumni Fund designed to create opportunities for celebration and thankfulness. Read More May 2, 2022 Paving the Way: Rudy Cordero TC ’24 Rudy Cordero took a unique path to get to Yale. He hopes to show other students like him that they belong. Read More April 21, 2022 Yale Center for Natural Carbon Capture Nets Support from Boeing The aerospace leader joins FedEx and Southwest Airlines in a commitment to climate research at Yale University. Read More Our Goal $7,000,000,000 Raised $0 $4 billion raised as of May 2022 Give Now President Peter Salovey ’86 PhD “Let us embrace, together, our humility—our willingness to admit what we have yet to discover. After all, if you knew all the answers, you would not need Yale. And if humanity knew all the answers, the world would not need Yale.” President Peter Salovey ’86 PhD What Are You For? Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement