Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Alumni Affairs & Development Personal Information Disclosure Breadcrumb Home / Alumni Affairs & Development Personal Information Disclosure Alumni Affairs & Development Personal Information Disclosure Yale University is committed to maintaining the privacy of its alumni, donors, prospective donors, and other constituents. The Yale offices of Alumni Affairs and Development (AAD) exist to support relationships between Yale and its alumni, donors, and other constituents to benefit the scholarship and research of Yale students and faculty. This disclosure describes how AAD manages and uses personal information to facilitate alumni and donor involvement with the life and activities of Yale. This disclosure is specific to AAD and applies to information maintained about alumni, prospective, current and former donors, and other constituents. Personal Information Collected AAD collects and uses various kinds of personal information, including the following: biographical information, contact information, employment and career-related information, information relating to a person’s time at Yale and other academic institutions, volunteer and event registration/attendance information, gift and recognition information, publicly available financial information, and information concerning a person’s interests, activities, memberships, and affiliations (both within Yale and outside of Yale). For alumni, some of this information may be transferred from student records. You also may provide personal information directly to Yale when you interact with AAD or other Yale offices or affiliates (for example, when you register to attend an AAD event). Use of Personal Information The personal information collected by AAD, or on its behalf, is collected for the primary purpose of providing you with opportunities to engage with Yale. AAD uses personal information for fundraising and engagement aimed at advancing Yale’s mission. This information helps AAD identify philanthropic and engagement opportunities and customize communications for our constituents. For example, personal information listed in the Yale Online Alumni Directory profile may be used to provide alumni with information about Yale Alumni Association activities. Sharing of Personal Information AAD may share your personal information with affiliated Yale alumni organizations (e.g., Yale clubs) and Yale departments for university-related activities. AAD will not use your personal information for any commercial or philanthropic purpose unrelated to Yale. Yale may enter into agreements with affinity partners, such as the bank that provides the Yale Mastercard, which we believe provide value to the Yale community. Yale may share alumni information from the Yale Online Alumni Directory profile (including, but not limited to, mailing address, phone number, and email address) with such business partners so that they may offer their services or products. Alumni have the option of opting out of such communications. Protection of Personal Information AAD is committed to the security and privacy of personal information. Information we collect from individuals located abroad is transferred to the United States. AAD uses technologies and controls designed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of personal information. AAD is committed to taking reasonable and appropriate measures to safeguard the personal information AAD collects, stores, and uses and requires any third-party venders accessing data on our behalf to implement safeguards as well. Individual Access & Control You may have the right to view, amend, or request that AAD delete personal information. You can make such a request by sending an email to personaldatainfo@yale.edu. This Personal Information Disclosure may be updated from time to time. This version is current as of December 2021. Questions? Contact the Yale offices of Alumni Affairs and Development at personaldatainfo@yale.edu. Please refer to the Yale University Privacy Policy and Online Alumni Community and YaleMail Privacy Policy for more information. Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement