Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Arts & Humanities for Insight Breadcrumb Home / About the Campaign / Arts & Humanities for Insight Arts & Humanities for Insight Being more human starts with a concerted effort to understand what it means to be human in the first place. Yale students and faculty explore the fullness of the human experience, seeking light and truth in both new and timeless questions. Through the study and critical analysis of the past and present, we influence and advance a greater future—one that will prove to be inclusive to all of humanity. Our schools of architecture, art, drama, and music inspire all of us to beauty and creativity, while nurturing new generations of artists and art lovers. With unrivaled scholarship and teaching in the humanities, social sciences, and divinity, we use our human ability as the key to unlock society’s potential. Collections at Yale Preservation & Access World icon Yale’s constellation of museums and libraries is unrivaled. Advances in technology offer a remarkable opportunity to share our collections in new ways. Learn More Humanities Quadrangle The Intersection of Hearts & Minds At the Humanities Quadrangle, known to Yalies as HQ, people come together around philosophy, language, culture, and tradition, shedding new light on the human condition. Learn More David Geffen School of Drama A Voice for Change Diversity, equity, and inclusion take center stage at David Geffen School of Drama. Learn More Tamar Szabó Gendler “We are for research that builds on the past and shapes the future. Yale’s humanities scholars wrestle with enduring questions, deepening understanding and expanding insight.” Tamar Szabó Gendler Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences More Arts & Humanities for Insight View All September 26, 2019 A Sound for the Ages Jazz: it’s got that swing! Supporting the great American art form and its future practitioners, Adam R. Rose ’81 endows the Yale Jazz Ensemble, the university’s outstanding big band of student performers. Read More September 23, 2020 Nurturing Artistic Talent Regina Serniak Stewart establishes a scholarship fund in her late husband’s name, allowing students at the School of Art to focus their energies on their art. Read More August 2, 2021 Midcentury Masterpieces Come to Yale University Art Gallery A recent gift from the Friday Foundation has brought additional works by Mark Rothko and Franz Kline to the Yale University Art Gallery. Read More What Are You For? Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement