Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Planned Giving & Bequests If you want to plan for retirement, provide for a loved one, or maximize your giving, you can make a planned gift to Yale’s historic For Humanity campaign that will benefit you and create a legacy at Yale. We invite you to learn more about making a planned gift to Yale, including methods that offer you significant financial and tax advantages. Breadcrumb Home / How to Give / Planned Giving & Bequests Planned Giving & Bequests Options, Tools, and Resources You may have questions as you begin to plan your giving to Yale. The information here can help you understand the many ways to make a planned gift and learn how to enjoy the greatest benefits while maximizing your gift’s impact. Learn More Yale Legacy Partners World icon The Yale Legacy Partners is a society of alumni, family, and friends who have made a bequest or planned gift to the university. By becoming a Yale Legacy Partner, you join a group of others who have provided for generations of students and scholars to come. Learn More Highlights: Partners through Giving April 1, 2020 For Future Generations Caroline Hsaio Van ’79 supports Yale financial aid with a charitable gift annuity. Read More September 1, 2020 A Scholarship for Veterans at Yale Barbara Guss ’74 created a Yale charitable gift annuity to honor family and service. Read More September 1, 2020 Training the Next Generation of Doctors Eon Shin ’01 MD and Nara Shin ’02 MD met at Yale School of Medicine, which shaped their lives and careers. Now they’re giving back. Read More Make a Difference Give Now Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement