Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Schools and Units Breadcrumb Home / How to Give / Schools & Units Schools & Units One Yale, Sharing Light and Truth Our expertise spans the arts, humanities, sciences, and social sciences. We collaborate across Yale College, the Graduate School, the professional schools, and collections to improve the world through knowledge. Our work is to seek new answers through the study of the human experience, amplify scientific breakthroughs, cut across disciplines, and prepare graduates who create, inspire, and lead. Yale College Yale College For educating tomorrow’s leaders. Learn More Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Graduate School of Arts & Sciences For transforming seekers of fact into creators of knowledge. Learn More Faculty of Arts & Sciences Faculty of Arts & Sciences For crossing matters of heart with subjects of mind. Learn More School of Architecture School of Architecture For built environments that create sustainable, ethical, and resilient communities. Learn More School of Art School of Art For turning visual styles into timeless expression. Learn More Divinity School Divinity School For education that feeds faith and intellect. Learn More David Geffen School of Drama David Geffen School of Drama For training and advancing leaders in every theatrical discipline. Learn More School of Engineering & Applied Science School of Engineering & Applied Science For bridging technologies to advance the human condition. Learn More School of the Environment School of the Environment For knowledge, leadership, and a sustainable future. Learn More Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Jackson Institute for Global Affairs For intellect, character, and leadership that touches all nations. Learn More Law School Law School For arguments that win the day and secure justice. Learn More School of Management School of Management For leading the world in commerce and conscience. Learn More School of Medicine School of Medicine For rigorous science and compassionate care. Learn More School of Music School of Music For song that tells the human story. Learn More School of Nursing School of Nursing For inclusive practice, care, and better health for all. Learn More School of Public Health School of Public Health For informed approaches to a healthy world. Learn More Yale Schwarzman Center Yale Schwarzman Center For arts, ideas, cuisine, and community. Learn More Yale Athletics Yale Athletics For today’s contenders and tomorrow’s champions. Learn More Yale University Library Yale University Library For preserving knowledge in service of discovery. Learn More Yale University Art Gallery Yale University Art Gallery For open access to the world’s art. Learn More Yale Center for British Art Yale Center for British Art For the art of one culture in a global context. Learn More Peabody Museum of Natural History Peabody Museum of Natural History For looking at the past to inspire the future. Learn More Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement