Skip to main content Give Now Give Now For Humanity Arts & Humanities for Insight Science for Breakthroughs Collaborating for Impact Leaders for a Better World How to Give Schools & Units Capital Giving Planned Giving & Bequests Reunion Giving Annual Giving Gift Guide Why Yale? Your Impact Give Now Job Opportunities Breadcrumb Home / Job Opportunities Job Opportunities Welcome! The Yale University Office of Development leads the university’s fundraising efforts. Yale benefits from an outstanding tradition of alumni giving, as well as significant and growing support from parents, friends, corporations, and foundations. The Office of Development offers a dynamic and challenging work environment, with opportunities for meaningful accomplishment and true growth. We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, and rewards of a career at Yale University. Data Services Coordinator Reporting to the director, analytics and data services, support the efforts of Alumni Affairs and Development through report requests, data extractions and other information needs, utilizing database systems and other tools. Assist with the creation of query selections and marketing efforts for publications, events, mailings and other Alumni Affairs and Development activities from primary databases to support fundraising programs, alumni activities and other university initiatives. View full description and apply. Associate Director YCC Development The associate director of development, Yale Cancer Center, will work closely with the senior director of development, Yale Cancer Center to assist in the management of all aspects of engagement and fundraising activities for several departments at the Yale School of Medicine. View full description and apply. Major Gifts Officer, West Coast Yale University seeks an experienced and successful major gift officer to join the University’s Alumni Affairs and Development division. As a member of the university’s Major Gifts team, the major gift officer cultivates and solicits a portfolio of 120+ donors to Yale University residing in the San Francisco metro and other regions for gifts of $250,000 to $10 million+ and plays a central role collaborating with university leadership, faculty, development senior leadership, campaign volunteers, and colleagues throughout Alumni Affairs and Development. View full description and apply. Development Officer, Leadership Giving Yale University seeks a driven and successful fundraiser to join the division of Alumni Affairs and Development. As a member of the Office of Development Leadership Giving team, the leadership giving officer solicits prospective donors to Yale University for gifts of $10,000 to $250,000 and plays a central role collaborating with colleagues in Major Gifts, the Alumni Fund, Reunion Giving, and Planned Giving to ensure prospects are solicited comprehensively. View full description and apply. Program Coordinator, Science Strategy Reporting to the director of development for science strategy in the Office of Development, the program coordinator (PC) provides critical fundraising support to the director and assistant director and works on projects related to donors and initiatives across the university, with a focus on science fundraising. View full description and apply. Associate Director of Development, Law School Reporting to the director of development, the associate director of development will manage their own portfolio of major gift prospects and donors, and devise—in close collaboration with the associate dean and other school and university colleagues—strategic fundraising plans to secure gifts for high priority fundraising initiatives. View full description and apply. Assistant Director, Yale College Annual Giving The Yale Alumni Fund is seeking an assistant director to elevate fundraising and volunteer management efforts. In the fall of 2021, the university entered the public phase of For Humanity, the Yale Campaign, a university-wide fundraising initiative that aims to address the most critical challenges facing our world. As assistant director, you will work as a frontline fundraiser in the Yale College annual giving team and partner with a substantial group of dedicated volunteers to identify, cultivate, solicit, and steward alumni to drive engagement and expand broad-based donor support in strategic ways to provide a sustainable source of revenue in support of Yale’s mission. View full description and apply. Associate Director of Prospect Management & Research, Law School The Yale Law School Office of Alumni Engagement and Development and its Prospect Management & Research (PMR) team seeks a professional with a breadth of experience in both research and the effective and efficient management of prospects to drive philanthropic revenue. View full description and apply. Events Manager, YSM Development Plans and executes successful top-quality donor and prospect cultivation and recognition events that enhance the relationship between Yale School of Medicine and its prominent alumni, donors, and friends around the world. View full description and apply. Deputy Director of Development, YSM Development Reporting to the Senior Director of Development at the Yale School of Medicine, the Deputy Director of Development directs fundraising for assigned institutional priorities, creating prospect engagement strategies that build the donor pipeline and advance major individual and planned gifts. View full description and apply. Associate Analyst, Business Intelligence Reporting to the associate director, business intelligence, support the business intelligence efforts of Alumni Affairs and Development, using data visualization tools to develop reporting and analysis of fundraising results and alumni activities. View full description and apply. Development Program Coordinator, Principal Gifts Reporting to the program manager, the program coordinator provides advanced support and analysis for the associate vice president for development and the team of Principal Gifts officers in all aspects of their work. Principal Gifts is responsible for substantial and transformative donations made to the university. View full description and apply. YSM Development Program Coordinator Reporting to the program manager and the director of development at the Yale School of Medicine, the program coordinator (PC) provides a wide range of complex administrative support to the director. The PC drafts correspondence, briefings, stewardship reports and proposals; conducts research projects; maintains detailed prospect database records; coordinates the grateful patient program; and plans special events for a fundraising program serving Yale School of Medicine’s donors and friends. View full description and apply. Development Officer, Parent Gifts As a member of the Parent Gifts team, the development officer will raise meaningful philanthropic gifts from non-alumni parents in support of Yale’s highest priorities as part of the ambitious For Humanity campaign launched in 2021. With a portfolio of donors and prospects capable of leadership annual fund and major gifts, the development officer will report to the director of parent gifts and participate in implementing a dynamic program to engage generous families. View full description and apply. Regional Director of Major Gifts – NYC Metro Yale University seeks an experienced and successful fundraiser and manager to join the university’s division of Alumni Affairs and Development. Reporting to the director of major gifts, the regional director – New York Metro creates and leads a multi-pronged strategy the New York Metro region as part of the comprehensive For Humanity campaign. View full description and apply. Program Coordinator, Annual Giving Data & Reporting Working with considerable independence and exercising discretion in establishing priorities, provide high-level administrative and fundraising support to the deputy director, graduate and professional schools annual giving and other senior members of the Alumni Fund team within the Office of Development. View full description and apply. Advancement Systems Specialist Reporting to the director of advancement systems, the advancement systems specialist is responsible for providing application support to aid fundraising and alumni relations activities across departments and schools/units. This position requires excellent customer service, problem solving, technical reasoning, and collaboration skills along with a high level of individual judgment. View full description and apply. Reunion Giving Program Coordinator Working with considerable independence and exercising discretion in establishing priorities, the development coordinator provides data management, research, administrative, and communications support for the director of Yale College reunion giving and other members of the Reunion Giving team. View full description and apply. Development Coordinator, Law School Collaborates with the director to develop and manage the annual fund marketing strategy and implementation plan for Yale Law School. Partners with colleagues to develop and implement multi-channel (direct mail, email, social) data-driven marketing reunion and non-reunion strategies to acquire new donors, and to increase donor participation, donor retention, donor upgrades, and overall unrestricted revenue to Yale Law School. View full description and apply. Senior Associate Director of Law School Fund The associate director of the Yale Law School Fund is a member of the school’s Alumni Engagement and Development (AED) team, reporting to the director of Yale Law School fund. This individual is responsible for the identification, cultivation, solicitation, and acknowledgement of annual fund gifts from alumni, parents, and friends of the Yale Law School. This individual has responsibility for meeting all specific revenue and activity goals established in collaboration with the director of the Yale Law School fund. View full description and apply. Director of Law School Fund The director of the Yale Law School (YLS) fund is a member of the school’s Alumni Engagement and Development (AED) team, reporting to the director of development. The director of the YLS fund is responsible for overseeing reunion and non-reunion solicitations of annual unrestricted gifts as well as developing and implementing strategies to sustain the current success and future growth of the $5+ million annual giving program. View full description and apply. Advancement Systems Specialist Reporting to the director of Advancement Systems, the advancement systems specialist is responsible for providing application support to aid fundraising and alumni relations activities across departments and schools/units. This position requires excellent customer service, problem solving, technical reasoning and collaboration skills along with a high level of individual judgment. View full description and apply. Science Writer Reporting to the assistant director of development initiatives within the Office of Development’s Corporate and Foundation Relations and Science and Engineering team, the science writer provides comprehensive writing and writing assistance for all stages of prospect management and cultivation. View full description and apply. Associate Analyst, Business Intelligence Reporting to the associate director, business intelligence, support the business intelligence efforts of Alumni Affairs and Development, using data visualization tools to develop reporting and analysis of fundraising results and alumni activities. View full description and apply. Contacts Yale Alumni Association Volunteers Job Opportunities Annual Reports of Giving Gift Policies Give Now Connect On Social Yale.edu 157 Church Street, New Haven, CT 06510-2100 USA ©2022 Yale University, all rights reserved / Accessibility at Yale / Privacy Policy / Personal Information Disclosure / Consent Statement