Fortunoff Video Archive For Holocaust Testimonies About Us Our Story Founders Affiliate Projects Staff & Advisory Board Research Search the Archive Access Sites Use & Permissions Related Collections Fellowships Hartman Fellowship Call for Application – Hartman Fellowship 2021-2023 Rosenberg Fellowship Vlock Fellowship Laub Fellowship Fortunoff/VWI Fellowship Non-Residential Fellowships Past Fellows Education Curriculum Vlock Film Series Digital Humanities Podcasts Songs from Testimonies Edited Programs Publications Glimpses from Testimonies News & Events Past News & Events Event Recordings Contact Us Search Aviary for thousands of testimonies in our archive. Search help Home Education Podcasts Podcasts Subscribe Now Subscribe on: Those Who Were There: Voices from the Holocaust is the only podcast dedicated to sharing the history of the Holocaust through the first-hand testimonies of survivors and witnesses. The podcast draws on recorded interviews from Yale University’s Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies, which comprises the oral histories of over 4,000 people. It took incredible courage for these individuals to revisit their memories of Nazi-occupied Europe and provide testimony to the Fortunoff Video Archive; it is our duty to listen and share, so that the horrific events of the Holocaust do not fade from memory. Season Two of the series is a joint production between the Fortunoff Video Archive and the Museum of Jewish Heritage – A Living Memorial to the Holocaust in NYC. The ten episodes in Season Two will feature survivors who were recorded by the Museum of Jewish Heritage as an affiliate project of the Fortunoff Archive. Follow us on Twitter or Instagram for updates and please tell others to do the same. #thosewhowerethere #oralhistory Season Two is a co-production with the Museum of Jewish Heritage Podcast hosted by Season 2 Season 1 Introduction Introducing Season 2 "Through their recorded testimonies, we get a small glimpse into the unimaginable experiences that shaped them—and shaped our world. Their voices are a stark reminder of the millions of people who did not live to tell their stories." Listen and read more Episode 1 Sally Frishberg "And there was really no place to go. But my grandfather always contended that you don’t do anything. You stay put because, after all, he used to say, “Es iz nisht keyn hefke velt.” He meant that life had an orderly way of being conducted and that people who did nothing wrong need not be afraid of anything." Listen and read more Episode 2 Isaac Zieman "We were sent to a kolkhoz, a collective farm, called Svobodnyi Trud, which means “free labor,” and we were free laborers. We were laborers that were only given to eat, but not paid anything else." Listen and read more Episode 3 Annelies Herz "I had seen an advertisement, that a big, big, big, more than a farm is looking for help. And, um, I wrote them a letter. Same story: we lost our parents, we have vacation, and we would like to work in our vacation, but only when, if I can bring my sister." Listen and read more Episode 4 Helen Jonas "I was cleaning barracks until one day the commander, Amon Göth, who was in charge of the camp, walked in in the barrack and made, made his selection. He pointed a finger at me and ordered me to be his servant in his house that was located in the camp." Listen and read more Episode 5 Abram Merczynski "Nobody really, in their right mind, could imagine that, uh, that they could do, uh, things like this—just take innocent people, and murder, and put to gas chambers or something. Uh, nobody could imagine." Listen and read more Episode 6 Esther Schwartzman "We marched for days and days, and my older sister said she can’t march anymore, and a couple of times, she said she’s going to stop, she’s not going on. And there were a lot of people who did, and they shot them on the road. She said, “I don’t care if they shoot me, I’m not going anymore.” And at that point, she sat down on the side of the road, and, uh, my other sister and myself, we stayed with her." Listen and read more Episode 7 Leon Pommers "Something unexplainable happened—it was a miracle. One day a rumor was spread, which happened, which happened to be true later, that somebody went—he had some personal contact with the Japanese, uh, consulate in Kovno." Listen and read more Episode 8 Malka Baran "I remember hiding in a cellar, and we were very, very quiet as the German troops were entering the city. And a baby started crying, and there was a candle on the windowsill. The windows were closed. In order for the Germans not to hear the baby cry, the mother was stifling the baby. And then a candle burnt, went out, and people were beginning to say that there was no air. Obviously, we could not stay anymore, and we ran somewhere." Listen and read more Episode 9 Elias Recanati "I was born in Salonika, Greece, on March 30, 1932. My mother’s family was, uh, Spanish. And, uh, it was agreed between the Spaniards and the Germans that, uh, my mother, my brother, and myself would be spared if the Spaniards would give us a visa to go to Spain. Uh, however, in order for us to be able to achieve this, we had to escape from Salonika into Athens" Listen and read more Episode 10 Judith Perlaki "They opened the doors and we saw prisoners. They had striped uniform and a striped cap on it. And they were whispering, “Let the children go, let your children go,” in Jewish. We didn’t understand it. Why? Some people did; some people, some mothers would not let their children go, that’s for sure. Well, get off the train, I was holding my little sister’s hand, one of the younger sister hand." Listen and read more Series Introduction Introducing “Those Who Were There: Voices from the Holocaust” Meet host Eleanor Reissa and hear excerpts of upcoming episodes featuring first-hand accounts of the Holocaust—drawn from the Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies at Yale University. Listen and read more Episode 1 Martin Schiller "One of the things I remember as a child coming out, I felt I had to tell the world what was happening. So, I remember the first few months in the yeshiva I would speak freely. I would tell the kids everything. I would tell my rabbi what happened and so on. "Then one day, we went out on recess and one of the kids got a hold of me. We were all in a circle. And he said, 'Why don't you tell one of your bullshit stories.' And from that day on—this was 1946, '47—I did not say a word, I would say, till about five, seven years ago." Listen and read more Episode 2 Leon Bass "Can you imagine? I put in three years of my life, put it on the line to make it possible for people like that young lady and that manager or whoever owned that store to function and enjoy the rights and privileges of Americans, and they were saying to me, just like the Nazis did, just like they told me down in the South, what they told my father, 'Leon, you're not good enough.'" Listen and read more Episode 3 Heda Kovaly "And they let us get out of the train to bring some water—the young people. So they said, 'Out and get the water.' And I remember how we got out of the train and there was some, a pile of gravel. And there was this beautiful flower growing out of this mess. And it was a purple, beautiful, gorgeous flower. And I thought, This is the last flower I'm going to see." Listen and read more Episode 4 Sally Horwitz "My sister came to get me because the communications were bad. She says they were killing Jewish people. They killed, at the time, some people in Kielce. And, um, my sister came to tell me that we have to get out of the small towns, because they were killing the Jewish people. This was after the war." Listen and read more Episode 5 Arne B. Lie "I, I was, of course, very scared. But I thought, Oh, this is something I'll get away with. I played innocent. And then they took me down to the Norwegian Nazi police headquarter. And there everything really changed." Listen and read more Episode 6 Renee Hartman "We lived on the fourth floor in the apartment. And my parents were both deaf. And I had a deaf sister. So I became the ears. I would have to warn them that the transport was coming. And what I would do is we would all rush in the back room. And when they knocked on the door, we didn’t answer. We were in the back room just trying to be as quiet as possible. And we used to live in terror of these boots." Listen and read more Episode 7 Leonard Linton "I drove there, and when I arrived, an incredible sight greeted me. You can imagine that a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne Division is a fairly hardened individual. However, when I came into this concentration camp, I must say that, to this day— and this was many years ago—an incredible and really undescribable disgust, a feeling, a mixture of horror, repulsion... I am not good enough in utilizing any language to describe this adequately." Listen and read more Episode 8 Celia Kassow — Part 1 "I can’t begin to tell it because what it meant to be in hiding. The guy made a hole under the floor in the barn. The hole consisted of maybe as wide as I was—two feet—and as long as I was. You couldn’t turn. If you crawled in on your stomach, you remained on your stomach. If you crawled in on your back, you remained on your back. Sometimes, when it was quiet, he would pull me out by my legs and give me a chance to straighten up my bones, and give me a little food." Listen and read more Episode 9 Celia Kassow — Part 2 "They wanted me to work in the kitchen, being a Jew and being a girl. They told me to dissect a pig. When I looked at that, and I started doing it, I fainted flat. I couldn’t do it. I said, 'I’m volunteering for the patrol.' They used to call it razvedka. They say, 'You? A Jewish girl in the patrol?' I say, 'Yes.' I was given a horse. I was given ammunition. And I was given an assignment." Listen and read more Episode 10 Sam Kassow In October 1945, Celia Kassow gave birth to her son Sam in a German displaced persons camp. Seventy-five years later, Sam Kassow reflects on his mother’s life and an astonishing journey of discovery to his mother’s hometown in Eastern Europe. Listen and read more Meet Our Production Team Eric Marcus Co-Producer Eric Marcus is the co-producer of “Those Who Were There.” He is also founder and host of the award-winning “Making Gay History” podcast, which mines his decades-old audio archive of rare interviews. He conducted these interviews for his oral history book of the same name about the LGBTQ civil rights movement to create intimate, personal portraits of both known and long-forgotten champions, heroes, and witnesses to history. Eric’s other books include Is It a Choice?, Why Suicide?, and Breaking the Surface, the #1 New York Times bestselling autobiography of Olympic diving champion Greg Louganis. Stephen Naron Co-Producer Stephen Naron has worked as an archivist/librarian since 2003, when he received his MSIS from the University of Texas, Austin. He pursued a Magister in Jewish studies and History at the Freie Universität Berlin and the Zentrum für Antisemistismusforschung at TU Berlin. He has a BA in history from the University of Kansas. As the director of the Fortunoff Video Archive, Stephen works within the wider research community to share access to our collection through the access site program and online consortia programs, as well as by presenting at conferences, symposiums, and sessions of Yale University classes. Stephen is also responsible for spearheading initiatives such as the digital preservation of the collection and the development of a modern access system for the archive’s materials. Nahanni Rous Co-Producer Nahanni Rous is the co-producer of “Those Who Were There.” She hosts and produces “Can We Talk?,” the podcast of the Jewish Women’s Archive. “Can We Talk?” explores the intersection of gender, Jewish culture, and history. Nahanni is also Senior Producer of Making Gay History, a podcast based on Eric Marcus's decades-old audio archive of interviews with LGBTQ activists. Nahanni was also a founding staff member of the media organization Just Vision, which highlights the grassroots efforts of Palestinian and Israeli peacebuilders and nonviolence activists. She was a producer of Just Vision’s documentary film, Encounter Point. Eleanor Reissa Host Eleanor Reissa is a Tony-nominated director, international concert artist, award-winning playwright, and Broadway actor whose work lives happily in both English and Yiddish. Her recent work includes co-creating, directing, and performing in From Shtetl to Stage, a celebration of Eastern European immigration to the United States as part of Carnegie Hall’s “Migrations” series. As an actress, her most recent credits include roles in HBO’s upcoming miniseries The Plot Against America, based on Philip Roth’s novel, and Paula Vogel’s Indecent on Broadway, as well as the role of Dr. Gorgeous in Wendy Wasserstein’s The Sisters Rosensweig. She performed her new program “Kurt Weill in New York” at the Kurt Weill Festival in Dessau, Germany. She is also awaiting publication of a memoir titled The Letters Project about an eye-opening trip to Germany during which she learned everything she might have wanted to know about the Holocaust and more. In the spring of 2020, she will direct Paddy Chayefsky’s The Tenth Man, which she co-translated into Yiddish, for the National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene. Eleanor is the daughter of Holocaust survivors. Eric Marcus Co-Producer Eric Marcus is the co-producer of “Those Who Were There.” He is also founder and host of the award-winning “Making Gay History” podcast, which mines his decades-old audio archive of rare interviews. He conducted these interviews for his oral history book of the same name about the LGBTQ civil rights movement to create intimate, personal portraits of both known and long-forgotten champions, heroes, and witnesses to history. Eric’s other books include Is It a Choice?, Why Suicide?, and Breaking the Surface, the #1 New York Times bestselling autobiography of Olympic diving champion Greg Louganis. Stephen Naron Co-Producer Stephen Naron has worked as an archivist/librarian since 2003, when he received his MSIS from the University of Texas, Austin. He pursued a Magister in Jewish studies and History at the Freie Universität Berlin and the Zentrum für Antisemistismusforschung at TU Berlin. He has a BA in history from the University of Kansas. As the director of the Fortunoff Video Archive, Stephen works within the wider research community to share access to our collection through the access site program and online consortia programs, as well as by presenting at conferences, symposiums, and sessions of Yale University classes. Stephen is also responsible for spearheading initiatives such as the digital preservation of the collection and the development of a modern access system for the archive’s materials. Nahanni Rous Co-Producer Nahanni Rous is the co-producer of “Those Who Were There.” She hosts and produces “Can We Talk?,” the podcast of the Jewish Women’s Archive. “Can We Talk?” explores the intersection of gender, Jewish culture, and history. Nahanni is also Senior Producer of Making Gay History, a podcast based on Eric Marcus's decades-old audio archive of interviews with LGBTQ activists. Nahanni was also a founding staff member of the media organization Just Vision, which highlights the grassroots efforts of Palestinian and Israeli peacebuilders and nonviolence activists. She was a producer of Just Vision’s documentary film, Encounter Point. Eleanor Reissa Host Eleanor Reissa is a Tony-nominated director, international concert artist, award-winning playwright, and Broadway actor whose work lives happily in both English and Yiddish. Her recent work includes co-creating, directing, and performing in From Shtetl to Stage, a celebration of Eastern European immigration to the United States as part of Carnegie Hall’s “Migrations” series. As an actress, her most recent credits include roles in HBO’s upcoming miniseries The Plot Against America, based on Philip Roth’s novel, and Paula Vogel’s Indecent on Broadway, as well as the role of Dr. Gorgeous in Wendy Wasserstein’s The Sisters Rosensweig. She performed her new program “Kurt Weill in New York” at the Kurt Weill Festival in Dessau, Germany. She is also awaiting publication of a memoir titled The Letters Project about an eye-opening trip to Germany during which she learned everything she might have wanted to know about the Holocaust and more. In the spring of 2020, she will direct Paddy Chayefsky’s The Tenth Man, which she co-translated into Yiddish, for the National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene. Eleanor is the daughter of Holocaust survivors. Treva Walsh Co-Producer Treva Walsh is the Collections Project Manager at the Museum of Jewish Heritage - A Living Memorial to the Holocaust in New York City, where she is responsible for managing the Museum's collection of 3,800 oral history interviews with Holocaust survivors, liberators, rescuers, and witnesses. Previously, she led the processing team at The HistoryMakers, the nation's largest African American video oral history archive. Treva studied Anthropology and Philosophy at the University of Chicago and is a core member of the audiovisual archiving group XFR Collective. Today’s Hours: 8:30am - 4:30pm Sterling Memorial Library, Room 331B 120 High Street New Haven CT 06511 fortunoff.archive@yale.edu About Us Research Fellowships Education News & Events Contact Us © 2020 FVAHT • Privacy Policy Made by  