Fortunoff Video Archive For Holocaust Testimonies About Us Our Story Founders Affiliate Projects Staff & Advisory Board Research Search the Archive Access Sites Use & Permissions Related Collections Fellowships Hartman Fellowship Call for Application – Hartman Fellowship 2021-2023 Rosenberg Fellowship Vlock Fellowship Laub Fellowship Fortunoff/VWI Fellowship Non-Residential Fellowships Past Fellows Education Curriculum Vlock Film Series Digital Humanities Podcasts Songs from Testimonies Edited Programs Publications Glimpses from Testimonies News & Events Past News & Events Event Recordings Contact Us Search Aviary for thousands of testimonies in our archive. Search help Holocaust Testimonies: The Ruins of Memory A Web Edition of Lawrence L. Langer's Pioneering Book Read & Watch Critical Editions Holocaust testimonies in historical context Read & Watch Cry, My Heart, Cry! Songs from Testimonies, Volume 2 Listen The Last Time I Saw Them A mini-documentary highlighting the profound impact family separation had on Holocaust survivors Watch Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies Explore more than 4,400 testimonies Search the Archive Find an Access Site The collection is available at dozens of access sites worldwide View Sites Fortunoff Visual Search A visual tool for discovery of testimonies Explore Visual Search Those Who Were There: Voices from the Holocaust A podcast series based on testimonies from the collection Listen Holocaust Testimonies: The Ruins of Memory A Web Edition of Lawrence L. Langer's Pioneering Book Read & Watch Archive The Fortunoff Archive’s collection consists of over 4,400 testimonies of Holocaust survivors, witnesses and liberators. Learn how to search the collection for materials relevant to your research. Includes step by step instructions on how to register in Aviary and access the collection. Search the Archive Fellowships The Fortunoff Archive actively encourages supports scholarship with the collection through its fellowship program. The archive offers several fellowships including a two-year fellowship for a postdoctoral scholar, as well as fellowships for doctoral candidates and senior scholars. Learn More Access Sites The Fortunoff Archive makes its collection available at dozens of access sites around the globe. Access Sites are generally institutions of higher learning, museums, and memorial sites. There is no cost to become an access site. Locate an Access Site From the Archive Vlock Fellowship I Am Free...But Who Is Left? A mother, a father, four brothers, and a sister live in Hrubieszów, Poland, a small town with a majority Jewish population. They thrive economically and academically despite antisemitism. Survivors of the family and the town describe the Nazi invasion, brutality, destruction, and murder. Personal photographs and documents enhance reflective first person accounts. Learn More Events Online Concert of Cry, My Heart, Cry: Songs from Testimonies On January 27, 2021, the Yale Institute for Sacred Music, Joseph Slifka Center for Jewish Life at Yale, and the Fortunoff Video Archive held a public, online performance of songs from Testimonies in the Fortunoff Video Archive, Volume Two. Watch Vlock Fellowship A Valts This animated short brings to life a Yiddish poem, A Valts (The Waltz) by A. Lutzky. Written in the interwar period, the poem was also sung to children in the Lodz ghetto. Watch as couples dance to a dirge that foretells life’s impermanence. Learn More Events Racism, Fascism and the Jim Crow Military On February 25, 2021, the Fortunoff Video Archive hosted an online lecture by PhD candidate Anna Duensing. Using the testimony of Leon Bass (HVT-1241), she examined the experiences of African-American service members who confronted the Nazi threat. Watch Songs From Testimonies Episode 13: Ani Ma'amin A look at the song "Ani Ma'amin," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Irene S., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by Omer Bartov, professor at Brown University Watch Events Ten Years of "The Wonder of Their Voices": The Future of the Boder Collection The Fortunoff Video Archive hosted a discussion with author Alan Rosen and Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) library and archive staff, Adam Strohm and Mindy Pugh, about the work of psychologist and interviewer David Boder. Watch Songs From Testimonies Episode 12: Badkhen's Song A look at the "Badkhen's Song," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Jack M., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by songwriter and filmmaker Josh Waletzky Watch Songs From Testimonies Episode 11: Treblinka Survival Song A look at the song "Treblinka Survival Song," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Irene S., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by Samuel D. Kassow, professor at Trinity College. Watch Podcast SE02E10: Judith Perlaki Teenaged Judith Perlaki recalled cheating death twice after being deported from Hungary to Auschwitz. But most of her family wasn’t so fortunate. Listen Songs From Testimonies Episode 10: W pociągu jest tłok A look at the song "W pociągu jest tłok," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Peretz H., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by author Krzysztof Czyżewski. Watch Songs From Testimonies Episode 9: Polish Army Songs Episode 9 features Polish Army Songs, drawn from the testimony of Jack M. (HVT-1555). Jack M. learned these two songs from his fellow soldiers and officers in his regiment. Watch Podcast SE02E09: Elias Recanati When the Germans took control of the Greek city of Salonika, Elias Racanati’s family had one chance to escape—his mother’s family hailed from Spain. But they had to cross German-occupied Europe to get there. Listen Songs from Testimonies Episode 8: Płaszów Inmates’ Song This song is based on a poem drawn from the testimony of Ruth C. (HVT-3793), who was born in Kraków, Poland in 1920. Ruth remembers singing this song in Płaszów concentration camp, but she cannot recall the melody. Watch Songs from Testimonies Episode 7: Stepan Episode 7 features Stepan-blondin. This song is based on a poem drawn from the testimony of Liubov’ K. (HVT-3280). This is a ballad telling the story of the inmates escaping the labor camp to the village (possibly to get food) and their cruel guard Stepan. Liubov’ recites it as a poem in her testimony, with no melody. Watch Podcast SE02E08: Malka Baran Malka Baran expressed her love of children by caring for a toddler hidden in the barracks of a concentration camp and teaching first grade at her DP camp. It was the start of her lifelong commitment to early-childhood education. Listen Songs from Testimonies Episode 6: Proschai A look at the song "Proschai," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Liubov' K., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by Dr. Sarah Garibova, Former Fortunoff Video Archive Hartman Fellow. Watch Podcast SE02E07: Leon Pommers Fleeing Warsaw ahead of the invading Nazis, concert pianist Leon Pommers was propelled into a perilous journey around the world in hopes of reuniting with his sister in America. Listen Songs From Testimonies Episode 5: Tuchi Nad Budyschem Vstali A look at the song "Tuchi Nad Budyschem Vstali," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Liubov' K., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by Dr. Sarah Garibova, Former Fortunoff Video Archive Hartman Fellow. Watch Songs From Testimonies Episode 4: In Dem Kleinem Dorf A look at the song "In Dem Kleinem Dorf," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Liubov' K., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by Dr. Sarah Garibova, Former Fortunoff Video Archive Hartman Fellow. Watch Podcast SE02E06: Esther Schwartzman As Polish Jews fled across the border into Hungary bearing stories of Nazi atrocities, Esther Schwartzman’s family and community didn’t believe that such things could happen to them. Then in early 1944, everything changed. Listen Songs From Testimonies Episode 3: Trayb Di Khvalyes A look at "Trayb Di Khvalyes" from Songs From Testimonies. Listen to a clip of survivor Jack M., a performance by the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble & Sasha Lurje, and commentary by D. Zisl Slepovitch and Eléonore Biezunski, Associate Sound Archivist, YIVO Institute for Jewish Research. Watch Podcast SE02E05: Abram Merczynski When Abram Merczynski’s brother organized an orchestra in the Lodz ghetto, Abram promised himself that if he survived the war, he’d learn to play the violin. He lived—and kept his promise. Listen Songs From Testimonies Episode 2: Kadima A look at the song "Kadima," from Songs From Testimonies, including a clip of the survivor Itzchak S., a performance of the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble, and analysis by William Lee Frost Professor of Jewish History at Harvard, Derek Penslar. Watch Podcast SE02E04: Helen Jonas Deported to the Plaszów concentration camp, Helen Jonas faced almost certain death. Instead, she was chosen by Amon Göth—the camp’s notorious, brutal commandant—to be his servant. Listen Edited Program The Last Time I Saw Them Five Holocaust survivors describe the terror of being separated from their parents in this short documentary that draws on recorded testimonies from the Fortunoff Video Archive, historic images, and family photographs. Watch News & Events Subscribe Vlock Fellow Yulia Ruditskaya premiers The Waltz, a film based on Fortunoff testimonies at the Toronto Jewish Film Festival We are delighted to announce that one of the films in our Vlock Film Series, The Waltz, will be screened at the Toronto Jewish Film Festival in June. More information on the screening is available here: https://tjff.com/films/the-waltz/ The Waltz is based on the poem by A. Lutzky, pen name of the Yiddish poet Aaron Zucker (1894-1957), set to music by D. Zisl Slepovitch and performed by the Zisl Slepovitch Ensemble and Sasha Lurje as part of the Fortunoff Archive’s Songs from Testimonies project. Lutzky was born in Ukraine and immigrated to New York in the 1910s. In the poem, [...] Read more News Online Symposium: Fortunoff Video Archive Annual Research Symposium, 2022 Read More News On the Russian Invasion of Ukraine and Vladimir Putin's Abuse of Language Read More News Summer Virtual Institute for Teachers: Holocaust Testimony and Historical Comparisons Read More For more news & events click here Permission to Publish Permission to Publish from the Archive Permission is required to publish quotations from testimonies in articles, conference papers, and other works. Request Permission Licensing Requests Request Information about Licensing Licensing from the Fortunoff Archive is required to use visual, video or audio excerpts from testimonies in podcasts, films or videos. About Licensing Publication Database Publication Database Find texts that cite testimony, and obtain links to the original recording. A perfect resource for teaching seminal texts, such as Lawrence Langer's Ruins from Memory. Explore Publications Today’s Hours: 8:30am - 4:30pm Sterling Memorial Library, Room 331B 120 High Street New Haven CT 06511 fortunoff.archive@yale.edu About Us Research Fellowships Education News & Events Contact Us © 2020 FVAHT • Privacy Policy Made by  