Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Shaping the Student Experience Investing in programs beyond the classroom » Shaping the Student Experience Investing in programs beyond the classroom Specialized support The student experience at Wichita State University goes beyond the classroom. It also is found in the galleries of the Edwin A. Ulrich Museum of Art, over the air waves of KMUW Public Radio, and on the playing fields and courts where we cheer on our Shocker student-athletes. Investing in students also means supporting University Libraries and giving to the donor groups dedicated to providing students exceptional opportunities. Want to learn more? Simply hover and click on the specialized support area you are interested in below. Athletics Learn More Athletics Learn More Edwin A. Ulrich Museum of Art Learn More Edwin A. Ulrich Museum of Art Learn More KMUW Learn More KMUW Learn More Ablah Library Learn More Ablah Library Learn More Donor Groups Learn More Donor Groups Learn More 8.11.21 University Libraries an indispensable resource for Wichita State Read More 5.30.20 Scholarships enhance college experience for Anna Wade Read More 7.14.20 Love and legacy Read More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter