Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Deliver The Gift Of Education 2020 Scholarship Celebration: Lia Savage describes how scholarships made her education possible. » Deliver The Gift Of Education 2020 Scholarship Celebration: Lia Savage describes how scholarships made her education possible. You can change someone’s destiny By endowing a scholarship, you have the potential to make a profound impact on the lives of future generations of young men and women. The scholarship you create can mean the difference between someone attending Wichita State or dropping out for lack of financial support. As public funding of higher education decreases, scholarships are more crucial than ever before to help make college affordable for each and every person who wants an education. Let’s inspire the next generation together. A group of WSU first-generation students gather in Rhatigan Student Center. How to give to scholarships There are many ways to support students through scholarships. Our most urgent need is support for students with financial need. We can also help you endow a scholarship for an academic area or program important to you. Geographic-based scholarships are a way to support students from a specific area of the state. When you establish a scholarship, you designate what you want to support, select the type of recipient you have in mind, and much more. Learn More Every endowed fund tells a story The Spirit of the Gift project catalogs the histories behind the hundreds of endowed scholarships, fellowships and non-scholarship funds established at Wichita State University. Each biographical sketch provides interesting details about who created these gifts and why. Learn More WSU student Amira Coleman with Marilyn Benyshek at the 2020 WSU Scholarship Celebration. Grati-WU Week Students connect with donors WSU students who receive scholarships are encouraged to participate in events held during Grati-WU Week, hosted by the WSU Foundation. By writing a note of gratitude and sharing a bit about their educational journey, students help demonstrate the tremendous impact their scholarship makes. Learn More Are you searching for scholarship information? Various forms of financial aid can make student’s education at Wichita State more affordable. We are grateful for all of the donors who have set up a current or endowed scholarship to help meet the financial needs of students. The buttons below are quick links to scholarship information. Wichita.edu Scholarships Wichita.edu Scholarship Guidelines Spirit of the Gift - Endowed Scholarship Bios 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter