CAMPAIGN About the Campaign Key Initiatives UC Health Emergency Department UC Cancer Center Scholarships Recognition Ways to Give IMPACT Impact Stories UC student lifted by fellow Bearcats A Piece of History “Doc” ensures student-athletes are cared for Former UC Football Captain Supports Football Program Sisters and Bearcats Empower Our Next Leaders Explore Our Next Frontier Embrace Our Next Purpose Colleges Collaborate to Treat Depression Honoring a Daughter's Memory Finding Common Ground Donors Provide Scholarship Support and Real-World Experience Mallows met at UC; Now They Focus on Giving Back IMPACT Innovation at UC Legacy of Learning Preserving a Legacy Providing Elementary Students a Chance to Succeed Endowment Fund Supports Department of History Honoring a Legacy Giving Back to First Generation Students Preserving a Passion DAAP Student Makes Bold Moves Thanks to Donor Support Investing in Others Supporting the Future A Nontraditional Journey A Legacy Continued Sweet Support Expanding Horizons Getting Back in the Pool A Gift for the Future Making a Musician Scholarships solved the puzzle to success Lindner Professor Uses Analytics to Solve Problems Annual Report Videos NEWS Press Releases Huffman Foundation gift UC Foundation Trustee Gifts $3 Million to Carl H. Lindner College of Business Couple makes $9 million gift to University of Cincinnati Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati Launches UC Emergency Funds Raise Over $55,000 News | Donation expands UC Health testing capabilities for COVID-19 2021 New Trustees UC Day of Giving a Success UCAA Day of Giving Downtown mural Endowed Professorship News Archive Mantei Center ABOUT About Us Careers Staff President Board Anti-Racist Statement Brand Guide SEARCH GIVE NOW University of Cincinnati Foundation Privacy Policy Purpose Our alumni and supporters are extremely important to us, and this Privacy Notice explains how The University of Cincinnati Foundation (UCF) collects, stores, manages and protects your data. It outlines the types of data that we hold and how we use them to provide services to our alumni, prospects, grateful patients and supporters. We aim to be clear when we collect your personal information, and not do anything you would not reasonably expect. About Us UCF, through contact with alumni, grateful patients and supporters of the University of Cincinnati, UC Health and Lindner Center of Hope, fundraises for the economic support of these institutions. We do this by offering a range events and fundraising efforts. We fundraise to support the organization’s students, teaching, research, and capital projects. In order to do this, we have two databases that contain personal data collected during the course of our relationship with students, alumni, donors, grateful patients, prospects and supporters. Alumni Initially, data about students are transferred into our database from the student record system upon graduation from the University of Cincinnati. The vast majority of the information we hold is obtained directly from you; and if you interact with any other departments, divisions, schools or faculties within the University we may receive data from these areas. Supporters Information about supporters is recorded at the receipt of gift or event registration. This includes demographic information, the area to which you chose your gift to support, preferences for communication, preferences for event attendance (meal options, etc) and applicable gift information including payment method, credit card type etc. We do not store credit card numbers. Prospects Information about individuals who may have an interest in supporting the university, UC Health or Lindner Center of Hope are obtained by referrals from volunteers, public information and bought lists. This information is reviewed and may or may not be entered into the UC Foundation fundraising database. Grateful Patient Donors Patients that have been identified through Protected Health Information (PHI), solicited and made a gift have their information recorded in UC Health’s fundraising database. This database is maintained in the electronic confines of UC Health. The information contained within is available only to those who represent UC Health and are named on a Business Associates Agreement between UC Health and UC Foundation. This information is not shared with the University. Grateful Patient Prospects On a daily basis UC Foundation, on behalf of UC Health, wealth screens the patient census of UC Health. This information is used to identify those patients who both have an interest and capacity to support UC Health. Patients opt-in to this process at the time of registration and may opt out at any time. The information provided includes: Name, Address; Phone, Email, Date of Birth, Insurance Status, Treating Physician, Location, Department and Date of Service. Patients who are determined to be potential prospects are recorded in Raiser’s Edge for future solicitation. Data Information Data Health & Research We always aim to keep your details up to date, and we will conduct projects to check the contact details we have for you are correct, and, where appropriate, update them. As a result, some of the data may also have been obtained from publicly available sources – for example, we may find a new address for you by using the US Postal Service’s National Change of Address database (NCOA). We may also use information from publicly available sources to carry out research to assess your inclination and capacity to support the University, UC Health or Lindner Center of Hope financially or by volunteering your time. More information on these activities is below and you will always have the right to opt out. We value our relationship with you and we use your personal data to ensure we contact you in the most appropriate way, improve our services and to ensure we work efficiently and effectively. Our ethical guidelines As part of our work we process and store personal information relating to students, staff, alumni, current and potential supporters and friends of the University and we therefore adhere to best practices in protecting your data. We take our responsibilities seriously and ensure the personal information we obtain is held, used, transferred and processed in accordance with our internal policies. As a fundraising organization, we also subscribe to the Donor Bill of Rights, published by the Council for the Advancement of Secondary Education (CASE) To be informed of the organization's mission, of the way the organization intends to use donated resources, and of its capacity to use donations effectively for their intended purposes. To be informed of the identity of those serving on the organization's governing board, and to expect the board to exercise prudent judgment in its stewardship responsibilities. To have access to the organization's most recent financial statements. To be assured their gifts will be used for the purposes for which they were given. To receive appropriate acknowledgment and recognition. To be assured that information about their donations is handled with respect and with confidentiality to the extent provided by law. To expect that all relationships with individuals representing organizations of interest to the donor will be professional in nature. To be informed whether those seeking donations are volunteers, employees of the organization or hired solicitors. To have the opportunity for their names to be deleted from mailing lists that an organization may intend to share. To feel free to ask questions when making a donation and to receive prompt, truthful and forthright answers. Purposes for using your data Communicating with students, staff, alumni, and current and potential supporters; Providing benefits and services to students, staff, alumni and supporters; Furthering the University’s educational charitable mission (which includes fundraising and securing the support of volunteers); Enabling the University to achieve its strategic and operational goals. Communication methods We may pursue these legitimate interests by contacting you by telephone, email, post or social media. Information about how you can manage the ways that we contact you, including how to opt out from some or all contact from UCF, is outlined in the ‘Your rights’ section below. Data we maintain UCF maintains a record of all University alumni and, as such, we hold education records in perpetuity. Graduation information is published each year and is therefore considered to be in the public domain. If we become aware that your name has changed we will update our records to reflect this. The personal data we store and process, the majority of which is given to us by our alumni, grateful patients, prospects and supporters but some of which we may obtain from other sources, may include: name, title, gender and date of birth; contact details including postal address, email address, phone number and links to social media accounts; information about your time at the University and other academic institutions; your occupation and professional activities; your recreations and interests; family and spouse/partner details and your relationships to other alumni, supporters and friends; records of donations and event registration records of communications sent to you by UCF or received from you; volunteering by you; information about your wealth; media articles about you; information on your engagement in University meetings, events, groups or networks; information about your engagement with UC Health. You may choose not to provide certain information to us; however, provision of such information is sometimes necessary for us to be able to perform our services. If you do not provide such necessary information, or if you delete or remove it, we may not be able to perform services for you and you may not be able to access or use certain elements of our website or other resources. We reserve the right to store your information for the amount of time we reasonably determine to be necessary in order to perform the purposes for which that information was collected or otherwise processed. UCF does not store any credit/debit card details and is fully PCI-DSS compliant. Bank details used for processing credit cards are stored by a trusted third-party. How we use your data Sending publications; Notification of alumni events; Fundraising campaigns; Promotion of discounts and services. UCF may use third-party partners to support the activities described above. If you interact with the University through a third party (for example, supporting through a crowdfunding page) then we may obtain information about you from that third party. The receipt of data by the UCF manner is subject to the third party’s own privacy policy. A list of parties with whom we partner in this way is available on request. Data obtained in this way are treated no differently to any other once held by UCF, and are bound by the terms of this Privacy Notice as soon as they are received. Tools may be used to help us improve the effectiveness of the University’s communications with you, including tracking whether the emails we send are opened and which links are clicked within a message. We monitor website visits and use tools such as Google Analytics to improve our website and services. Wealth screening, data analysis and updating your contact details As we are a fundraising institution, we may gather information about you from publicly available sources to help us to understand more about you as an individual and your ability to support the University, UC Health and Lindner Center of Hope, including financially. We may carry out wealth screening, a process which uses trusted third-party partners to automate some of this work. You will always have the right to opt out of this processing. We may use information gathered from public sources or other departments alongside the information you provide to undertake analysis of who might support efforts and to understand the preferences of our alumni, supporters, donors, grateful patients and prospects about events, communication and services. By doing this, we can focus conversations we have with you about fundraising and volunteering in the most effective way, and ensure that we provide you with an experience as an alumnus/na, donor or potential donor which is appropriate for you. We also use publicly available sources to carry out due diligence on donors in line with the University’s Gift Acceptance Policy. If you provide us with contact details for a particular method of communication we will assume that you have given us your consent for us to update your record and communicate with you using this information, unless you have told us otherwise. Contact details provided directly by you will update any previous preferences in relation to this channel unless you inform us otherwise. GDPR UCF acts in compliance with all applicable aspects of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) as it applies to EU citizens and their data and data collected from within the EU. Transparency in data collection and storage of your private information is a major consideration for all of our processes. Please see the “Your rights” section below for additional details about rights you may have with respect to your data. EU citizens who would like to inquire about UCF compliance or make requests within the GDPR framework may contact UCF directly. International Transfer Your information, including personally identifiable information, may be transferred to and maintained on computers located outside of your state, province, country, or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from your jurisdiction. If you are located outside the United States and choose to provide information to us, please note we transfer your information, including personally identifiable information, to the United States and process it there. Your submission of information to us represents your consent to that transfer. Please note the EU has not adopted an adequacy decision with respect to data transfers to the United States, nor are we a participant in the EU-US Privacy Shield; however, we value your privacy and protect your data using reasonable information security practices. California “Do Not Track” Disclosures We do not collect personally identifiable information about users’ online activities over time and across third-party web sites or online services. For this reason, at this time, the Site does not respond to “do not track” signals. Third parties may collect personally identifiable information through the Site as described in this Privacy Policy. Protecting your data We are committed to holding your data securely and treating them with sensitivity. Your data are held on a database hosted on a secure server with Blackbaud or with UC Health. These databases are protected by authentication and access is restricted to individuals who need to see the data to carry out their duties. User access rights to the database are restricted according to individual job roles in order to ensure that users only see information relevant to them. This access is reviewed on a regular basis. Unless we have a legal obligation to do so, we will not disclose your data to individuals, organizations or other entities outside other than those which are acting as agents for the University (for example, the company which prints and sends our annual alumni magazine). All external entities with whom data are being shared and to whom we are not legally bound must sign a contract and/or a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement before any data transfer takes place. We do not sell to or trade your data with any other organizations. Your rights UCF considers its relationship with alumni and supporters to be lifelong, and we will hold your details until you tell us you no longer wish to hear from us. We will always try to ensure that the data we hold for you are up to date, reasonable and not excessive. You will always have the right to: Be informed as to how we use your data (via this Privacy Notice); Access or request a copy of the data we hold about you; Update, amend or rectify the data we hold about you – you can manage your own data<insert link> Change your communication preferences at any time to restrict how we process your data, or opt out of some or all communication from UCF; Ask us to remove your identifiable data from our records or object to how we use your information; Withdraw your consent for us to process your personal information in some circumstances; In some jurisdictions, lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority We reserve the right to ask for information verifying your identity prior to disclosing any information to you. Should we ask for verification, the information you provide to verify your identity will be used only for that purpose, and all copies of this information in our possession will be destroyed when the process is complete. If you have any questions about this Privacy Notice, or would like change how we communicate with you, please contact us at: The University of Cincinnati Foundation P.O. Box 19970 Cincinnati, OH 45219-0970 If you would like to receive UC Health’s Privacy Notice or opt out of UC Health’s fundraising efforts, please contact us at: UC Health Privacy Office 3200 Burnet Avenue Cincinnati, OH 45229 (513) 585-7155. Future changes From time to time, we may use your information for new purposes not currently described in this Privacy Notice. If our information practices change at some time in the future, we will always post the policy changes on this page. Last updated on: 2/18/2019 Quick Links UC Home Alumni Association Campaign UC Bicentennial UC Health Contact Us The University of Cincinnati Foundation PO Box 19970 Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-6781 | 888-556-8889 513-556-4300 (fax) ucfoundation@uc.edu University Hall, Suite 100 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45219 Stay in Touch Like being the first to know? You’ll get timely updates on news, events and more from the UC Foundation. Subscribe Careers UC Foundation Privacy Policy Instagram Facebook Youtube Twitter LinkedIn