Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Spirit of the Gift Turning dreams into reality with 1,200 endowed scholarships » Spirit of the Gift Turning dreams into reality with 1,200 endowed scholarships Giving Feels Good The Spirit of the Gift project is an effort to catalog the histories behind the hundreds of endowed scholarships, fellowships and non-scholarship funds at Wichita State University. Each biographical sketch strives to reveal interesting details about who created these gifts and why. They also are a way for donors to share their personal beliefs, professional philosophies, inspirations and aspirations. In many cases, they are a way for donors to give back to the university that gave so much to them. To explore this project, search for particular gift below or navigate through the pages. The gifts are arranged in alphabetical order. Generic selectors Exact matches only Exact matches only Search in title Search in title Search in content Search in content Search in excerpt Post Type Selectors Hidden 1993 Undergraduate Program Student Scholarship A. Edward Clifford Endowed Geology Fund 1993 Undergraduate Program Student Scholarship A.J. and Jean Bachus Scholarship Abbott Aerospace Composites, LLC Endowed Scholarship Fund Abercrombie Employee Scholars Endowed Fund Abercrombie Scholars Endowed Fund Ace Award Endowed Scholarship Adra C. Jones Endowed Scholarship Adrease Confer Education Scholarship Adrian E. Pouliot Scholarship Fund AEGD Resident Professional Development Fund AIFAM Scholarship Air Capitol Alumni, Alpha Kappa Psi Scholarship Airbus North American Engineering Inc. Aerospace Engineering Scholarship Al and Ambur (Miller) Alfaro Scholarship in Dental Hygiene Al and Dolly Nagel Memorial Endowed Scholarship Al and Donna Littleton Endowed Golf Scholarship Al Reid Endowed Fellowship Alan & Roberta Whetzel Scholarship in Business Alan Yeary Endowed Scholarship in Mathematics Albert & Marian Katzenmeyer Scholarship Alberta Davida Otto Scholarship in Organ Aleta and Marvin Gile Endowed Piano Scholarship Alex and Genevieve Petroff Memorial Scholarship Fund Alfred S. and Esther U. Perry Endowed Memorial Scholarship 1 2 3 … 52 » 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter