Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Philanthropic Support Fee Facts » Philanthropic Support Fee Facts The WSU Foundation is an independent and private organization that receives only 2.4% of its operating budget from a contract-for-service with the University. Therefore, 5% of all money raised is invested in the capacity of our staff to increase private support provided to WSU. Why are fees necessary? Wichita State University needs private funding to provide students the best educational experience possible. It costs money to secure and to manage that funding. As the state of Kansas grapples with budget challenges, state appropriations to Wichita State University continue to shrink as a portion of its annual budget. The WSU Foundation has been asked to increase private contributions to offset this and to keep WSU on the cutting edge of educational opportunities. In addition, there are costs associated with conducting business such as gift processing, record-keeping, and audits. The Foundation is an independent and private organization. In 1974, its small staff was able to raise enough private money to provide $18,000 in scholarships and $106,000 in university support. In 2019, a staff of 45 raised and managed more than $8 million in scholarships and almost $16 million in university support. We must invest in the capacity of this staff to increase the support provided to WSU. What are the Philanthropic Support fees? As an independent organization, fees are necessary to support the Foundation’s essential work in helping the university grow. The Philanthropic Support fee structure is periodically reviewed and approved by its Board of Directors. Currently, the Foundation has three distinct fees: Endowment Administrative Fee On July 1 of each year all endowment funds are charged a 1.65 percent fee that is based on a 20 quarter rolling average of the market value. Liquidation Fee The Foundation assesses a liquidation fee on estate gifts received. Philanthropic Support Fee A one-time fee of 5 percent is assessed on all incoming gifts, including endowments gifts, capital building and capital equipment gifts. For example, if someone makes a gift of $1,000, $50 goes to the Foundation for operating costs and $950 goes to the purpose designated by the donor. Do other foundations have similar fees? The WSU Foundation did extensive research and comparison of public institutions and found that 85 percent of those surveyed assess an endowment administrative fee and 62 percent assess a gift fee. Gift fees for those surveyed range from 1 percent to 10 percent. The Council for the Advancement and Support of Education conducts similar surveys. In its FY19 survey of institutionally related foundations, it found that 95 percent of those responding who support research/doctoral universities assess an endowment administrative fee and that 54 percent assess a gift fee to help cover the costs of foundation operations. Does the Philanthropic Support fee apply to pledge payments? Payments on pledges established prior to July 1, 2015, are not subject to the Philanthropic Support fee. The exception to this is on pledges of capital buildings and equipment, for which an assessment fee went into place July 1, 2014. Do the fees affect my tax deduction? These fees do not affect the deductibility of your gift. Are there exceptions? The Philanthropic Support fee does not apply to gifts-in-kind. Additionally, since WSU Athletics, KMUW, and the WSU Alumni Association pay for their own fundraising staffs, gifts to those organizations aren’t assessed a Philanthropic Support fee. Download Fee Structure Overview 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter