Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Your Gift Is An Investment In The Future Klepper Community Leader Scholarship helped Joshua Villa pursue his educational dreams » Your Gift Is An Investment In The Future Klepper Community Leader Scholarship helped Joshua Villa pursue his educational dreams You can change someone's life No matter the size, your gift is an investment in Wichita State. It says you believe in a bright future for your university and want to help it succeed. Whether you direct your giving to academics, facilities, fine arts or any of the hallmarks of Shocker excellence, you are building on a proud tradition of private support that helps make Wichita State the extraordinary place it is today. Thank you for being part of our story. Hear from Vic and Junetta Everett, two WSU Alumni who continue to support their alma mater. How to give Check/Cash – A gift can be made in many forms, including cash, money order, bank draft and more. Mail – Make checks payable to the WSU Foundation at 1845 Fairmount, Campus Box 2, Wichita, KS 67260-0002. Online – Make an online gift through Visa, American Express, Discover and MasterCard. Text – You can text your gift to 52014 then in the message add @shockers, the gift amount and fund name. It will take you to our text giving page. Crowdfunding – We have a number of crowdfunding initiatives that start and end at various times throughout the year. For more information about starting a crowdfunding campaign for Wichita State email us at foundation@wichita.edu. Matching – Many companies encourage donations to higher education and will match the amount you give, which doubles your impact. Before making your gift, check to see if your company provides matching contributions. Give Now Planned giving How important are planned gifts to Wichita State University? Twenty seven percent of all philanthropic funds came from estate gifts during fiscal year 2019. Our free estate planning guide and monthly newsletter are helpful resources. Bequests – You can make a gift through your will or trust and lessen the burden of taxes on your family. IRA Charitable Rollover – Allows anyone age 70 1/2 and older to reduce your taxable income by making a gift directly from your IRA. Charitable Gift Annuity – An annuity gift allows you to transfer your cash and property to our organization. We make a fixed payment to you for life at a rate based on your age. Beneficiary Designation Gifts – You can designate us as a beneficiary of a retirement, investment or bank account or your life insurance policy. Learn more Commencement is a memorable event for WSU graduates. Corporate support helps make the Shocker New Venture Competition a success each year. Corporate and foundation relations By partnering with Wichita State, your company or foundation will collaborate with the brightest minds to solve industry problems or address challenges facing our world. Corporate Recognition Contacts Become a Partner Memorials and honors Open Memorials – Memorials create a legacy for the individual being honored, while also providing much-needed resources for Wichita State. Give to a Memorial – Making a gift to honor a loved one or recognize someone special in your life is a meaningful way to support Wichita State. Create a Memorial – We help families establish opportunities to remember their loved one and their love for Wichita State. Tribute Giving – A tribute gift can be made to celebrate a birthday, anniversary or special occasion to someone special in your life. Honorary Gifts – You can create a gift in honor of a respected mentor or friend. These donations pay tribute to the person who meant so much to you. Give to a Memorial The impact of generosity Supporting Wichita State takes many forms. These are just a few examples of how our alumni and friends are making Wichita State stronger through their unique gifts. 8.11.21 University Libraries an indispensable resource for Wichita State Read More 9.28.20 Notable Donor News Read More 12.8.20 Frank Carney’s entrepreneurial legacy sprang in part from his time at Wichita State Read More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter