Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Turn Your Passion Into A Career » Turn Your Passion Into A Career Come work with us When you join our team, you become part of a group dedicated to advancing Wichita State University and its mission to serve students while contributing to the prosperity of our community and region. Our core values of integrity, teamwork, relationships and service guide the work we do and help create a supportive, dynamic work environment. Want to learn more? Check out our most recent job opportunities below. 51 employees 15 students 11,059 donors supported Job opportunities Associate Director of Development – Barton School of Business The Wichita State University Foundation is looking to hire a talented individual as an Associate Director of Development with our fundraising team. This position will work toward promoting gifts to benefit the Barton School of Business. This individual will be responsible for the identification, cultivation, solicitation, and stewardship of prospective and present donors to Wichita State University. With more than 45 staff working in direct fundraising, accounting and gift records, research, communications, donor relations, and support roles, the WSU Foundation is the premier fundraising operation in the region. This fiscal year the WSU Foundation raised more than $53 million and we are gearing up for our next campaign. This is an exciting time at WSU with the expansion of both programs and facilities. Minimum Requirements for the position include: • Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution • 1-3 years of development or Major Gifts experience • Must be willing to travel with occasional weekend and evening work • Must have and maintain a valid driver’s license and insurance • Commitment to the WSU Foundation core values of Integrity, Service, Teamwork, and Relationships • Project professional image at all times • Strong relationship building skills Skills: • Excellent organizational, interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills • Highly motivated and ability to work effectively independently and as part of a team • Maintain confidentiality of information, records, and materials Preferred Requirements: • Experience in fundraising within a higher education setting • Experience managing budgets • Knowledge of Wichita State University and a commitment to higher education The WSU Foundation offers outstanding benefits including medical/dental/vision (100% premium paid for employee/50% for dependents), term life insurance, tuition reimbursement, 8.5% company matching on retirement accounts after one year, and more. The WSU Foundation believes in the power of education. Since 1965, we have worked to connect the students, faculty, and staff of Wichita State University with the resources they need to transform their communities. Our dedicated staff includes members of the development, annual fund, finance, support, and student teams. We have accomplished big goals in the last few years and don’t plan to slow down anytime soon. To Apply: Please fill out an application, submit your resume and a cover letter explaining your interests in, and qualifications for, the position by clicking here. To Apply: Interested? Please fill out an application and submit your resume and cover letter. We’ll assess your qualifications and reach out if we see a good fit! Application Priority is May 30, 2022. WSU Foundation is an Equal Opportunity Employer Senior Director of Prospect Development The Wichita State University Foundation is excited to begin the search for a Senior Director of Prospect Development. This brand new, strategic position will further the investment in our excellent research team and build new capabilities for the future. The Senior Director will report to our Vice President of Finance and Operations and will lead the Prospect Development team to expand our impact through portfolio development, research, and prioritization. Responsibilities for this position include: Leading a team to implement a comprehensive program that includes proactive and reactive prospect identification; donor research; wealth and giving capacity assessments; market research; data mining; and assessment of related vendor screening products and relationships. Using effective relationship skills, acting as a connection point between a strong data analytics team and an effective fundraising team to build a pipeline of donors to Wichita State University. Working with fundraising leaders, consulting on portfolio management, metrics, benchmarking, and tracking. Our Prospect Development team has deep knowledge of the initiatives of Wichita State University and their work focuses our resources to connect the right donors to the right opportunities at the right time. The ideal candidate for this position will be able to think strategically, influence peers through data storytelling, and move our organization forward with analytic and predictive skills. We welcome candidates who have experience within and beyond higher education who embrace our mission and wish to have a real impact on advancing the future of Wichita State University. Minimum requirements for the position include: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university 10+ years’ experience in prospect development, data analytics, or marketing Demonstrated success in a team-management/supervisor role Expertise and facility with wealth screening, data mining, donor modeling, and data analytics techniques, tools, and platforms. Ability to distill and explain complex information in a variety of formats and a high level of attention to detail, accuracy, and thoroughness. Curiosity and an enthusiasm for problem solving Knowledge of CRM database management systems and reporting applications. Proficient in Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and the ability to learn new software. Commitment to the WSU Foundation core values: Integrity, Service, Teamwork, and Relationships Preferred requirements: Prior fundraising experience in a university setting Knowledge of Wichita State University and a commitment to higher education We offer outstanding benefits including time off for vacation, sick leave, and volunteering. We also offer top-tier medical/dental/vision coverage (100% premium paid for employee/50% for dependents), term life insurance, short and long term disability, tuition reimbursement, 8.5% company matching on retirement accounts after one year, and more. Think this sounds like your dream job? Follow the link below to fill out an application and send any questions to Katie.Link@wichita.edu We can’t wait to meet you! To Apply: Please fill out an application, submit your resume and a cover letter explaining your interests in, and qualifications for, the position by clicking here. Priority application deadline: December 10, 2021 WSU Foundation is an EOE employer Associate Director of Gift Processing The Wichita State University Foundation is looking to hire a talented, highly motivated individual as an Associate Director of Gift Processing with our Finance and Administration Team. This individual will be responsible for all functions related to gift processing to support the fund-raising efforts for the Foundation. With more than 45 staff working in direct fundraising, accounting and gift records, research, communications, donor relations and support roles, the WSU Foundation is the premier fundraising operation in the region. This past fiscal year the WSU Foundation raised more than $60 million. This is an exciting time at WSU with expansion of both programs and facilities. Minimum Requirements for the position include: Associate Degree Two years entry level accounting experience High level of attention to details Maintain confidentiality of information, records, and materials Commitment to the WSU Foundation core values of Integrity, Service, Teamwork and Relationships Project professional image at all times Skills Required: Proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite Detailed oriented and ability to complete work accurately. Excellent organizational, interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills. Maintain confidentiality of information, records, and materials. Highly motivated and ability to work effectively independently and as part of a team. Experience working with Blackbaud The WSU Foundation also offers outstanding benefits including medical/dental/vision (100% premium paid for employee/50% for dependents), term life insurance, tuition reimbursement, 8.5% company matching on retirement accounts after one year, 16 days in vacation accruals as well as 8 paid holidays, and more. To Apply: Please fill out an application, submit your resume and a cover letter explaining your interests in, and qualifications for, the position by clicking here. Application Priority is May 17, 2022 WSU Foundation is an Equal Opportunity Employer Staff Accountant The Wichita State University Foundation is looking to hire a talented, highly motivated individual as a Staff Accountant with our Finance and Administration Team. This individual will be responsible for preparing monthly financials, managing reports, budgets, and stewardship of funds report. With more than 45 staff working in direct fundraising, accounting and gift records, research, communications, donor relations and support roles, the WSU Foundation is the premier fundraising operation in the region. This past fiscal year the WSU Foundation raised more than $60 million. This is an exciting time at WSU with expansion of both programs and facilities. Minimum Requirements for the position include: Bachelor’s degree in Business or Accounting from accredited institution Understanding of basic financial terms Commitment to the WSU Foundation core values of Integrity, Service, Teamwork and Relationships Project professional image at all times Excellent organizational, interpersonal, oral and written communication skills Proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite (Outlook, Word, Excel, and Power Point) and Adobe Acrobat Demonstrated problem-solving and resourcefulness High level of attention to details Maintain confidentiality of information, records, and materials Highly motivated and ability to work effectively independently and as part of a team Preferred Requirements and Skills: Two years’ experience in accounting Experience preparing executive level reports and presentations Experience in data analysis Supervisory experience in a professional environment Database knowledge Knowledge of Wichita State University and a commitment to higher education Physical Requirements: Daily walking, sitting and standing for long periods of time Daily use of a computer for long periods of time Daily use of a telephone Ability to lift/carry up to 25 pounds The WSU Foundation also offers outstanding benefits including medical/dental/vision (100% premium paid for employee/50% for dependents), term life insurance, tuition reimbursement, 8.5% company matching on retirement accounts after one year, 16 days in vacation days as well as 8 paid holidays, and more. To Apply: Please fill out an application, submit your resume and a cover letter explaining your interests in, and qualifications for, the position by clicking here. Application Priority is May 17, 2022 WSU Foundation is an Equal Opportunity Employer Download Student Caller Application We care about you We believe the best way to grow employees is by providing benefits and professional development opportunities that inspire great work. Competitive salaries Full benefits package – 100% premium paid by employer 8.5% retirement plan contribution by employer Tuition assistance Two volunteer service days Attractive and inclusive work environment and more 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter