Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support 'Confidence' from Accounting Degree Inspires Major Gift for Legacy Hall His work as an investment-industry executive and later as an adjunct professor took him to places all over the globe. And whether in San Francisco, London or Mumbai, Peter Jones would put on his Florida State University garb and feel the world get smaller. "Invariably, someone would walk past me and say, 'Go Noles!'" Jones said. No other two syllables make him feel closer to home, and Jones (BS Accounting '77) – a Clearwater resident, retired Franklin Templeton executive and College of Business Alumni Hall of Fame member – rarely ventures far from FSU's campus, in spirit or in person. He's a member of numerous boards and committees of the college or university, including the finance department's Student Investment Fund Board and Finance Professional Advocacy Board, the latter of which he chairs. He serves on the audit committee of the FSU Athletic Association, the investment committee of the FSU Foundation and the committee searching for the university's next vice president of advancement. He also serves on the FSU International Programs Association board. "I'm very active on campus in a variety of ways, because I want to be," Jones said. "I love FSU." That explains a recent gift from Jones and his wife, Mary Lee, to fund the financial laboratory/trading room in Legacy Hall, the college's future home. College officials say the financial laboratory will offer financial modeling, portfolio management and other Wall Street-focused technology to prepare upper-level finance students for a highly competitive job market. Continue the story ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close