Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Student Success Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Experiential Learning Student Success Initiatives Getting an education happens in more than just the classroom. At Florida State University, we’re reimagining the way our students learn, which is why we are proud to be the largest university in the country to adopt an experiential learning requirement for undergraduates. What is experiential learning? E.L. opportunities are hands-on, real world experiences that give students the chance to learn by doing. This may include internships, service-learning, research or creative activity, international study and more. By ensuring every undergraduate, no matter their background or circumstance, has access to transformative, career-building experiences, Florida State will produce one of the most diverse and robust talent pipelines in the nation who are ready to take on the world. From providing internship opportunities to funding Seminoles traveling abroad, there are many great ways to support experiential learning at Florida State. GIVE NOW Fund E.L. Opportunities Make a gift to one of the many existing funds and help provide assistance for worthy students to participate in these life-changing experiences. E.L. Greatest Need Fund Provides FSU flexibility to support a variety of E.L. experiences based on demand and available resources. GIVE NOW Student Internship Fund Provides support to students who may otherwise decline an internship due to financial barriers. GIVE NOW Provide E.L. Opportunities Engage with students through special programs that give students opportunities to discover and participate in experiential learning. Hire a Nole #HireANole by posting internships or job openings through the Career Center’s online career services database. LEARN MORE FSUshadow Take a Nole to work and provide an invaluable one-day shadowing experience for students seeking industry insights. LEARN MORE Dress for E.L. Success Help students make a positive impression by looking their professional best throughout their E.L. opportunity search. The Professional Clothing Closet Provides FSU students access to free professional attire appropriate for career fairs, interviews and the workplace. LEARN MORE Mentor E.L. Students Willing to assist current students in their career development? We are seeking your career expertise! ProfessioNole Mentors Share your professional advice and expertise with curious students through the ProfessioNole Mentors program. LEARN MORE Experiential Learning in Practice Experiential Learning in the News FSU career shadowing program recognized with national award Florida State University News, Released April 30, 2020 FSUshadow, one of the signature programs for the Florida State University Career Center, has won a national award of excellence. The program, led by Geneva Scott, senior assistant director for experiential learning at The Career Center, received the Best Practices Education Award for 2020 from the Cooperative Education and Internship Association (CEIA), a national nonprofit organization that specializes in professional development and cooperative education. The Best Practices Award is given annually to a higher-education program that offers creative and innovative solutions, creates a positive change in overall institutional operations and is replicable for other institutions to adapt.  Continue reading ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close