Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support FSU's Dedman College of Hospitality Receives Anonymous $4.15M Donation to Support Renovations and Establish Endowment Florida State University’s Dedman College of Hospitality announced a $4.15 million gift by an anonymous donor for building renovations and to establish a scholarship program for first-generation students. A significant portion of the gift will establish an endowment fund to support the new scholarship program for first-generation students majoring in hospitality. FSU President Richard McCullough applauded the donation. “This gift will bring the Dedman College of Hospitality revitalized facilities to help students thrive in their studies and help attract prospective students,” McCullough said. “I look forward to the completion of these renovations and I know they will provide Dedman students with many wonderful opportunities and experiences in the years to come. It’s significant for someone to make such a substantial gift and we are grateful for all the support it brings to the FSU community.” Renovations will take place on the first and second floors of the University Center Building B, which houses the Dedman College of Hospitality. The updates include improvements to the first-floor entry and second-floor common area and creation of a new recruitment center. The first floor will be curated with updated furnishings and refreshed décor. The second-floor common area will be designed as a space for students to use between classes. The recruitment center will inform prospective students about Dedman's academic majors and unique courses. It also will promote opportunities such as study-abroad programs and internships. For more information about the FSU Dedman College of Hospitality, visit dedman.fsu.edu. ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close