Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Your Generosity Makes An Impact Donors made it possible to complete the Eck Stadium project » Your Generosity Makes An Impact Donors made it possible to complete the Eck Stadium project » Thanking you is our privilege Donors like you give Wichita State the margin of excellence that is unattainable without private support. Your stories are unique and help make Wichita State extraordinary. With you at our side, we are stronger, bolder and steadfast in our mission. Learn more about some of the ways we recognize your investment in Wichita State. WSU Foundation's Society of 1895 member recognition celebration. Society of 1895 In 1895, 30 men and women comprised the first class of Fairmount College in Wichita. They, along with the faculty and founders, served as the foundation from which the University of Wichita emerged, and now, Wichita State University. The Society of 1895 draws its name from this proud legacy and honors alumni and friends who have included a gift to Wichita State in their estate plans. The university would not be where it is today without this meaningful support. As a Society of 1895 member, you are invited to a special luncheon held in your honor so you can hear how your legacy gift will continue to help advance Wichita State University. Society of 1895 level A designated gift to Wichita State in your estate plan Learn More Fairmount Society Our most distinguished supporters become members of The Fairmount Society, an elite group of the most passionate and loyal Wichita State supporters you’ll ever meet. We honor our new members and celebrate those who reach significant philanthropic milestones at the Fairmount Society dinner held each spring. Fairmount Society members are also members of the President’s Club, which hosts a special celebration each fall. Recognition in the Fairmount Society is granted at these levels of total giving: Lifetime Achievement member – Donations exceed $1 million Lifetime Distinction member – Contributions between $500,000 and $1 million Lifetime member – Donations between $250,000 and $500,000 Learn More Mike and Susan Lamb visit with Martin and Donna Perline at the Fairmount Society celebration. Guests enjoy dinner and camaraderie at the annual event to celebrate new members and lifetime member achievements in the President's Club. The President's Club President’s Club members are committed to supporting the priorities and initiatives of the university through their annual and lifetime giving. As a member of this group, you have the opportunity to hear from WSU President Rick Muma at an annual fall celebration to honor new members and those who have reached a milestone of giving. President Club giving levels Lifetime members – $100,000 to $249,000 Annual members – $5,000 to $19,000 during a fiscal year, from July 1 to June 30 Learn More WSU student Austin Nordyke, an engineering technology major, shown here in the Rhatigan Student Center. WSU Foundation Annual Report The annual Impact Report for the WSU Foundation provides the Foundation's financial outcomes for the year and shares the stories behind some of the remarkable gifts made to Wichita State. Read More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter