Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Advancing Our World Together We Match Industry Challenges With Transformational Resources » Advancing Our World Together We Match Industry Challenges With Transformational Resources Why partner with Wichita State? Our team connects industry partners with the brightest minds at Wichita State University. Our goal is to help you uncover challenges and assemble the best team to get the results you need. Working with Wichita State means you have a partner. And as your partner, we know your business isn’t like any other. That’s why we are proud to offer so many ways to work together. From research and student talent to philanthropic opportunities and workforce development, Wichita State has the tools to build a relationship that is meaningful and one of a kind. Workforce Development Your relationship with your employees is valuable and developing your existing workforce is often a smart strategic move. Continuing Education Workforce Development Executive Education Customized Education Research Last year, Wichita State conducted more than $136 million worth of research. Our 34 centers and institutes have partnered with local, regional and national entities to conduct ground-breaking research, and we are ready to partner with you. Faculty Research Sponsored Research Applied Innovation As Kansas’ Innovation University, we love nothing more than bringing all our partners together – students, faculty and industry – to make something that changes the world. Emerging Technologies IOT Industry 4.0 Prototyping Testing Certification Talent Pipeline Our students leave Wichita State prepared and eager to make change in the world. When you partner with us in our talent pipeline, you gain unique access to more than 15,000 students. Student Employment Internships Student Projects Strategic Giving Strategic gifts to Wichita State are the best way to get your name in front of our students and your future talent. This is how it can work for both of us: Sponsorships Branding Academic Investments WSU student Subash Bhandari looks at a smart-skin sensor in the EEB’s Biomedical Sensors, Imaging and Modeling Engineering Lab. Wichita State University Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences student conducting research in forensic science Wichita State Engineering Alumni Aadhar Jain poses with a model of the "Flying Taxi," an electric vertical takeoff and landing jet that his employer, Lilium, is developing. Collaboration inspires growth As the Innovation Campus takes shape, now is an opportune time to collaborate with Wichita State University. By moving onto our Innovation Campus, private enterprises can draw on the technical expertise of WSU faculty and researchers to develop innovative solutions to spur growth and productivity. By engaging students, you’ll be developing your future workforce pipeline. Providing experiential learning opportunities through internships and hands-on research projects strengthens the connection between our students and our partnering companies. Working with Wichita State University means you have a partner. When companies like Evergy support Wichita State, everyone wins. Together, WSU and Evergy are creating a talent pipeline with students prepared to problem solve, innovate and lead. Partnerships like these have the power to transform our region – and your company – for the better. For more information contact our corporate relations team: Angela Dudley, Associate VP for Corporate Relations at 316.978.3837 or angela.dudley@wichita.edu 3.5.20 A powerful bond Read More 7.14.20 Local companies stepping up to help Shockers Read More 10.5.20 Clark and Sharon Bastian, Fidelity Bank invest another $500,000 in new home for Wichita State’s W. Frank Barton School of Business Read More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter