Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Toggle navigation SECTION MENU About the Foundation Overview Board of Trustees Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Forms and Resources PDF Forms can only be filled using Internet Explorer or downloaded to your desktop. Accounts Payable The Accounts Payable department is responsible for processing various types of disbursements which include procurements, reimbursements, honoraria and scholarships. The Foundation has a fiduciary responsibility to donors to ensure that funds are utilized in accordance with the terms and conditions of their gifts while adhering to various federal and state regulations. Contact Information Lynda Williams (850) 644-0751 lwilliams@foundation.fsu.edu Susan Thomas (850) 644-1590 sthomas@foundation.fsu.edu Forms Transfer Funds Submit Form Online This form is required when transferring money from one Foundation fund to another. Policies and Procedures Expenditure Policy and Procedures Download Social Security Number Collection Statement Download Accounts Receivable The Accounts Receivable department is responsible for tracking monies owed to the Foundation pertaining to travel advances, student loans, bills of service, emergency loans to employees and other related items. Once payment or appropriate documentation has been received to recoup the amount due, the outstanding receivable will be cleared. Should payment or documentation not be received by the due date, the account will be considered delinquent and collection attempts may commence. Contact Information Stacey Richardson (850) 644-0736 srichardson@foundation.fsu.edu Mary McMillian (850) 644-8626 mmcmillian@foundation.fsu.edu Forms Student Loan Application Download This form is required to apply for a student loan. Policies and Procedures Student Loan Policies and Procedures Download FAQs Accounts Receivable FAQs Download Funds Management The Funds Management department is responsible for the administration of Foundation funds. This includes creating new funds, making changes to existing funds and closing funds. The Foundation has a fiduciary responsibility to donors to ensure that funds are utilized in accordance with the terms and conditions of their gifts. As such, any changes made to a fund established by a donor agreement require a gift amendment or other written approval from the donor before the changes can be made. Contact Information Mary McMillian (850) 644-8626 mmcmillian@foundation.fsu.edu Forms Authorized Signer Request Submit Form Online This form is required to make changes (add, delete or replace) to the authorized signers of a fund. Underwater Fund - Request to Continue Spending Distributions Submit Form Online This form is required for an academic unit to continue receiving spending distributions on endowed funds which are greater than 15 or 20 percent underwater. Fund Change Submit Form Online This form is required to change the name or restrictions on a fund (Note: If the fund was established by a donor agreement, an amendment or other written documentation from the donor agreeing to the change must be provided). New Fund Submit Form Online This form is required to open a new fund. Close Fund Submit Form Online This form is required to close a fund. Endowed Fund Spending Decision Change Submit Form Online This form is used to change the spending decision pertaining to the distribution of an endowed fund. FAQs Funds Management FAQs Download Gifts and Other Deposits The Foundation receives monies with a gift and/or non-gift component. The Gift Services department processes charitable gifts and gift/non-gift splits. The Accounting Revenue department is responsible for reviewing and posting all non-gift deposits. To help defray the costs associated with processing non-gift income transactions and disbursement requests, the Foundation assesses a 10 percent fee on all non-gift deposits received. The fee will be charged at the end of each month for non-gift revenues received during that month. Contact Information Gift Related Questions or Inquiries: Alexia Chamberlynn (850) 644-9193 achamberlynn@foundation.fsu.edu Jill Hoover (850) 644-0834 jhoover@foundation.fsu.edu Non-Gift Related Questions or Inquiries: Allyn Dunstan (850) 644-0754 adunstan@foundation.fsu.edu Lisa Fanning (850) 645-0155 lfanning@foundation.fsu.edu Gift Forms Credit Card Form for Campus Users Download This form is required by a cardholder to authorize the Foundation to charge their credit card. Designation of Unrestricted Gifts Download This form is used by an academic unit to designate a purpose for a unrestricted gift they receive from a donor with no specific use or purpose designated. Designation of Restricted Gifts Download This form is used by an academic unit to designate a purpose for a restricted gift they receive from a donor with no specific use or purpose designated. Electronic Gift Transfer Authorization Form Download This form is required when a donor makes a gift by requesting the Foundation withdraw funds from their bank account as payment. Gift-in-Kind Acceptance Forms Download This form must accompany gifts in-kind (non-monetary items of tangible personal property such as art, collectibles, books, equipment, vehicles and other personal assets or materials) along with appropriate documentation. Payroll Gift Deduction Authorization Submit Form Online This form is required when FSU employees wish to give a gift to a Foundation fund via payroll deduction. Gift Transmittal Submit Form Online Submit a charitable gift for processing at the FSU Foundation. Non-Gift Forms Credit Card Form for Campus Users Download This form is required by a cardholder to authorize the Foundation to charge their credit card. Non-Gift Transmittal Form – Cash Download This form must accompany all non-gift deposits made by cash. Non-Gift Transmittal Form – Checks Download This form must accompany all non-gift deposits made by check. Non-Gift Transmittal Form – Credit Cards Download This form must accompany all non-gift deposits made by credit card. Policies and Procedures Earmarked Gifts PolicyDownload Instructions for Completing Gift Transmittal Forms Download Fundraising Events Guidelines Download Gift Acceptance and Counting Policies Download Revenue Policy Download Investments and Endowments The Investment department is responsible for administrative oversight of the Foundation’s investments. These investments include long-term, short-term and trust assets. The Investment department is also responsible for the acceptance and valuation of all marketable securities that are gifted to the Foundation. Contact Information Keith Tolbert (850) 644-9094 ktolbert@foundation.fsu.edu Policies and Procedures Investment and Spending Policies Brochure Download Investment Policy Statement Download Marketable Securities Gifting Instructions Download FAQs Investments and Endowments FAQs Scholarships The Scholarships department is responsible for administering the disbursement of Foundation funds designated as student scholarships to the University. Many of our scholarships are possible only through the generous support of our donors. As such, the Foundation has a fiduciary responsibility to our donors to ensure that funds are utilized in accordance with the terms and conditions of their gifts while adhering to various federal and state regulations. Contact Information For General Scholarship Disbursement Questions or Inquiries: Brady Adcox (850) 644-0749 badcox@foundation.fsu.edu For Scholarship Thank You Letter or Donor Information Questions or Inquiries: Donor Relations (850) 644-1485 Forms Scholarship Disbursement Request Submit Form Online This form is required to process scholarships, fellowships, awards, tuition etc. for FSU students. Please see the Policies and Procedures section below for a guide on how to complete the online form. Scholarship Thank You Letter Writing Tips Download Tips for students writing scholarship thank you letters. FS4U—Finding Scholarships for You Special Events Faculty and staff wishing to request special event assistance from the Foundation’s event staff must review the special events policy and submit the special events request form. Before submitting a request, please be sure the event is in line with the Foundation’s mission to cultivate, steward and recognize donors and prospects who support or are interested in supporting the University’s academic vision and priorities. Contact Information Laura Glenn (850) 644-2313 lglenn@foundation.fsu.edu Forms Special Event Request Form Download Policies and Procedures Special Event Policy Download Web Reports The Foundation has online reports available to employees who have been authorized to view them. To access financial information for Foundation funds, a request for web access to financial fund reports form must be submitted and approved by the Responsible Party. Access to financial fund reports may be granted for an individual fund, multiple funds, or an entire department or unit. To access gift information for Foundation funds, a request for web access to gift reports form must be completed, approved and sent to tharrison@foundation.fsu.edu. Access to gift reports may be granted for an entire department or unit. Contact Information Financial Report Questions or Inquiries: Mary McMillian (850) 644-8626 mmcmillian@foundation.fsu.edu Gift Report Questions or Inquiries: Taylor Harrison (850) 645-8900 tharrison@foundation.fsu.edu Forms Request for Web Access to Financial Fund Reports Submit Form Online This form is used to request web access to financial fund reports. Request for Web Access to Gift Reports Download This form is used to request web access to gift reports. Policies and Procedures Financial Fund Reports User GuideDownload FAQs Web Reports FAQs Download ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close