Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Shock the World 2013-2020 More scholarships. New facilities. Stronger programs. » Shock the World 2013-2020 More scholarships. New facilities. Stronger programs. Thank you for helping us Shock the World. We wish we could personally thank everyone who donated to the the Shock the World campaign. Your loyalty, generosity and spirit catapulted our total fundraising to $307.8 million — way beyond the campaign’s goal of $250 million. Every dollar raised helps secure the future of Wichita State University. Every donation gives our students a more valuable college experience. Every investment helps guarantee Wichita State is able to contribute to our region’s economic growth and the betterment of our world. This page reveals the ways in which the seven-year campaign will have a lasting impact on Wichita State. To our Shocker community, When the Shock the World Campaign started seven years ago, we had big dreams. To INCREASE scholarships substantially, with a focus on need-based aid. To BUILD a new home for the W. Frank Barton School of Business. To UPGRADE our athletic facilities and better support student-athletes. To ENHANCE programs that bring distinction to our university, such as the Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College. And … YOU DID IT! From the bottom of my heart, thank you. Elizabeth King President & CEO WSU Foundation Downoad Our Full Issue $307.8 M Total raised 32,056 Total number of donors 314 Gifts of $100k or more Shock the World Honor Roll of Donors More than 300 individuals, companies, foundations and trusts donated $100,000 or more during the life of the campaign. Our Honor Roll recognizes their generosity. Click here to see the full list. Your giving is cause for celebration Watch our two-minute Shock the World celebration video showcasing the impact of your giving. Thank you to all the donors and alumni who supported Wichita State University throughout the Shock The World campaign. Every gift mattered. Shock the World Stories 12.9.20 Thanks to you, scholarship payouts increase by 40 percent Read More 12.9.20 A CAPITAL IDEA Read More 12.9.20 The power of planned giving Read More 12.9.20 A little out of the ordinary Read More 12.9.20 Three donors with a big impact Read More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter