Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Toggle navigation SECTION MENU More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Planned Gifts Faculty & Staff Gifts Corporate & Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Employer Matching Gifts Close Double or even triple the impact of your gift to academic or athletic excellence! Your company may be one of thousands that match employee contributions to the Florida State University Foundation or Seminole Boosters. If you or your spouse is employed by a matching gift company, the impact of your contribution to Florida State could be significantly increased by their match.* Here's how to take part: Search: To find out if your employer has a matching gift policy, click on the box below and enter your company's name. Or you may simply contact your employer's human resources office and ask whether your company matches employee donations. Fill In: Complete the donor/employee part of the form and include your contribution to the FSU Foundation or Seminole Boosters, as appropriate. Send: Mail your completed form to Seminole Boosters, along with your contribution or inform the FSU Foundation online that you’ve submitted for the match. We'll handle the rest and let you know when we’ve received the match. Making your gift online? Follow the matching gifts prompts on the online giving form or subsequent email for online gifts. Search Matching Gift and Volunteer Grant information provided by Send Please submit your forms through the email you received from the Foundation or send your completed corporate matching gift forms for the FSU Foundation to: Florida State University Foundation Attn: Alexia Chamberlynn 325 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 If you have any questions about corporate matches and the Foundation, please contact Alexia Chamberlynn, senior director of Gift Services, at (850) 644-9193. Please send your completed corporate matching gift forms for Seminole Boosters to: Seminole Boosters, Inc. Attn: Matching Gift Department PO Box 1353 Tallahassee, FL 32302 If you have any questions about corporate matches and Seminole Boosters, please contact (850) 644-3484. ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close