Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Supporting Our Students Support our Tallahassee campus students Make a One-Time Gift Make a Three-Month Pledge Support our Panama City campus students Make a One-Time Gift Make a Three-Month Pledge Support our student food pantry FSU Wish List FSU Panama City Wish List Frequently Asked Questions Why do you need support for FSU students? Our FSU students have been reaching out for financial assistance to help mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on their educational endeavors. Florida State University is working tirelessly to ensure students can remain in school through this crisis, and help our seniors graduate. How will the money be used? This support is truly student-driven—the funds are flexible enough to accommodate the wide and varied needs of our students during this ever-evolving crisis. The student emergency funds can be used for a wide variety of needs, including but not limited to: Technology (laptop, internet access, etc.) to optimize distance learning Rent and living expenses due to job loss or reduced hours Food insecurity Transportation to their home Medical bills Additionally, we are continuing to operate our Food for Thought Pantry, by appointment only, for students who remain on campus or who have not left the greater Tallahassee area. Donors may also directly support the FSU student food pantry by purchasing items listed on its Amazon Wish List. How quickly will the support get to students? The student emergency funds have been created to be put to work immediately for our students. Support will be granted to students who complete an application process and distributed as both need and financial support is identified. Simply put, the more funds raised, the more students we are able to help at a faster speed! How can I give? Gifts can be made online using credit card, debit card or PayPal at give.fsu.edu/studentemergency (Tallahassee campus student emergency fund) or give.fsu.edu/pcstudents (Panama City campus student emergency fund). Gifts not made online may be received via check made payable the FSU Foundation and reference Fund F08909 (Tallahassee campus student emergency fund) or Fund F08686 (Panama City campus student emergency fund. Donors may also directly support the FSU student food pantry by purchasing items listed on its Amazon Wish List. If I am a student, how do I apply for financial assistance? Students interested in applying for aid are required to schedule an appointment in Case Management with the Department of Student Support and Transitions. ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close