Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Funding Priorities Our Initiatives Are Student-Focused » Funding Priorities Our Initiatives Are Student-Focused We help Shockers succeed Just as Wichita State University is passionately student-focused, so are the initiatives the WSU Foundation has identified as our most urgent funding priorities. If you are considering a gift to Wichita State, we encourage you to learn more about the impact these initiatives will have on student success. Need-based scholarships Everyone who wants a college education at Wichita State should have that opportunity. Scholarships are crucial to make it happen. Forty-seven percent of our WSU students are the first in their families to attend college, which typically means they have strong financial need. And about 31 percent of all WSU students who seek financial aid are not able to get support because more resources are needed. The total gap of $2.8 M represents 1,584 students who applied for aid but didn’t get it. The average gap for residential students is $2,000. “I was working four jobs. Getting zero sleep. People could tell I was struggling,” said Kaylie Aikins. Like many Wichita State students, Kaylie comes from a family with limited means. She’s on her own financially, yet driven to make her life better by getting a college education. Being the recipient of a generous scholarship allowed her to quit three of her part-time jobs and focus on her classes. We hope you will consider helping other students like Kaylie in one of three ways: Contribute to a need-based scholarship in one of our academic colleges. Endow a need-based scholarship. Start a current need-based scholarship. For more information, fill out our contact form. Give Visit An Academic Area See Brochure Shocker Success Center – A Community of Care When the W. Frank Barton School of Business moves to its new home in 2022, Clinton Hall will become available for a new purpose bringing together 16 student services currently housed in 10 buildings spread across campus. We hope you consider how your gift can make a difference in bringing these services together for our students, staff, and the university. The Impact: Students – greater convenience, better service, less confusion. Staff – new opportunities to collaborate, innovate and share resources. University – increased cost efficiencies and less reliance on outdated facilities. Read More Give Now New technology will sustain the Barton School of Business's competitive edge A new facility for the W. Frank Barton School of Business will take business education to a new level, preparing our students to be innovative, collaborative and entrepreneurial for tomorrow’s competitive workforce. Already, our remarkable alumni and friends have committed $30 million to this $60 million endeavor. We are raising additional dollars for the technology enhancement fund. Today’s fast-evolving advancements have made technology the driver for successful modern businesses and are a vital educational component for business students now and in the future. If you are interested in giving to the technology enhancement fund, contact Jessie Rainey at jessie.rainey@wichita.edu or call at 316.978.3948. Give 9.27.21 O’Bleness family gives generously to Wichita State to create a legacy of caring and service Read More 9.27.21 Shocker community invited to honor legacy of baseball player Read More 8.30.21 Supporters of Shocker Success Center have a common goal: student success Read More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter