Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Student Success Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Center for Academic Retention and Enhancement Student Success Initiatives Florida State University established the Center for Academic Retention and Enhancement—or CARE—with a mission to contribute to the successful retention and graduation of undergraduate students from disadvantaged economic or educational circumstances. CARE provides preparation, orientation, mentoring and academic support for first-generation students, such as college life coaching, financial literacy training, academic tutoring and more. In addition to this academic support, CARE’s reach extends beyond the classroom. Through mentorship and the development of close-knit relationships, students fully engage in university life. They are Student Body Presidents, Homecoming Chiefs and Princesses, Global Scholars, Rhodes Scholars, Fulbright recipients and more. Simply put, CARE students are integral to the future of Florida State University. Help us shape these deserving students into our future leaders. Your gift can help FSU do even more. The State of Florida provides a two-for-one state match for all contributions to this fund, effectively tripling this student population's financial support GIVE NOW CARE bridges the gap for FSU’s first-generation students Florida State University News, Released July 13, 2020 Beginning college can be an overwhelming experience for first-year students. And starting college amid a pandemic can make the experience more intimidating. For first-generation students, it can be an even bigger challenge. To help ease the transition to college for first-generation students, Florida State University’s Center for Academic Retention and Enhancement (CARE) provides a foundation of support along with opportunities for campus engagement through its annual Summer Bridge Program (SBP). This year’s cohort will be the first in the program’s history to complete it virtually — and for class credit. Continue reading FSU receives new designation for its commitment to first-generation student success Florida State University News, Released June 23, 2020 TALLAHASSEE, Fla. — Florida State University has received designation as a First-gen Forward Advisory Institution, recognizing its commitment to improving experiences and advancing outcomes of first-generation college students. Florida State is one of just 11 schools nationally to earn the designation from the Center for First-generation Student Success, an initiative of NASPA – Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education and The Suder Foundation. Selected institutions receive professional development, community-building experiences, and a first look at the center’s research and resources. FSU’s Center for Academic Retention and Enhancement (CARE) aims to provide first-generation students with the preparation and academic support necessary to trailblaze a successful college career. Continue reading ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close