Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Every Gift Is Powerful » Every Gift Is Powerful How will you make a difference? When you support Wichita State, you help make it possible to give our students an extraordinary learning experience that will shape the rest of their lives. By preparing students, we advance the wellbeing of our community, region and world. Learn more, below, about giving opportunities that promote this vision. Wichita State priorities We are student-focused. One of the most profound ways you can help students earn their degrees and build rewarding careers is through scholarships that make their education more affordable. Building a new home for the student services is another initiative to position students for success. Learn more about supporting Wichita State’s top priorities. Learn More Giving to academic colleges Every one of Wichita State’s academic colleges is identifying innovative, bold ways to help students succeed. Additional resources will amplify their efforts. When you give to the Shocker Fund, you are giving directly to the college you select to receive your support. Donate annually or through monthly payments to make an even more significant impact. Learn More Giving to students helps every Shocker succeed Our students recognize that a college degree is a path to a better life. But many have financial limitations that put them at risk of dropping out. More than 40 percent of WSU students are first-generation and more than 30 percent of those who seek financial assistance are denied each year for lack of resources. The need for more scholarships is pressing. Learn More Specialized support inspires students outside of the classroom Beyond a reputation for academic excellence, Wichita State enhances the student experience and our community’s quality of life through athletics, public radio station KMUW, the Ulrich Museum of Art and our University Libraries system. Your support helps each be more competitive, dynamic and engaging. Learn More 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter