Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Student Success Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support The Honors Experience Student Success Initiatives Florida State University has a long history of providing recognition and guidance for outstanding students through its honors program. Relaunched in 2018, the Honors Experience Program at Florida State identifies intellectually curious students who have the potential, dedication and drive to create change and provides them with holistic development through enriching experience both in and beyond the classroom. Simply put, the honors program develops students who are scholars, leaders, innovators and lifelong learners. In addition to offering a cutting-edge interdisciplinary curriculum focused on contemporary themes and global challenges, the honors program provides students a close community of not only other honors students but also mentorship with faculty, alumni and community members beyond FSU. These experiences not only foster higher-level thinking as a foundation for future leadership and academic success but also provide for a well-rounded student experience. Our honors students are leaders in many university organizations, they win national and international awards, and they volunteer in the local and global community which, in turn, brings distinction to Florida State University. Through your support, we can offer more students access to each impactful event, expand the scope and diversity of speakers and experiences, and provide financial support for students to engage in honors program field trips in the U.S. and globally. GIVE NOW The Honors Experience in the News FSU awards honors medallions to university’s high achievers Tallahassee Democrat, Published May 10, 2021 Florida State University awarded honors medallions to 330 high-achieving graduates during a virtual ceremony on Thursday, April 22. The FSU Honors Program supports the efforts and talents of the university’s most intellectually curious students who have the potential, dedication and drive for creating change. Continue reading FSU's Friends of Honors, Scholars, and Fellows group inspires grads Tallahassee Democrat, Published April 27, 2020 A group of Florida State University alumni nationwide are doing their part to keep the Class of 2020 uplifted. Members of Friends of Honors, Scholars, and Fellows have been posting inspirational messages on the group’s Facebook page since the university announced live graduation ceremonies wouldn’t be held this spring. […] Continue reading FSU goes the ‘virtual’ extra mile to recruit high-achieving students Published: April 14, 2020 While the novel coronavirus is causing disruption for enrolled college students, the pandemic is also affecting how prospective students interact with universities. The transition to a remote campus has drastically impacted how the Florida State University Honors Program recruits potential students. Instead of bringing future students to campus, program staff have been hard at work […] Continue reading ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close