Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Giving Inspires Giving Together, we can meet the needs of students » Giving Inspires Giving Together, we can meet the needs of students Support an academic area Wichita State’s seven academic colleges are the foundation for our students’ success. At every turn, students are counting on their college to provide the support and resources they need to be successful at Wichita State and beyond. A gift of any size to your college’s Shocker Fund can be used throughout the year where there is the greatest need. Our Shocker Fund student callers will call to provide you with a college update and thank you for your support each year. If you’re ready to extend your giving, there are many ways to do that. Our development officers are here to help. You can learn more about the academic college you are interested in and make your gift to the Shocker Fund by hovering over and clicking on the college’s tile below. Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College Learn More Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College Learn More College of Applied Studies Learn More College of Applied Studies Learn More College of Engineering Learn More College of Engineering Learn More College of Fine Arts Learn More College of Fine Arts Learn More College of innovation and design Learn More College of innovation and design Learn More College of Health Professions Learn More College of Health Professions Learn More Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Learn More Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Learn More W. Frank Barton School of Business Learn More W. Frank Barton School of Business Learn More Graduate School Learn More Graduate School Learn More Your college counts on Shocker Fund resources In addition to providing and supporting instruction, faculty and staff in each academic college are responsible for advising students, providing networking opportunities, administering scholarships and understanding the needs of their students. Here are just a few ways your Shocker Fund gifts make a difference: Allows students to attend research conferences Brings in highly regarded guest lecturers Provides study abroad resources Gives students applied learning experiences through community services Each college receives a number of student requests that can’t always be fulfilled each year. That is why supporting academic colleges is so important. The power to change lives through the Shocker Fund lies with you. You can make a gift to a Shocker Fund by clicking on the academic areas above. Make a Gift Monthly gifts of all sizes matter Your monthly gift, no matter the amount, will make a huge impact on students who have a learning opportunity but don’t have the resources to cover it. Monthly gifts can be made easily online, by mail, text or over the phone. For questions or to set up a monthly gift, contact Kathleen Hilyard at kathleen.hilyard@wichita.edu or 316-978-3819. 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter