If you are using Internet Explorer you may experience issues when registering for events or making online payments. Skip to main content Search: Search CAMPAIGN About the Campaign Key Initiatives UC Health Emergency Department UC Cancer Center Scholarships Recognition Ways to Give IMPACT Impact Stories UC student lifted by fellow Bearcats A Piece of History “Doc” ensures student-athletes are cared for Former UC Football Captain Supports Football Program Sisters and Bearcats Empower Our Next Leaders Explore Our Next Frontier Embrace Our Next Purpose Colleges Collaborate to Treat Depression Honoring a Daughter's Memory Finding Common Ground Donors Provide Scholarship Support and Real-World Experience Mallows met at UC; Now They Focus on Giving Back IMPACT Innovation at UC Legacy of Learning Preserving a Legacy Providing Elementary Students a Chance to Succeed Endowment Fund Supports Department of History Honoring a Legacy Giving Back to First Generation Students Preserving a Passion DAAP Student Makes Bold Moves Thanks to Donor Support Investing in Others Supporting the Future A Nontraditional Journey A Legacy Continued Sweet Support Expanding Horizons Getting Back in the Pool A Gift for the Future Making a Musician Scholarships solved the puzzle to success Lindner Professor Uses Analytics to Solve Problems Annual Report Videos NEWS Press Releases Huffman Foundation gift UC Foundation Trustee Gifts $3 Million to Carl H. Lindner College of Business Couple makes $9 million gift to University of Cincinnati Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati Launches UC Emergency Funds Raise Over $55,000 News | Donation expands UC Health testing capabilities for COVID-19 2021 New Trustees UC Day of Giving a Success UCAA Day of Giving Downtown mural Endowed Professorship News Archive Mantei Center ABOUT About Us Careers Staff President Board Anti-Racist Statement Brand Guide SEARCH GIVE NOW GIVE NOW UC Day of Giving countdown! Launching April 7 @ Noon What's Next Starts With You! We don’t wait to change the world. Bearcats are powering new markets and industries, transforming ideas into impact, and improving the way we live, work and learn now. With our signature Bearcat drive, hustle, and grit, we’re pushing the limits of what’s possible. This 24-hour challenge shows the collective change we can make when #BearcatsGive. It's a remarkable time to be a Bearcat This is your day. This is our day. UC Day of Giving. Resources Ambassador Toolkit In this toolkit, you’ll find the resources to be a successful UC Day of Giving ambassador. View Logos UC Day of Giving logos for use in marketing and communication with your network. Download Virtual Background Use our virtual backgrounds in your meetings to promote UC Day of Giving to your colleagues and networks. Download Videos Here you will find UC Day of Giving promotional videos. These can also be found on the UC Foundation's Youtube channel. Download Social Graphics Use these social graphics to promote UC Day of Giving and the area you wish to support. Download Challenge Schedule Get excited to give and check out the 24-hour Challenge Schedule for UC Day of Giving! View Important Links UC Day of Giving Sign up to be an ambassador Snap a Selfie in our Virtual Photobooth! Ambassador Facebook Group Quick Links UC Home Alumni Association Campaign UC Bicentennial UC Health Contact Us The University of Cincinnati Foundation PO Box 19970 Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-6781 | 888-556-8889 513-556-4300 (fax) ucfoundation@uc.edu University Hall, Suite 100 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45219 Stay in Touch Like being the first to know? You’ll get timely updates on news, events and more from the UC Foundation. Subscribe Careers UC Foundation Privacy Policy Instagram Facebook Youtube Twitter LinkedIn