Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Cumulative lifetime giving to Florida State University is recognized by Vires, Artes, Mores. Learn more about this recognition society and view the honor roll. Donor Recognition A researcher discovers a more cost-effective treatment for chronic disease. A first-generation college student achieves his dream of a degree. A professor provides new insight on a pressing social dilemma that impacts our community. None of this is possible without you. Florida State donors, like you, ensure that your successes will become the triumphs of our students when you make a gift to support our great university. Your contributions provide the financial resources that allow Florida State University to provide unparalleled educational opportunities for our students, including scholarships, access to respected faculty members, and opportunities to participate in internships and conduct ground-breaking research. As an alumni, parent or friend of Florida State University, you know that receiving an exceptional education is crucial for creating success. A well-educated individual has the ability to change the world and enrich the communities in which they live. You help us connect our students with their dreams. Thank you. Recognition Societies We recognize our donors’ generosity through various recognition societies. These societies not only honor our donors but also illustrate how their support fosters excellence at Florida State. Did you Nole? As valued honorees in our recognition societies, you have access to services made available only to you! Keep up-to-date on exciting things happening at Florida State by subscribing to our news digests. Interested in helping students with their career development? Become a ProfessioNOLE Mentor and share your expertise with the best and brightest. Visit and utilize your favorite spots on campus! As an alumni, you have access to the Leach Center, Fitness & Movement Clinic and Strozier Library. President's Club Since 1977, the FSU Foundation’s President's Club has recognized the university’s most generous donors—individuals, families, corporations and foundations—whose support, dedication and vision make positive things happen in our community, our state and beyond. President's Club honorees provide the backbone of critical private support that makes Florida State University a leader in teaching, research and public service programs. 2019 President's Club Celebration Photos Contact: Donor Relations department (850) 644-1485 James D. Westcott Legacy Society The James D. Westcott Legacy Society is a tribute to the visionary James D. Westcott and to all generations of Florida State University benefactors who embrace his vision and who share his high ideals. Recognition in the Westcott Legacy Society is offered to all alumni and friends who have designated contributions to academic programs at Florida State University in their estate plans. Honorees in the Westcott Legacy Society receive the following benefits: Exclusive invitations to events, including annual luncheon featuring university leaders, faculty, and students who have benefited from your generosity Informational seminars and communication related to estate and financial planning Opportunities to share your personal experiences and inspire others Dedicated access to staff who can answer questions and provide assistance 2022 James D. Westcott Society luncheon photos Contact: Office of Gift Planning 850-644-0753 giftplanning@foundation.fsu.edu ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close