Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Your Giving Inspires Us Celebrating 30 years of Barton Scholars » Your Giving Inspires Us Celebrating 30 years of Barton Scholars Who we are We are the WSU Foundation, an independent and Shocker-proud organization committed to Wichita State University’s success. Our core values of integrity, teamwork, relationship and service are essential to everything we do. We work with hundreds of donors – alumni, businesses, foundations – who also want Wichita State to be the best it can be. We match their interests and passions with opportunities for support on campus. Our mission is to enhance a community of learning excellence for our students and faculty through philanthropy and stewardship. Because of our generous donors, thousands of WSU students receive scholarships to make their education more affordable. Our faculty receive additional resources to take their work to the next level. New programs are launched to reflect the ever-changing educational landscape. And new facilities are built (or existing ones renovated) to help deliver on Wichita State’s commitment to innovation and excellence. Through the unwavering loyalty of donors like you, the spirit and traditions of Wichita State live on. ""Wichita State is the extraordinary university it is today because of the generosity of our dedicated alumni and friends. With your support of scholarships, all of our student's dreams and aspirations are attainable. Watch the video to hear from one of our scholarship recipients." Elizabeth King WSU Foundation President and CEO Endowment & Giving $42.16M Raised in Gifts & Pledges $402.73M Total assets under Management 10,282 Total Donors Leadership team Elizabeth King, President and CEO Read More Elizabeth King, President and CEO Read More Darin Kater, Vice President Read More Darin Kater, Vice President Read More Mike Lamb, Vice President Read More Mike Lamb, Vice President Read More Susan Barrett, Vice President of Finance Read More Susan Barrett, Vice President of Finance Read More Our History Building a bright future First we were the WSU Endowment Association, founded in 1965 – one year after Wichita State entered the Kansas Regents system as a state university. Our leaders then, along with prominent alumni and community members, knew it would take private support to give Wichita State a margin of excellence – a level of achievement public funding alone can’t produce. The first officers presiding over the association were Dwane L. Wallace, president; Olive W. Garvey, first vice president; Woodrow M. Champion, second vice president; Carl K. Suderman, third vice president; Gordon W. Evans, secretary; and Arthur W. Kincade, treasurer. These leaders gave the new nonprofit organization three primary duties: support the university, manage the association’s financial affairs effectively and honor agreements made with donors. Records show we had assets of $1.8 million in 1973. This amount has grown to $368.8 million today. In 2000, we changed our name to the WSU Foundation to better reflect our role – identifying, cultivating and soliciting private and corporate support to advance Wichita State’s mission. For more than five decades, we have done just that, helping to build a prestigious and progressive university with a bright future. Wichita State University Graduation Ceremony History of Leaders – 1965-1980 Richard Reidenbaugh, Executive Vice President Board of Trustees and Executive Secretary of the WSU Endowment Association – 1981-1990 Robert F. Hartsook, Vice President for Advancement and President & CEO of the WSU Board of Trustees – 1991-Present Elizabeth King, President & CEO WSU Foundation 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter