Opportunities Overview WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Impact Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Overview Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact Give Now Horizon Blog Give Now Horizon Blog Opportunities WSU Foundation Priorities Academic Colleges / Schools Student Support Specialized Support Giving How to Give Corporate Giving Planned Giving Memorials / Honors Spirit of the Gift Impact Shock the World Results Your Impact Fairmount Society President’s Club Society of 1895 About Careers Board of Directors National Advisory Council Directory Contact How to Find Us Make Your IMPACT Please use the below form to find your area of support, or use the search function to locate a specific fund. Thank you! You can add more funds from these categories: WSU Priorities Programs Colleges Scholarships & Fellowships Search Please choose a fund to support Select a fund Choose one of the University's greatest needs Select a fund Shocker Success CenterOther (Please indicate a fund in the notes section in the checkout.)W. Frank Barton School of Business BuildingGraduate School Need-Based ScholarshipCollege of Innovation and Design Need-Based ScholarshipCohen Honors College Need-Based ScholarshipBarton School of Business Need-Based ScholarshipCollege of Fine Arts Need-Based ScholarshipFairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Need-Based ScholarshipCollege of Applied Studies Need-Based ScholarshipCollege of Health Professions Need-Based ScholarshipCollege of Engineering Need-Based Scholarship Choose a category Select a category Choose a fund Select a fund $2500 $1000 $500 $100 $50 CUSTOM AMOUNT $ Next Your generous donation will total $ today. When you proceed to checkout, you will be sent to our payment processing service. Proceed to Checkout In accordance with PCI compliance requirements, the WSU Foundation does not store or retain your credit card information. Back Loading Payment Process Your gift on our secure site provides students with life-changing opportunities and faculty with the resources to make a difference. The WSU Foundation is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization and all donations are tax-deductible to the full extent of the law. We greatly appreciate your generosity. Important instructions: If you are donating to a fund not listed in the drop-down box below, select ‘other’ under the WSU Priorities tab. You will be taken to a page with donation amount options. Click on the amount you wish to donate. When taken to the next page, click on Proceed to Checkout. (You must proceed with payment before providing information about the fund you wish to support.) On the payment page, place your fund information in the NOTES Provide the fund number, if you know it, or the name of the fund. If you do not know the name of the fund, use generally descriptive words. Then click on Give Now to complete the donation transaction. 316-978-3040 foundation@wichita.edu WSU Foundation 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, KS 67260-0002 Quick Links Directions Staff Directory Careers News Releases Sitemap Privacy Learn More FAQs Annual Report Audited Financials Investments Tax Return Philanthropic Support Fee FAQ’s WSU Faculty and Staff Resources Donor Bill of Rights WSU Links Wichita State WSU News Releases WSU Alumni Association WSU Athletics WSU Tech KMUW 89.1 © 2022 Wichita State Foundation Wichita State University Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and donations are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Subscribe to Newsletter