Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation DONATE NOW FSU Foundation Toggle navigation Site Menu Give Now About Us Overview Events Our Commitment Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us Your Impact More Ways to Give Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods Donor Recognition Recognition Societies Forever FSU Student Success Overview Experiential Learning CARE Presidential Scholars The Honors Experience Faculty Support Your Impact FSU's Dedman College of Hospitality Receives Anonymous $4.15M Donation to Support Renovations and Establish Endowment Florida State University’s Dedman College of Hospitality announced a $4.15 million gift by an anonymous donor for building renovations and to establish a scholarship program for first-generation students. Read More A Force for Good on Two Wheels Parents establish student award to honor talented and giving son. Read More All Hands On Deck: FSU, Suntex Marinas Partner To Train Hospitality Students Florida State University students will have the opportunity to learn the ins and outs of marina operations through a new partnership between the Dedman College of Hospitality and Suntex Marinas. Read More 'Confidence' from Accounting Degree Inspires Major Gift for Legacy Hall Peter Jones and his wife, Mary Lee, gave a gift to fund the financial laboratory/trading room in Legacy Hall which will offer financial modeling, portfolio management and other Wall Street-focused technology to prepare upper-level finance students. Read More Recent Donor “Steps Up” Through New Professorship Despite his dynamic and accomplished career in public service—one that took him from South Florida to Silicon Valley on the West Coast and Washington, D.C. on the East Coast—Tom Henderson is more enamored to boast about the achievements of his sons, Scott and David, than his own accolades. Read More Thanks for Supporting FSU's Great Give! The 11th annual FSU’s Great Give broke a campaign record and amassed 4,537 donors in only 24 hours, exceeding its goal of 4,500 donors. FSU supporters rallied together and raised $1,693,923 during the annual day of giving, which took place March 9. Read More Alumna Wishes to “Pay It Forward” Through Planned Gift “Pay it forward”—a simple concept that first caught the attention of Florida State University alumna Jo Ann Nelson (’68) while preparing to sit down for a meal, but now serves as the inspiration behind ensuring generations of students find success at Florida State. Read More Social Work Professor Appointed to Child Welfare Professorship The FSU College of Social Work has appointed Professor Melissa Radey to the Agnes Flaherty Stoops Professorship in Child Welfare. Read More Talbot ‘Sandy’ D’Alemberte Distinguished Endowed Chair Established at FSU Law A $2 million gift has allowed Florida State University College of Law to established the Talbot “Sandy” D’Alemberte Distinguished Endowed Chair. Read More Daughter Honors Late Father’s Wishes With Gifts of Real Estate For one donor, what started as a job opportunity would soon commence a lifelong journey with Florida State. Read More FAMU-FSU College of Engineering Announces 5-Year, $750K Collaboration with Danfoss Turbocor Florida A&M University President Larry Robinson, Ph.D., joined Florida State University President Richard D. McCullough, Ph.D., Thursday to announce a $750,000, five-year agreement with Danfoss Turbocor to fund scholarships and provide research opportunities for faculty and students at the FAMU-FSU College of Engineering (COE). Read More Jeffrey and Agnes Stoops Expand Charitable Legacy with $1 Million Pledge to the College of Law From students to devoted alumni, Jeffrey (’81, J.D. ’84) and Agnes Stoops (’82, MSW ’83) have a long history of advocating for Florida State University that can only be described as ambition turned into action. Read More News Archive ABOUT THE FOUNDATION FSU Foundation Overview Events Board of Trustees The Engagement Center Financial Information Employment Forms and Resources Contact Us MORE WAYS TO GIVE Giving Overview Support Areas Annual Giving Endowed Gifts Gift and Estate Planning Faculty and Staff Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Employer Matching Gifts Gift Payment Methods YOUR IMPACT DONOR RECOGNITION Recognition Societies QUICKLINKS FSU Alumni Association Seminole Boosters Vires, Artes, Mores Women For FSU FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301-1403 Email Us (850) 644-6000 (850) 644-8527 Give Online Now University News and Highlights US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy State Non-Profit Disclosures Public Records Requests Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close