Skip to Content (Press Enter) California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search this site or CSUF general sites Site CSUF Site Menu searchSearch this site CSUF + About Us Governance Endowment Policies, Procedures & Forms Reports There was a problem with the left navigation. search Search this site Philanthropic Foundation About Us Governance Endowment Policies, Procedures & Forms Reports Philanthropic Foundation About Us Governance Endowment Policies, Procedures & Forms Reports Helping Cal State Fullerton in fulfilling its educational mission At Cal State Fullerton, we know education is a pathway to success — for our students, their families, the community, the state and the nation. Every dollar that our generous supporters donate to the Cal State Fullerton Philanthropic Foundation, helps provide our students with opportunities to succeed—many of whom are the first in their families to pursue a college degree. Through your generous support, we offer scholarships, improve access to high impact practices that keep students engaged in college life, fund research, provide experiential learning opportunities and much more. Cal State Fullerton Philanthropic Foundation and University Advancement take their work as stewards of your contributions seriously. Building support and providing leadership are the hallmarks of our philanthropic efforts and helps us move Cal State Fullerton forward in fulfilling its educational mission. Give Now Contact Us Philanthropic Foundation 2600 Nutwood Ave., Ste 830 Fullerton, CA 92831 T: 657-278-2786 F: 657-278-7666 foundation@fullerton.edu Related Link: University Advancement This site is maintained by University Advancement. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.0.953.9c This page uses javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.