Visit Hours & Directions Museum Store What’s Nearby Archaeology Collections Facility Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Upcoming Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Programs Upcoming Programs Past Programs Past Program Videos Support Donate Membership Fowler Fellows Contemporary Council Textile Council Member Program Portal Partners Collections Collections Overview The Americas & the Caribbean Africa Asia & The Pacific NAGPRA/Repatriation Research Mellon African Art Initiative Center for Regional Dress Online Archives at Fowler Museum Pimu Catalina Island Archaeology Project at Fowler Learn & Participate University Students, Faculty, and Staff Programs K-12 Students and Teachers Community-Engaged Projects Public Programs About About the Fowler Contact Donate Become a Member Publications Press Room Opportunities Venue Rental Copyright © 2022 Fowler Museum. All Rights Reserved. Sitemap Privacy Policy Admission is Free | Open Wed–Sun Search: Admission is Free | Open Wed–Sun Explore global arts and cultures— past and present PLAN YOUR VISIT Learn about our upcoming programs! Learn More The Fowler Museum at UCLA acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of Tovaangar (the Los Angeles basin and Southern Channel Islands). Learn More Exhibitions On View See All Exhibitions upcoming_lubondo Gosette Lubondo: Imaginary Trip February 27–July 3, 2022 amg_web ‘How Do You See This World?’: The Art of Almighty God January 16–June 21, 2022 web_khipu Fowler in Focus: Communication Systems in a Global Context October 24, 2021–June 26, 2022 aspt Aboriginal Screen-Printed Textiles from Australia’s Top End December 5, 2021–July 10, 2022 Fowler In The News Fowler In The News Exhibition curator Joanna Barrkman joins the UCLA Arts podcast Works In Progress to share stories about the artists and inspirations behind Aboriginal Screen-Printed Textiles from Australia’s Top End. READ MORE 1 of 2 Fowler In The News Fowler In The News UCLA Arts’ Staff Spotlight features two talented Fowler staff members! READ MORE 2 of 2 Upcoming Programs See All Programs CategoryConcert / PerformanceFamily ProgramScreeningSpecial EventTalk / Lecture June 2022 Fowler Films: J. Bouey’s Chiron in Leo IN PERSON RSVP The Fowler and UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance are ... Wed Jun 01, 2022 5:30 pm - 6:30 pm In Person View Detail Fowler Out Loud: Kyodo Taiko IN PERSON RSVP Kyodo Taiko (響童 太鼓) is the nation's first and ... Thu Jun 02, 2022 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm In Person View Detail Exhibition Walk-through: Matthew H. Robb on Communications Systems in a Global Context IN PERSON RSVP Written and visual communication has taken many forms over ... Sat Jun 04, 2022 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm In Person View Detail Fowler Out Loud: Santa Monica Youth Orchestra’s Spring Concert IN PERSON RSVP The Fowler is proud to partner with Santa Monica ... Sun Jun 05, 2022 1:00 pm - 4:00 pm In Person View Detail REBEL SPEAKEASY: A Center for Justice Kickoff with Bryonn Bain IN PERSON RSVP The Fowler Museum and The UCLA Prison Education Program, ... Tue Jun 07, 2022 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm In Person View Detail Summer Solstice Party: Aboriginal Screen-Printed Textiles from Australia’s Top End IN PERSON RSVP The Fowler is pleased to welcome visitors in person ... Tue Jun 21, 2022 5:30 pm - 8:30 pm In Person View Detail PRIDE at the Fowler: Archiving Gay History ONLINE RSVP The Fowler, the UCLA Film & Television Archive, and ONE ... Thu Jun 23, 2022 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm Online View Detail Fowler Talks: Publisher Textiles with Merrepen Art Centre ONLINE RSVP Stephanie Isaac-Newton is half of the duo behind Publisher Textiles ... Tue Jun 28, 2022 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm Online View Detail There are no programs that match your selection Collection Highlights Our collections express the variation and diversity of human experiences LegaMask Africa BalineseDolls Asia & The Pacific the-americas The Americas & the Caribbean Be a Part of The Fowler Be a Part of The Fowler Your support is a wonderful way to become involved with and philanthropically support the Fowler Museum. DonateBecome a Member Stay Connected Leave this field empty if you're human: Visit Hours & Directions Museum Store What’s Nearby Archaeology Collections Facility Collections Collections Overview The Americas & the Caribbean Africa Asia & The Pacific NAGPRA/Repatriation Exhibitions Current Upcoming Past Research Mellon African Art Initiative Center for the Study of Regional Dress Online Archive of California Pimu Catalina Island Archaeology Project Programs Upcoming Programs Past Programs Learn & Participate University Students, Faculty, and Staff Programs K-12 Students and Teachers Community-Engaged Projects Public Programs Support Donate Membership Fowler Fellows Contemporary Council Textile Council Member Program Portal Partners & Sponsors About About the Fowler Contact Donate Become a Member Publications Press Room Opportunities Venue Rental Fowler Museum 308 Charles E. Young Dr N, Los Angeles, CA 90024 Become A Member Fowler Museum 198 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095 (555) 555-1212 Copyright © 2022 Fowler Museum. All Rights Reserved. Sitemap Privacy Policy We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT