Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Fox International Fellowships About Mission History Fox Team Joe Fox Apply Exchange Partners Yalies FAQs Publications Newsletters Policy Briefs Annual Reports Op-Eds Exchange Partners News Leadership Seminar Series Reunion 2017 Schedule of Events Abstracts Fox Five Year Plan Perspectives on Poverty and Human Development Fellows Current Fellows Alumni Fellow Spotlights Find A Fellow Events Events Calendar Next- Generation Africa: Creating Solutions for the Global Community Gender and Politics in Contemporary Turkey Redefining borders and peripheries in Central Asia & the Far East Welcome The Fox International Fellowship is a graduate student exchange program between Yale University and 21 world-renowned academic partners. The goal of the Fox International Fellowship is to enhance mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States and other countries by promoting international scholarly exchanges and collaborations among the next generation of leaders. Link to Fox Fellowship Mission… History The Fox International Fellowship was established in 1988 by Mr. Joseph Carrère Fox (Yale Class of 1938) as a way to provide a peaceful intellectual exchange between Yale University and Moscow State University in the midst of the tense international environment of the Cold War. Link to history of Fox Fellowship Director’s Letter I could not be happier or more enthusiastic to write as the new director of the Fox International Fellowship Program. Today more than ever we need a robust global civil society that can pull world together into a common mission of peace and prosperity for all. The Fox Fellowship is working to sustain and expand that global network. read more… In the News ANNOUNCEMENT Charting the rise of modern economic thought Doctors of the Pandemic - video now available More news & events... Fellow Spotlights Link to more student spotlights… Facebook Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Fox International Fellowship Program at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email