Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Robert A. Fox Leadership Program Toggle navigation Main navigation Fellowships Fall Fellowships Spring Fellowships Summer Fellowships Events Past Events Partnerships Campus Community National People Mission and History Awards Search Home APPLY NOW: SUMMER FOX FELLOWSHIPS Looking for an exciting and meaningful summer opportunity? Work alongside innovative leaders at the Brookings Institution, National Urban League, Girls, Inc., and many more. LEARN MORE Fighting Food Insecurity Dangela Fonseca C'24 has been putting her interest in nutrition and her Spanish skills to work at her fellowship at the Greater Philadelphia Coalition Against Hunger. READ HER STORY Remembering Robert A. Fox A loyal alumnus, a keen businessman, and a loving family man, Bob was an inspiration to us all. Read More Featured Fellowships Children’s Healthcare is a Legal Duty (CHILD USA) CHILD USA is a child abuse nonprofit that cuts through the shame and the secrecy to gather and analyze the data behind abuse and neglect. As a child abuse nonprofit dedicated to protecting kids and preventing abuse, CHILD USA conducts research, compiles evidence, promotes ideas, and proposes the most effective policies to prevent childhood abuse and neglect. Brookings Institution The Brookings Institution is a nonprofit public policy organization based in Washington, DC. Their mission is to conduct in-depth research that leads to new ideas for solving problems facing society at the local, national and global level. National Urban League The National Urban League is a historic civil rights organization dedicated to economic empowerment in order to elevate the standard of living in historically underserved urban communities. Featured Video A 10-Year Covenant to Serve: Penn's Fox Leadership Program in Post-Katrina New Orleans Links Civic House Netter Center SNF Paideia Program Year of Civic Engagement Contact Us Robert A. Fox Leadership Program Leadership Hall 3814 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6197 foxleadership@upenn.edu John Lapinski Faculty Director Stephanie Perry Executive Director Andrew Arenge Director of Operations College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn WebLogin