Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Share Apprentice Teacher Info The French and Italian Department encourages students to participate in the Apprentice Teacher (AT) Workshop in order to learn the Drill Method and try out for an AT position in French or Italian. The participation of veteran ATs contributes significantly to the training of new candidates. Participation in the full workshop is required to audition for a position as an AT. What is an Apprentice Teacher? Introduced in 1967, the Apprentice Teacher Program has become an important part of foreign language instruction at Dartmouth. Beginning language courses consist of master classes and drill sessions. The Apprentice Teacher (AT or Drill Instructor) “drills” students on the points they have learned in their master classes. The AT works closely throughout the term with the faculty member who teaches the master class. They are responsible for leading students in pattern drills and exercises, to practice and reinforce the grammatical points that have been taught in the master class. Who can be an AT? ATs in the Department of French and Italian are Dartmouth undergraduates, but they are not necessarily language majors. They are students with established linguistic skills who apply for the program, participate in the Apprentice Teacher Workshop and are selected by a faculty jury. How do you become an AT? Applicants for an AT position are not expected to be fluent in French or Italian, but must have completed the minimum requirement of French or Italian 3, and must have good linguistic competence and good accent. Enthusiasm, commitment and interest in language are important requirements. Applications will be available at the AT workshops. Each term the number of ATs selected varies according to enrollment figures and the number of French and Italian language sections offered by the department. What are the job expectations? ATs are responsible for conducting drills (either 7:45am or 5:20pm). Once each week ATs meet with their master teacher, an integral part of the job. ATs attend required meetings or training sessions during the term. AT performance is evaluated several times a term by faculty members who visit drills as well as a written evaluation at the end of the term by the master teacher. ATs do not provide grammar explanations. What are the benefits of being an AT? The AT position is a paid job. ATs increase their linguistic competence (pronunciation and grammar). An AT develops useful teaching and interpersonal skills. An AT works closely with a Dartmouth Professor, with a group of language students, and with other ATs. On-Campus ATs may apply for an AT position on a Dartmouth LSA program. There are several openings each year. ATs can benefit from the French and Italian AT Digital Badges Program. Upon successful performance they can receive a digital badge to display on their LinkedIn account When are the Apprentice Teacher Workshops? Workshops take place at the beginning of the Fall, Winter and Spring terms. The Spring 2022 Workshops will take place the last week in March. ATs (Drill instructors) workshop schedule – SPR22 French Schedule: >Monday, March 28th - Orientation and training: 4:30-7pm >Tuesday, March 29th - Training: 4:30-7pm >Wednesday, March 30th - Training: 4:30-7pm >Thursday, March 31st - Jury selection: 4:30 pm Fill this form to register: https://forms.gle/cKd3wZU6DcpLMSM78 If you cannot make it, please contact: brigitte.mosenthal@dartmouth.edu Italian Schedule: > Monday, March 28th: Remote asynchronous workshop on Canvas (only for experienced and prospective ATs who haven't completed this workshop last term). If you are a returning AT please log into the AT canvas site (https://canvas.dartmouth.edu/courses/7160) and fill out the application. Review the material on the modules as needed. If you are a new AT self enroll on the canvas site using this link:https://canvas.dartmouth.edu/enroll/GXEGKH . Fill out the application and complete the required asynchronous modules before the workshop (complete Modules 1-4 on "Canvas AT training" by 11:00 pm on March 28). > Tuesday, March 29th from 4:30 to 6:30 pm in Occom Commons: For prospective ATs, as well as experienced ATs who have not done drill in person. In person workshop with Helene and Matt. > Wednesday, March 30th from 4:30 to 6:30 pm in Occom Commons: Level specific practice and, if necessary. For both prospective and experienced ATs. > Thursday, March 31st from 4:30 to 6:30 pm in Occom Commons: Jury selection.du Veteran AT Remarks Freshman year, I auditioned to become an AT with the goal of improving my French. It undoubtedly helped my grammar and speaking abilities, but I stuck with the job through senior year because of the countless other ways it was enhancing my Dartmouth experience. Working closely with French professors to lead drill sessions built my confidence in public speaking, cultivated a love for teaching, and gave me the opportunity to learn from brilliant Dartmouth community members, both professors and students, whom I would not have met otherwise. It opened the door for an off-term spent working in Senegal, and developed skills I will absolutely use in my job next year as a consultant. I could not recommend the AT experience enough. In my biased opinion it's the best job on campus (and so much fun!!). Mary-Kate Milway '20 I absolutely loved being an AT. It is so rewarding to see the students improve their language skills throughout the term. You become friends with your drill-ees and I truly enjoy being able to help them as they grow and learn. The best part about being a drill instructor is the relationships you form. Zonia Moore'16 Working as an AT with the French Department has been truly rewarding. It has taught me how to be dynamic, how to communicate foreign concepts effectively, and the importance of body language in interpersonal engagement, all of which have proven helpful both inside and beyond the classroom. Drill instructing has also helped me discover a passion for teaching. There is little more gratifying than my students' excitement when they finally grasp a new grammatical concept or master a challenging pronunciation; their triumphs are also mine. Finally, my work as an AT has helped me form meaningful personal relationships with other students through our mutual love for French language and culture, as well as close professional relationships with passionate faculty members and other similarly motivated ATs. Adam Vandenbussche '22 Becoming an AT has been an extremely meaningful experience for me. This position has allowed me to form a stronger relationship with different professors and members of the Italian department, fortify my own language and grammar skills, and learn important skills in leadership and teaching that I otherwise would not have gained. An added bonus has been becoming good friends with the students I meet with four times a week and seeing more familiar faces around campus. Yasmeen Reza '20 In French, the verb apprendre means to learn but also to teach. This beautiful linguistic particularity captures the essence of being an AT. While I am teaching by helping the students consolidate what they have learned in class, I too am learning. Not only am I improving upon my French, but I am learning about teaching itself, the students, and how to face challenges. The most rewarding part of the job is watching the metamorphosis from the beginning, when the students are just trying to find their bearings, to when they emerge from the chrysalis of structure and begin to soar in the language. To know that I am a part of this process is humbling, and I plan to continue teaching, learning, and enabling butterflies to fly. John Damianos'16 My experience being an AT with the French and Italian Department was nothing but positive. The most rewarding part of my job was serving as a peer mentor to students interested in the Italian Language, as well as inspiring students to challenge themselves to improve their fluency. I also appreciated that more than one student lauded me for getting them out of bed for 7:45 drill with my energy and enthusiasm. Serving as an AT was also a wonderful way for me to practice my Italian speaking, grammar and vocabulary. Regarding my experience with the department, being an AT partly inspired me to be an Italian major, as it allowed me to foster meaningful relationships with students and professors in the department. Lucas Katler'15 Being an AT for the French department has been one of my favorite experiences while at Dartmouth. While the opportunity to maintain my own fluency is definitely a plus, the most rewarding part of the job is getting to meet and become friends with my drillees each term. I think that drill seems very intimidating at first – both for the students, who are put on the spot to speak a language they've only spent weeks or months learning, and for the ATs, who need to be engaging, confident, and fun for fifty minutes straight, three times a week. However, I've found that every term, thanks to everyone's engagement and efforts, my drillees and I end feeling so much more comfortable, both around the language and each other. It's really a special experience to be able to create an environment where students aren't afraid to make mistakes in order to grow! Heavenly Zheng'21 I have absolutely loved my experience being an AT in the Italian department. I initially decided to take on the job because I wanted to maintain my Italian skills before studying abroad in Rome next term. Not only did I maintain my Italian language skills, I also improved my leadership and teaching skills and met people whom I will be friends with for the rest of my time at Dartmouth. Overall I have learned so much about myself and Italian by being an AT. I would recommend it to any advanced language student. Madellena Thornton '17 My experience serving as an AT with the French Department has been nothing but incredibly positive. Having been a student of multiple foreign languages both before and during my time at Dartmouth, I am well aware of the human-to-human interaction that really helps bring "alive" the learning of a new language. In my opinion, participating in drill at the College is an incredibly important part of this process. Through interacting with a variety of students from a variety of backgrounds throughout my time as an Apprentice Teacher, I have not only had the opportunity to strengthen and practice my own language skills, but have also had the chance to help share my passion and love for language with others. I've met people through drill that have become some of my closest friends and have overall had an exceptionally great and rewarding time working in the position. Ian Reinke '22 Coming to Dartmouth, I never thought I would be involved in teaching other students. But after experiencing drill myself and becoming close to both of my former ATs, I knew I had to try teaching Italian myself. Even though I won't go into education after college, being an AT allowed me to become close with members of the Dartmouth community who I wouldn't have known or talked to otherwise. No other activity or club has allowed me to branch out and discover Dartmouth like drill. Mason Strazzella '21 Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback