Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Share French Study Abroad Programs Paris FSP Paris FSP Lyon LSA Toulouse LSA+ Toulouse LSA+ PreviousNext Language Study Abroad (LSA) in Lyon and Toulouse Offered in Lyon winter term. Offered in Toulouse spring term. Prerequisite: French 2 or French 11 with a grade of B or better. Note: French 9 (formerly French 6) may count toward the minor. The LSA program offers wide-ranging exposure to French life. Students take three Dartmouth-accredited courses taught exclusively in French: French 3, Intermediate French, emphasizes the acquisition and refinement of language skills. Taught by French university faculty. French 8, Exploring French Culture and Language. Practice in the active use of the language combined with an introduction to major aspects of French society. Students will write papers and participate in discussions based on books, articles, and films emphasizing social and historical concepts. The class will emphasize the local architecture and history in excursions and lectures by our French university faculty. Fulfills the prerequisite to the French Major or Minor. French 9, Readings in French Literature, deals with major figures, themes, or genres of French literature. Taught by the dartmouth Faculty Director, this course counts toward the French minor. Advanced Language Study Abroad (LSA+) in Lyon and Toulouse Offered in Lyon winter term. Offered in Toulouse spring term. Prerequisite: French 3 with a grade of B or better. NOTE: Two of the French LSA+ and 3 of the French FSP courses count toward the major or the minor. Students take three Dartmouth-accredited courses taught exclusively in French: French 8, Exploring French Culture and Language. Practice in the active use of the language combined with an introduction to major aspects of French society. Students will write papers and participate in discussions based on books, articles, and films emphasizing social and historical concepts. The class will emphasize the local architecture and history in excursions and lectures by our French university faculty. Fulfills the prerequisite to the French Major or Minor. French 10, Introduction to French Literature, taught by the Dartmouth faculty member in residence, allows students to use their growing mastery of the French language in readings and discussions of masterworks in the original language. French 12, Advanced Writing and Speaking in French, taught by French university faculty. Foreign Study Program (FSP) in Paris FSP in Paris is currently offered during the Winter and Spring Terms. The FSP in Paris provides an advanced program of study designed to expand the curriculum of Dartmouth College into new areas of significant intellectual discovery and cultural understanding through supervised study and residence. NOTE: Two of the LSA+ and all three FSP courses count toward the major or the minor. Students live with local families and take three Dartmouth courses taught exclusively in French: French 29: French Civilization. This course has two parts and meets three times a week. One weekly class meeting is devoted to history (with Professor Blanc), and the other to art history (with Professor Léglise-Costa.) The history component focuses on 19th and 20th century French history using narratives drawn from a variety of disciplines, namely literature, sociology, and history. The art history component includes both classroom study and site visits, such as excursions to monuments and museums. French 30: French Literature. Taught by the Dartmouth Professor who directs the program. In this course, students read representative works of French literature depending upon the choice and specialization of the director. The class may also attend plays and films in the city, or go on local excursions that are relevant to the course material, which often focuses on representations and discussions of Paris in a wide range of texts, documents, photographs, paintings, and films. French 31: French Language and Civilization. Taught by Professor Mathilde Sitbon, this course is designed to improve students' spoken and written French. The review of the more complex grammatical points is combined with exposure to aspects of contemporary French society and life in France, such as the educational system, new trends in French society, every-day life in Paris, and cultural differences between France and the US. Classes will sometimes be held in the city. In addition to their coursework, students explore the city and the region through short excursions to museums, architectural sites and participation in cultural events. Prerequisites for the FSP in Paris: Students must complete French 8 (or have been exempted from French 8 during Orientation week) with a grade of B or better. Students must complete a French 10 (or have received credit for French 10 during Orientation week) with a grade of B or better. French 10 should be taken as immediately prior to the term in Paris as scheduling allows. NOTE: French 8 and French 10 may be completed on the LSA+. Students who have received exemption from French 8 AND credit for French 10 during Orientation Week must take at least one French course at Dartmouth from among courses French 10 through French 25, with a grade of B or better, prior to participation in the Foreign Study Program. Prerequisite courses for the Foreign Study Program must not be taken NRO. OR Satisfactory completion of the LSA+ program in France during the term immediately preceding the Foreign Study term. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback