Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Areas of Study Renowned for its innovative, successful teaching of French and Italian language, literature and culture, the Department of French and Italian is a strong presence in the Humanities that is committed to engaging students throughout their careers. Some of the department's students choose to major in language and literature; many others connect their study of Italian or French with courses in government, economics, history or the arts. Each student shares the excitement that comes from being part of a program that is designed to meet individual needs, talents, and aspirations. See some of our faculty's core fields of specialization below! A photograph of the late and great John A. Rassias teaching the Rassias method of language. PreviousNext Medieval and Renaissance Literatures and Cultures Professors: Nancy Canepa, David LaGuardia, Andrea Tarnowski From Dante, Boccaccio, and Petrarch, to Rabelais, Marguerite de Navarre, and Montaigne, these two periods contain some of the most important figures of Western Literature. Dartmouth offers numerous intermediate and advanced courses in these disciplines. 17th-18th Century Literatures and Cultures Professors: Faith Beasley, Nancy Canepa, Scott Sanders, Kathleen Wine From the tragedies of Corneille and Racine, to the mythological epic of Marino and the fairy tales of Basile, through the comedies of Molière, to the salons and novels of de Scudéry and de Lafayette, to the theater of Goldoni, to the intellectual revolution of the Enlightenment, to the ultimate revolution of 1789, these two centuries were decisive for the subsequent history of Western Culture. Dartmouth offers a wide range of courses in these disciplines. 19th-20th Century Literatures and Cultures Professors: Yasser Elhariry, Lucas Hollister, Lawrence Kritzman, Graziella Parati, Robert St. Clair From Svevo and Balzac, through naturalism and surrealism, to the critical revolutions brought about by feminism and critical theory, to the tremors of post-colonialism, these two centuries have seen the development of an unprecedented number of literary and cultural trends. Students at Dartmouth have an opportunity of studying the multiple faces of these uniquely diverse centuries. French and Italian Cultural Studies The Department emphasizes the fact that literature is only one of a series of cultural artifacts that are the privileged objects of study, along with film, history, theory, music, television, gastronomy, monuments, and so on. It fosters the study of language through an expanded contact with this broad range of cultural manifestations in a wide range of courses. Francophone Literature Professor: Yasser Elhariry The Francophone countries in Africa, America, and Asia have provided some of the most provocative books and films of recent history. The transformation of French accomplished in these works is explored in a variety of courses at Dartmouth. Italophone Literature Professor: Graziella Parati The literary and creative works of the immigrants in Italy provide fertile ground for the study of culture, and of the enrichment of the Italian language by these new voices from Anglophone and Francophone areas. Overview Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules Majors Minors Honors Thesis Program Meet Us People of French and Italian Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback