Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search French and Italian in Translation The following courses are taught in English. Students taking FRIT courses for major or minor credit must attend a weekly x-hour in the target language to discuss the assigned materials and do readings and all written work in the target language. FRIT 31: Foreign Language Teaching Methods: Theory and Practice The course will provide a historical overview of approaches to foreign language (FL) teaching and learning and the theoretical notions underlying current pedagogical trends and classroom practices. Some of the topics that will be covered during the class discussion include: The National Standards for Foreign Language Learning; the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages; language learning and critical thinking; multiple intelligence in language learning; the integration of literature and culture in FL teaching; and digital pedagogy in the 21st century language classroom. Students will have the opportunity to apply course content through micro-teaching sessions, class-troubleshooting situations, class observations and the development of tasks and assessments. The course will also offer students the opportunity to reflect on language learning on a personal level, to find out how they think as language learners and how they can empower themselves to learn languages in an active and engaged manner. Open to all students. Text, lectures and discussion in English. Students taking the course for major or minor credit in Italian will attend a weekly x-hour and do all written work in Italian. Distributive and/or World Culture SOC FRIT 33.01: Dante's "Divine" Comedy Is there an afterlife? What is it like? Who may describe the hereafter in this world and shape my behavior? These are the ever-present questions that Dante’s Comedy poses. The course’s central themes will be exile and paradise: Exile means both Dante’s own banishment and the universal pilgrimage of life; paradise is the unattainable homecoming of true happiness. Students will explore the poem, its sources, and reception, developing a rigorous yet personal response to Dante’s Comedy. Open to all students. Text, lectures and discussion in English. Students taking the course for major or minor credit in Italian will attend a weekly x-hour and do all written work in Italian. Cross Listed Courses REL 32.02 Distributive and/or World Culture LIT; WCult: W. FRIT 34: Renaissance Studies in Translation An examination of Italian Renaissance masterpieces in translation, which will explore the centrality of Italian ideas and ideals to the development of literary and cultural norms in Italy and Europe. Topics will vary according to the focus established by each instructor. Open to all students. Text, lectures and discussion in English. Students taking the course for major or minor credit in Italian will attend a weekly x-hour and do all written work in Italian. In 15S, Sex and Gender in the Italian Renaissance. This interdisciplinary course explores conceptions of sex and gender in Italian Renaissance literature and visual art. We’ll trace a social history of love and sex in Renaissance Italy, examine how sex and sexual bodies were represented in literature and in images, and look at how governments and the Church attempted to manage and punish sexual transgression. Themes we will investigate include representations of male and female bodies, gender roles for both men and women, sexual violence, same-sex desire, and cross-dressing. Cross Listed Courses WGST 48.07 Distributive and/or World Culture LIT; WCult: W FRIT 35: Modern Italian Culture and Society According to the interests of the instructor, a major topic, art form, literary genre, or historical theme that concerns modern Italy will be approached in relation to Italian culture and society as a whole. The focus of the course will thus be interdisciplinary, emphasizing the interplay of the fine arts, literature, film, music, history, and philosophy. Possible themes include Literature and Politics in Nineteenth and Twentieth Century, The History of Italian Opera, The Culture of Italian Fascism, Italian Film (specific directors such as Fellini, De Sica, Bertolucci and Antonioni). Open to all students. Text, lectures and discussion in English. Students taking the course for major or minor credit in Italian will attend a weekly x-hour and do all written work in Italian. Distributive and/or World Culture LIT; WCult: CI FRIT 37: Topics in Literature and Culture Offerings of this course will consist of various topics in Literature and Culture. Open to all students. Text, lectures and discussion in English: Students taking the course for major or minor credit in French or Italian will attend a weekly x-hour and do all written work in the target language. Cross Listed Courses: FRIT 37.03 Black Feminisms in the French Atlantic is cross listed with AAAS 88.18 Dist:INT; WCult:CI Overview Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules Majors Minors Honors Thesis Program Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback