Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Areas of Study & Course Descriptions Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors Minors Honors Thesis Program Share 2022-2023 Italian Courses Summer 2022 Courses F.I.R.E: (Canepa) Fall 2022 Courses Italian 01: Introductory Italian at 10, 11, and 12 (Alberti and Zoller): (3 sections): An introduction to Italian as a spoken and written language, with emphasis on practical conversation. The course includes regular practice in class and scheduled drill-sessions in understanding and using the spoken language. Never serves in partial satisfaction of the Distributive or World Culture Requirements. Italian 02: Introductory Italian at 10 (Convertini): Rapid review and continued study of the fundamentals of Italian, with intensive work in vocabulary building. The course will also include an introduction to the culture and civilization of Italy. Open to students by qualifying placement or to students who have passed ITAL 1. Never serves in partial satisfaction of the Distributive or World Culture Requirements. Italian 03: Introductory Italian at 10 and 11 (Gilebbi): (2 sections): This course is designed to reinforce and refine spoken and written language skills through a review of grammar, exposure to a broad spectrum of language ranging from colloquial to literary styles, and the use of samples of Italian language from multiple sources such as advertising, comics, television and literature. Frequent compositions, quizzes, plus linguistic and thematic analysis of texts. Open to students by qualifying placement or to students who have passed ITAL 2 or ARTH 12. Never serves in partial satisfaction of the Distributive or World Culture Requirements. Italian 11: Intensive Italian at 11 (Alberti): This 1-credit course is designed for students with little or no knowledge of the Italian language, but who have a strong background in another Romance language (i.e. Spanish, French, Romanian, Portuguese, Catalan, and also Latin). Italian 11 is an accelerated course that combines Italian 1 and 2 in one term offering an exciting and fast-paced atmosphere to learn Italian. The course will have a web-based component, which, through cultural, grammar and multimedia learning activities, will complement face-to-face work and prepare students for their in-class work. In this course, students will learn to talk about familiar events in the present and the past, as well as formulate plans for the future. Weekly cultural videos will situate in context the grammatical content of the course making it relevant and meaningful. Students will be actively engaged in a variety of creative written and oral activities that will help them develop their language skills. Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to sign up for Italian 3 or apply for our Italian LSA in Rome. With the goal to facilitate the acquisition of the target language, this course will be conducted entirely in Italian. Prerequisite: One year or equivalent of university level instruction in a Romance Language or Latin; or three high school years of instruction in a Romance Language or Latin; or native speaking proficiency in a Romance Language; or permission of instructor Italian 9 at 11 (Callegari): Italian 9 expands on the skills acquired in the Italian language sequence (Italian 1, 2, 3, and/or the LSA) as well as offering a transition to Italian 10 and our upper-division literature and culture courses. This course introduces students to modern and contemporary Italian literature, culture and society through a focus on topics such as evolving political and regional identities, gender relations, the role of the media, and the culture of daily life. Students expand their active use of Italian, refine communicative, reading, and writing strategies, and comprehensively review grammar. Course work includes active participation in class discussions, oral presentations, and regular reading and writing assignments in the areas of narrative and poetry, cinema, music, and journalism. Instructors usually choose one or several "anchor" texts around which coursework revolves. Italian 14: Journey to Italy -- an Introduction to Italian Culture (Convertini) at 11: This course introduces students to Italian culture through a representative selection of texts and topics from past to present, as well as encouraging students to think critically about notions of culture and identity. Topics include stereotypes and the idea of national identity, modern history, society and politics, food culture, the visual arts, music, cinema, religion, science and technology, the environment, Made in Italy, immigration, sports, and mafia. In many units, guest lecturers will widen the discussion by considering the global impact of Italian cultural production across time and space. Students will actively engage with Italian cultural phenomena through in-class lectures and discussions, hands-on exercises, and site visits. Dist: SOC; WCult: CI. Italian 25.01: 20th and 21st-Century Italian Literature and Culture -- "Terrorism" (Parati) at 2: At the end of WWII a number of amnesties allowed former fascists, some of them guilty of genocide, to go free. Italy did not have what we could call a process of truth and reconciliation after the fall of the fascist dictatorship. While fascism and the founding of a new fascist party was deemed unconstitutional in the newly born republic, fascist groups continued to flourish engendering a number of attempted coup-d'etat aiming at re-establishing a fascist regime. They were also guilty of acts of terrorism including bombing and assassinations. As a consequence, terrorists groups of the extreme left emerged and became active in violent attacks that targeted people representing a political system that had been so tolerant toward fascists. They felt that the success of fascists groups was around the corner and that Italy was headed toward a totalitarian dictatorship. Through historical documentations, films, literature, and personal testimonies, we will explore thirty years of Italian history. Dist:LIT; WCult:W Prerequisite: ITAL 10 or Permission of the Instructor. If you have taken Italian 9, speak with the instructor to see if this course is appropriate for you. Italian 33.01: "Into and Beyond Dante's Inferno" at 12 (Callegari): The work of Dante Alighieri (1265-1321) stages from beginning to end a struggle between personal desire, social obligation, and the conflicting cultures of Christian religion and the body politic. The unprecedented fusion Dante made of these elements in the Commedia [The Divine Comedy] has guaranteed his great poem a vast public, extending across world cultures and the seven centuries since it initially traveled among elite readers in north-central Italy in the early decades of the fourteenth century. This course will first examine the development of Dante's poetic voice in La vita nova [The New Life, ca. 1293-94] and then focus on its subsequent expansion into an all-encompassing vision of life and death in Inferno [Hell, ca. 1306-09], the first of the three canticles of the Commedia. Situating Dante in his own time and place will be essential to our analysis of his poetry, but attention to the multiple ways that Dante's work has been interpreted, translated, and appropriated in other periods, languages, and media will provide a critical framework for understanding its enduring appeal, why – in the words of Italo Calvino – it "has not finished saying what it has to say." Readings, lectures, discussion, and written work – to include a mid-term exam, two short essays, and a final digital project – will be in English. Students taking the course for major or minor credit will attend a weekly X-hour and write the two essays in Italian. Dist:LIT; WCult:W Winter 2023 Courses Italian 01: Introductory Italian 1 at TBD (Gilebbi and Alberti) (2 sections): An introduction to Italian as a spoken and written language, with emphasis on practical conversation. The course includes regular practice in class and scheduled drill-sessions in understanding and using the spoken language. Never serves in partial satisfaction of the Distributive or World Culture Requirements. Italian 02: Introductory Italian 2 at TBD (Gilebbi and Zoller) (2 sections): Rapid review and continued study of the fundamentals of Italian, with intensive work in vocabulary building. The course will also include an introduction to the culture and civilization of Italy. Open to students by qualifying placement or to students who have passed ITAL 1. Never serves in partial satisfaction of the Distributive or World Culture Requirements. Italian 03: Introductory Italian 3 at TBD (Zoller and Alberti) (2 sections): This course is designed to reinforce and refine spoken and written language skills through a review of grammar, exposure to a broad spectrum of language ranging from colloquial to literary styles, and the use of samples of Italian language from multiple sources such as advertising, comics, television and literature. Frequent compositions, quizzes, plus linguistic and thematic analysis of texts. Open to students by qualifying placement or to students who have passed ITAL 2 or ARTH 12. Italian 10: Introduction to Italian Literature: Masterworks and Great Issues at TBD (Convertini): This course will offer a general introduction to Italian literature from the thirteenth century to the present. Topics will vary according to the interests of the instructor, but readings will center on such authors as Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Machiavelli, Ariosto, Leopardi, Manzoni, Pirandello, and Svevo. Dist: LIT; WCult: W Prerequisites: ITAL 8 or ITAL 9, or permission of the instructor. FRIT 31. "How Languages are Learned" at TBD (Convertini) Many approaches to language teaching and learning have been proposed and implemented over time. From learning grammar rules and lists of vocabulary to memorization and practice of correct sentences to natural communication, project work, communicative language teaching, and content-based learning, this course will introduce students to some of the language acquisition research that will help them understand how languages are learned. Taught in English. Dist: SOC; this is also an LRP course for the new language requirement. Italian 34: Renaissance Studies in Translation at TBD (Callegari): An examination of Italian Renaissance masterpieces in translation, which will explore the centrality of Italian ideas and ideals to the development of literary and cultural norms in Italy and Europe. Topics offered under the ITAL 034 rubric will vary. Open to all students. Text, lectures and discussion in English. Students taking the course for major or minor credit in Italian will attend a weekly x-hour and do all written work in Italian. LSA/LSA+: Parati Spring 2023 Courses Italian 01: Introductory Italian I at TBD (Gilebbi): 1 section Italian 02: Introductory Italian II at TBD (Alberti): 1 section Italian 03: Introductory Italian III at TBD (Alberti): (2 sections) Italian 11: Intensive Italian at TBD (Gilebbi) 1 section Italian 07: First Year Seminar (Wyatt) at TBD Italian 24: Nineteenth-Century Italian Literature and Culture at TBD (Canepa): This course examines the changes in literary vision and artistic forms from the beginning of the nineteenth century, through the country's unification, to the First World War. Emphasis will be placed on Italy's growing self-awareness as a nation and on analysis of aesthetic and intellectual issues. Particular attention will be given to popular art such as satire, cookbooks, and Verdi's operas, and to women's literature as an innovative cultural force. Readings may include Ugo Foscolo, Giacomo Leopardi, Alessandro Manzoni, Giovanni Verga, Marchesa Colombi, Carlo Collodi, Grazia Deledda, and F. T. Marinetti. Dist: LIT; WCult: W. Prerequisite: ITAL 10 or permission of the instructor. FRIT 37: Topics in Literature and Culture at TBD (Canepa) The fairy tale is among the oldest and most enduring forms of storytelling, a prototype of how humans have reflected on their condition across different times and spaces. Fairy tales are uniquely "in" and "out" of the world; their matter-of-fact mash-up of realistic and fantastic elements is an invitation to imagine dimensions different from the here-and-now. As such, they are a potent vehicle for the expression of cultural aspirations and anxieties, for the construction and subversion of ideologies and identities, and for the utopian hope for a better world. In this course, as we explore the rich European fairy-tale tradition, from the Renaissance to the 21st century, we will engage in deep and rewarding ways with this marvelous genre of narrative. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback