Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview French Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Share Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) The Department of French and Italian is pleased to announce the Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE). Beginning in Summer 2017, students will have the opportunity to spend ten weeks in Rome, fully immersed in Italian language (Italian 1 and Italian 2) and culture (Italian 4). The immersion experience will include visits to significant Roman monuments such as the Colosseum, Roman Forum, St. Peters and Vatican Museums, and the Borghese Gallery, as well as other towns and cities of Italy, and to participate in co-curricular activities such as visits to piazzas and markets, trips to the opera and sporting events, and more. Participants are housed in student apartments in the lively and charming neighborhood of Trastevere. The program will be directed by a Dartmouth faculty member in Italian. In the FIRE program, students will have the opportunity to experience Rome at its best and the diverse cultural and natural wonders in other areas of Italy, as well. And by participating in the program, students will complete two-thirds of the Dartmouth language requirement! FIRE Italian 1 - Intensive Italian in Rome This full-immersion language course covers the basics of Italian, with an emphasis on active, hands-on use of the language and the acquisition of the skills necessary to manage and feel comfortable in basic communicative situations. Topics will include meeting and greeting, school, food, and travel and free time. Students will also begin to investigate the many cultural riches of Rome and of Italy … all in Italian! One class day per week will be devoted to putting new skills to use in markets, shops, etc. The course is taught by faculty from Italiaidea Language School in Rome and TA (drill). FIRE Italian 2 - Intensive Italian in Rome This full-immersion language course is a continuation of Italian 1 in which students pursue their study of the basics of Italian, with an emphasis on active, hands-on use of the language and the acquisition of the skills necessary to manage and feel comfortable in basic communicative situations. Topics will include food and eating habits, shopping, houses and home life, leisure activities and social life, health and medicine, and city life. Students will also deepen their exploration of the many cultural riches of Rome and of Italy …all in Italian! One class day per week will be devoted to putting new skills to use in various sites in Rome. The course is taught by faculty from Italiaidea Language School in Rome and TA (drill). FIRE Italian 4 - Reading Rome This course introduces students to various topics of Italian culture through specific examples taken from the context of Italy’s capital, largest city, and one of the West’s most complex symbols: Rome. Topics include stereotypes and the idea of national identity, society and politics, youth culture, family and gender roles, the arts, and gastronomy. Students will learn to engage with Italian cultural phenomena through inclass lectures and discussions, frequent visits to sites pertinent to the material studied, as well as six half-day guided tours of important monuments and museums of Rome. This course is taught by the Dartmouth faculty director of the program. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback