Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Placement A series of three, one-term elementary courses in Italian (Italian 1, 2, and 3) or French (French 1, 2 and 3) gives students the foundations they need in the language and allows them to satisfy Dartmouth's language requirement. They are then able to move on to the intermediate courses in French (French 8, Exploring French Culture and Language and French 10, Intro to Francophone Literature and Culture) or in Italian (Italian 9, Italian Culture, and Italian 10, Introduction to Italian Literature). Details regarding placement in language classes is provided below. For more information, please contact our Language Program Directors Professor Brigitte Mosenthal for French inquiries and Professor Tania Convertini for Italian inquiries. FRENCH COURSE PLACEMENT AND EXEMPTION The number of previous courses taken in the language, and/or scores of the SAT II Subject Test or the CEEB Advanced Placement examination, will be used to determine placement as follows: French Course Placement French Course Placement French 1: A score of 0-530 on the SAT II Subject Test French 2: A score of 540-600 on the SAT II Subject Test OR completion of three or more years of French courses in high school French 3: A score of 610-710 on the SAT II Subject Text OR a score of 4 on the AP Incoming, first-year students who are planning to continue to study French, who have not been automatically placed based on their SAT II or AP scores or the number of years of French classes taken in high school should take the Online Written and Oral Exam. It is available through Canvas August 2-August 25. If you need an extension, please contact Brigitte Mosenthal. Exemption from the French Language Requirement (French 1, 2, 3) : The following scores/grades will exempt students from the Language Requirement: 1. A score of 5 on the CEEB Advanced Placement examination. 2. A score of 720 or higher on the SAT II Subject Test. 3. A grade of 6 or 7 on the Higher Level International Baccalaureate (IB). 4. A grade of "A" on the British A-Level. Exemption from French 8: Dartmouth's Advanced Proficiency Exam - An entering student who has been exempted from French 1, 2, and 3 is eligible to take the Advanced Proficiency Exam (APE) during New Student Orientation in September. The date of the Fall 2021 French APE Exam is September 2nd at 10 am. It will be delivered remotely - to sign up please contact Professor Faith Beasley at faith.beasley@dartmouth.edu by August 26th at 6pm. A score of 90 percent or more on the APE Exam earns exemption from French 8. Please note: If your scores in our local placement indicate that you are a candidate for exemption (please check instructions on the Canvas site), you are invited to take the Advanced Proficiency Exam (APE) during New Student Orientation on September 2nd at 10am by contacting Professor Beasley. A score of 90 percent or more earns exemption from French 8. French 8 (or exemption) and French 10 are prerequisites for participation in our Paris program; they are also required courses for all students who major or minor in French. Further Information Advanced Placement exam in French (APE): September 2, at 10am via Zoom. Registration via email is required by August 26th at 6pm. The APE exam is designed to make sure you can succeed in our classes beyond those designed for the acquisition of grammar competency. If you achieve a 90% you will be allowed to place out of French 8, (you will NOT receive credit for this class), which is a grammar review and culture course, and go directly to French 10. French 10 is the prerequisite course for the major and minor. It is a small seminar in which you learn the skills for literary and cultural analysis. After taking French 10 you are eligible to take any other courses in French, as well as apply for our foreign study program in Paris. Very few students actually place out of French 8 at Dartmouth so you should not be disappointed if you do not achieve 90% on the exam. It is definitely worth taking this exam, though, if you have placed out of the language requirement. We can best place you in the right level at Dartmouth if you take the exam. The exam takes about an hour. You do not need to prepare for this exam. It is an assessment of your current level in French. The first part of the exam will be synchronous and will consist of a dictation, followed by 3 questions to ascertain your comprehension of the passage. It will be conducted via Zoom. The examiner will read a paragraph and then ask you a series of questions to which you must respond in full sentences. The second part is asynchronous. This will consist of an exercise to evaluate reading comprehension. We give you a passage, followed by questions to ascertain your ability to understand and interpret a text. This will be followed by a third section, which is a test of advanced grammar concepts. It is mainly translation from English to French, and includes idiomatic expressions. You will have approximately 45 minutes to complete the second part of the exam on your own. You will then submit the completed exam to the examiner who will correct it by Sept. 3 in time for you to register for fall classes. Again, there's nothing you should do to prepare. We're most interested in seeing the level you're at and making sure that you could be successful in a French 10 class, which is the class you would place into should you get a 90% on the exam. If you are eligible to take the APE exam, (you have placed out of the language requirement through our internal online exam OR by high scores on external exams such as the SAT II, or you have had extensive experience living in France), please register to take the exam by August 26 at 6pm by informing the examiner via email: Faith.Beasley@Dartmouth.edu. Prof. Beasley will then send you a zoom invitation for the exam on September 2 at 10am. The APE exam is ONLY offered to incoming students their first term at Dartmouth. You will NOT be able to take this exam later. If you have a legitimate conflict with the time of the exam this year, please inform Prof. Beasley via email. ITALIAN COURSE PLACEMENT AND EXEMPTION The number of previous courses taken in the language, and/or scores of the SAT II Subject Test or the CEEB Advanced Placement examination, will be used to determine placement as follows: Italian Course Placement Italian Placement Italian 1: A score of 0-530 on the SAT II Subject Text Italian 2: A score of 540-600 on the SAT II subject test OR completion of three or more years of Italian courses in high school Italian 3: A score of 610-710 on the SAT II Subject Test OR a score of 4 on the AP Incoming, first-year students who are planning to continue to study Italian, who have not already been automatically placed based on the number of years of Italian classes taken in high school or on their SAT II or AP scores can take the Online Written and Oral Exam from August 2 -August 31. If you need an extension, please contact Tania Convertini. Exemption from the Italian Language Requirement (Italian 1, 2, 3) The following scores/grades will exempt students from the Language Requirement: 1. A score of 5 on the CEEB Advanced Placement examination. 2. A score of 720 or higher on the SAT II Subject Test. Italian Advanced Placement Additional Information Students interested in seeking Advanced Placement in Italian should inquire with Professor Tania Convertini at tania.convertini@dartmouth.edu Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions Course Schedules Majors Minors Honors Thesis Program Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback