Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Italian Major programs may be organized historically, around a genre (like poetry, drama, or prose fiction), or around a period concept or movement (such as the Enlightenment, baroque, classicism and romanticism, or existentialism). Major programs normally include one term of study in Italy. Two of the LSA+ courses count towards the major or the minor. Video of Why an Italian Major and Minor at Dartmouth? Why an Italian Major and Minor at Dartmouth? PreviousNext The Major in Italian - For Students Graduating in or after 2019 Prerequisite: Complete ITAL 8 through the Italian L.S.A. or L.S.A.+, or ITAL 9 on campus Course requirements for the major: 8 courses numbered ITAL 10 or above, excluding ITAL 11 (***see the exception below). 5 of the 8 must be numbered above ITAL 12. 3 of the 8 may be numbered Ital 12 or below. ITAL 10 is required for the major and may be taken on campus or on the L.S.A.+. With the approval of the Italian Major Advisor, ITAL 10 may be counted toward the major twice, provided the course topics are different. Along with ITAL 10 on the LSA+, ITAL 12 taken on the L.S.A.+ may count toward the major. ***If ITAL 9 is taken on campus and Ital 8 is taken on the L.S.A. or L.S.A.+, ITAL 8 will count as fulfilling the prerequisite for the major and Ital 9 may count toward the major. Of the 5 of the 8 courses required for the major that must be numbered above ITAL 12: At least two must be courses from the pre-1800 period (ITAL 21, ITAL 22, ITAL 23, ITAL 33, ITAL 34). At least two courses must be from the post-1800 period ( ITAL 24, ITAL 25, ITAL 26, ITAL 35, FRIT 93). FRIT and Italian courses taught in English (FRIT 31, ITAL 33, ITAL 34, ITAL 35, ITAL 37,) may count toward the major if the student attends a weekly x-hour and does the reading and all of the written work in Italian. Senior culmination in the major: Majors must complete a culminating activity. Two options are available for the culminating activity, both of which include an oral presentation of the completed project. For the culminating activity, students may take: ITAL 88: Senior Independent Reading and Research OR a) Take ITAL 88: Senior Independent Reading and Research, in which they are required to write a critical or research paper of at least 20 pages; OR b) Take an upper-level course numbered ITAL 15 or above, in which they are required to supplement course readings and activities with extra assignments chosen in consultation with the instructor, and to write a critical or research paper of at least 20 pages; OR c) Write a senior thesis (see Requirements for the Honors Major in Italian, below). The Honors Major in Italian for Students Graduating In or After 2019 Prerequisite: Complete ITAL 8 through the Italian L.S.A. or L.S.A.+, or ITAL 9 on campus Course requirements for the major: 9 courses numbered ITAL 10 or above, excluding ITAL 11 (***see the exception below.) 6 of the 9 must be numbered above ITAL 12 and must include ITAL 89 (the thesis). 3 of the 9 may be numbered Ital 12 or below. ITAL 10 is required for the major and may be taken on campus or on the L.S.A.+. With the approval of the Italian Major Advisor, ITAL 10 may be counted toward the major twice, provided the course topics are different. Along with ITAL 10 on the LSA+, ITAL 12 taken on the L.S.A.+ may count toward the major. ***If ITAL 9 is taken on campus and Ital 8 is taken on the L.S.A. or L.S.A.+, ITAL 8 will count as fulfilling the prerequisite for the major and Ital 9 may count toward the major. Of the 6 of the 9 courses required for the major that must be numbered above ITAL 12: At least two must be courses from the pre-1800 period (ITAL 21, ITAL 22, ITAL 23, ITAL 33, ITAL 34). At least two courses must be from the post-1800 period (FRIT 31, ITAL 24, ITAL 25, ITAL 26, ITAL 35). FRIT and Italian courses taught in English (FRIT 31, ITAL 33, ITAL 34, ITAL 35, ITAL 37) may count toward the major if the student attends a weekly x-hour and does the reading and all of the written work in Italian. ITAL 88 is required for the thesis and must be taken in senior year. ITAL 89 is required for the thesis and must be taken in senior year. Thesis: Identify and contact a potential faculty thesis advisor and submit the thesis proposal to the advisor by June 1 of the junior year. In the proposal, provide: The topic A brief bibliography of summer research readings.Enroll in ITAL 88 in the fall or winter term of the senior year. Enroll in ITAL 89 in the winter and spring terms of the senior year. Submit final thesis to the thesis advisor by May 8 in the senior year. Provide public oral presentation by May 22 in the senior year. Submit three bound copies of the thesis to the department by May 29. Overview Areas of Study & Course Descriptions Course Schedules Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program Italian Major Requirements in the ORC Italian Courses in the ORC Share Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback