Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian “Learning another language is not only learning different words for the same things, but learning another way to think about things.” - Flora Lewis Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Upcoming Lecture : 2/24 "Studying the Sound Worlds of Seventeenth-Century Paris: Where Street and Court Collide." Click here for more information on the upcoming lecture, "Studying the Sound Worlds of Seventeenth-Century Paris: Where Street and Court Collide." LSA+ students explore the many faces of Rome with Amir Issaa Students on the Rome LSA+ enjoy Rome and all that it has to offer. French Courses Offered for Spring 2022! Interested in learning more about French culture, or improving your French language skills? Look here for the courses scheduled for the upcoming Spring 2022 term. Haiti Roundtable - Beyond the Headlines Join the AAAS Department as they host a conversation on the confluence of forces behind the recurrent crises in Haiti. Italian Courses Offered for Spring 2022! Looking to learn about Italian Culture or improve your Italian language skills? Check out these Italian courses that will be offered for the upcoming Spring 22 term! FSP Paris Students Have Arrived! This Winter's FSP Paris students have landed to begin their studies and adventures abroad in Paris, France ! NOTICE FOR ITALIAN STUDENTS- 1st Week Remote Interested in taking Italian this winter? Join us on zoom for the first week of class! In person starting on Monday, January 10th. NOTICE FOR FRENCH 20 STUDENTS- 1st Week Remote French 20 held this Winter Term will be holding class via Zoom for the first week of classes. Please click here for the class link for the 10A course meeting. Interested in becoming a Drill Instructor for Italian? Read here for more information on how to become a Drill Instructor for Italian. Josephine Baker Inducted into France's Panthéon Dancer, Singer, Actress and Civil Rights Activist, Josephine Baker, is the FIRST Black woman to be inducted into France's Panthéon. Recent Publications view all The Green and the Black: Ecological Awareness and the Darkness of Noir Lucas Hollister PMLA Parade Sauvage Revue d'études rimbaldiennes 2020, n 31 Robert St. Clair Classiques Garnier Pacifist Invasions yasser elhariry / ياسر الحريري Liverpool University Press Nineteenth-Century French Studies 49:3-4 Robert St. Clair University of Nebraska Press Events view all Jun 02 3:00PM Italian Major Presentations Hopkins Center Faculty Lounge (Room 205) The Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian warmly invites you to the Italian Major Presentations taking place on Thursday, June 2, 2022. Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback