Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth French and Italian Department of French and Italian Contact Us French.and.Italian@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Back to Top Nav Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Share Job Opportunities Looking for a job, internship, or academic opportunity? Find below any current and open positions that are looking for candidates with language or writing skills in French or Italian. AT Students Job Offer for Italian AT students for Italian The Rassias Center is happy to report that we have had to open a new section of Italian within our evening language classes. As a result (!) we are looking for Italian Zoom Drill Instructors for our evening Semi-Intensive programs. The participants are adults from throughout the country and super enthusiastic about drill! The start date: November 1st and will run through November 17th Pay: is $18 USD per 45-minute drill Days are: Nov. 1, 3, 8, 10, 15, 17 Times: 17:15 to 18:00 and/ 18:15 to 19:00 (check in with the professor right before drill) Drills are supplied. We will train candidates with no experience and the proper level of language. Please note, we are also looking for substitutes Please email the Rassias Center to inquire at Rassias.Center@Dartmouth.edu In addition, we will be holding classes during the first weeks of December. 22-23 TAPIF (Teacher Assistant Program in France) The Teaching Assistant Program in France offers you the opportunity to work in France for 7 months, teaching English to French students of all ages. Each year, over 1,500 American citizens and permanent residents teach in public schools across all regions of metropolitan France and in the overseas departments of France such as French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique and Réunion. The American cohort is part of the larger Assistants de langue en France program, which recruits approximately 4,500 young educators from 60 countries to teach 15 languages annually in France. For more information click here. The deadline to apply for this opportunity is January 15th, 2022. French Translator/Transcriber - Willa Productions Willa Productions is seeking a French Translator/Transcriber for a very exciting Sundance Institute supported project. The work is not full translation work from scratch. The footage has already been transcribed and translated by our A.I. system and needs to be checked over and corrected by hand. This opportunity is paid at $15/hour and remote. Hours are flexible. There is a vast amount of footage, so we are looking for a meaningful time commitment. The film follows a cast of characters related to a conflict over an environmental issue in France. Please contact avery@willaproductions.com if you are interested in the position. Thank you! - A message from Avery McCann, Dartmouth Alum, Class of 2015 UC, Berkeley - Graduate Applications for Fall 2022 The Graduate Program in Romance Languages and Literatures at University of California, Berkeley is accepting applications for Fall 2022. This interdisciplinary program run by the Departments of French, Italian Studies, and Spanish & Portuguese offers students a unique opportunity to work with distinguished faculty in all three departments, as they take advantage of Berkeley's unmatched resources for comparative study of the literatures and linguistics of the Romance language family. Each student chooses a track of study within RLL: In the Literature track, students will gain a detailed knowledge of the literature of their Primary language. They will also develop a familiarity with two other Romance literatures sufficient to allow them to do the focused comparative work necessary for the preparation of the Qualifying Examination. Moreover, students will develop both historical and practical expertise in Latin as well as in the three chosen Romance languages. In the Linguistics track, students will gain in-depth knowledge of the structure and history (internal and external) of their primary language. They will also develop expertise in the linguistics of two other Romance languages and specialize in an area of general or applied linguistics. This, together with some training in Latin, will prepare them for the comparative Romance linguistic work that is required for the Qualifying Examination. There is considerable flexibility when it comes to choosing a dissertation topic in the RLL program. Recent graduates have written on subjects as diverse as medieval French syntax, Renaissance translation, and letters in French and Spanish from colonial Louisiana. Financial support for accepted applicants is available. We welcome applications from interested and highly qualified students. The deadline for admissions and fellowship is Wednesday, December 15, 2021, 8:59 PST. You will find a wealth of information about the program on our website; please feel free to contact us with any further questions you may have. For more information contact Evan Faidley, Graduate Student Advisor at frenchga@berkeley.edu Related DepartmentClassicsRelated DepartmentFilm and Media Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian Undergraduate Overview Placement Information & Exams Transfer Credit Areas of Study & Course Descriptions French Language Courses French Upper Level Courses French and Italian in Translation Italian Language Courses Italian Upper Level Courses Course Schedules 2023-2024 French Courses 2022-2023 French Courses 2021-2022 French Courses 2022-2023 Italian Courses 2021-2022 Italian Courses Majors French Italian Romance Languages French Studies Italian Studies French or Italian as a Modifier Minors Honors Thesis Program The Thesis French Timeline Italian Timeline Endowed Research Grant Study Abroad Overview French LSA/LSA+ Toulouse FSP Paris Italian Full Immersion Rome Experience (FIRE) Italian LSA/LSA+ Rome Opportunities Overview Apprentice Teacher Info Co-Curricular Opportunities Affinity Housing/Global Village French Language Program Italian Language Program Job Opportunities Director's Assistant Positions in Rome Student Awards and Prizes Arianna Pagani ’93 Memorial Prize In French And Italian Bruno Tollon Prize In French Studies Cloise Appleton Crane Prize In French And Italian François Denoeu Memorial Prize French Consulate Prize George E. Diller Memorial Prize Lawrence And Sheila Harvey Prize In French And Italian Paul D. And Marilyn M. Paganucci Prize In Italian Pray Modern Language Prize In French And Italian Ramon Guthrie Achievement Award In French The Colette L. Gaudin Prize in French Thomas J. Gaudet, Jr. Memorial Prize News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback