Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Free Speech Menu Toggle Search Main navigation Policy and Reporting Frequently Asked Questions Support and Resources Campus Climate Support and Resources Iowa State University has resources available for students, faculty and staff who want to learn more about free speech, address issues of concern or request assistance and support. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion This division supports students, faculty, staff, alumni and community members through a model of equity and inclusion that impacts every aspect of campus life and gives voice to all members of the university community. Learn more Employee Assistance Program This program provides timely and free access to confidential, professional services when you are facing a personal problem. The goal is to help you find solutions before the problem affects your health or job performance. Learn more Safety and Wellbeing A list of resources available to the campus community, including medical services, counseling and crisis services, and personal safety. Learn more Student Legal Services A legal aid office that provides free and confidential legal services for Iowa State students, spouse cardholders and recognized ISU student groups. Learn more Equal Opportunity This office serves ISU faculty, staff and students in ensuring equal access to employment and educational opportunities. Learn more Student Assistance The mission of Student Assistance is to help students achieve academic success, personal growth and well-being by providing direct support and connection to appropriate university and community resources. Learn more Inclusion at Iowa State Learn more about the efforts made by ISU community members to enhance the university climate, and develop your own understanding of what Iowa State values in the areas of diversity, inclusion, equity, and justice. Learn more Threat Assessment The ISU Police threat assessment process is designed to identify and investigate individuals and situations of concern, and if necessary, manage individuals and/or the situations to reduce any potential threat. Learn more Ombuds Office Free, confidential ombuds services are offered to help faculty, staff, postdocs, and graduate and professional students resolve university-related matters. Learn more Iowa State University Free Speech Contact Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...