Skip to main content Go to main site navigation Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Giving Library Tulane Search Undergraduate Undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Management Joint Bachelor of Science in Management/Master of Accounting Minors for Business Majors Energy & Entrepreneurship Specializations Summer Minor in Business Study Abroad Meet the Office Career Management Center Career Assessment Career Competencies For Credit Internship Ready to Apply? Graduate MBA Which MBA program is right for you? Two Year Full-Time Professional/Evening Executive/Weekend Joint Degrees JD/MBA MD/MBA MBA/Master of Sustainable Real Estate Development PhD About the Program Doctoral Faculty PhD Students Specialized Master's Which one-year program is right for you? Accounting Business Analytics Energy Finance Global Management Management Combining Specialized Master's Degrees Global International Partnership Programs Graduate Admissions Fellowships & Scholarships Graduate Admissions Faculty & Research Faculty Accounting Business & Legal Studies Finance Management Management Science Marketing All Faculty Publications Research Notes Interdisciplinary Programs Business Analytics Energy Health Care Real Estate Centers & Institutes Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Goldring Institute for International Business Stewart Center for Executive Education Tulane Energy Institute Careers Resources For Students For Alumni For Employers Meet the Career Consultants News & Events News Current News Faculty & Research In the Media Freeman Blog Events Event Calendar Special Events Burkenroad Investment Conference Commencement Graduate Reunions Tulane Business Forum Freeman Business Magazine Current Issue Archives About About Office of the Dean Mission & Core Values Equity, Diversity & Inclusion History, Facts & Figures Only at Freeman Our Campuses Contact Us Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Back Bachelor of Science in Management Joint Bachelor of Science in Management/Master of Accounting Minors for Business Majors Energy & Entrepreneurship Specializations Summer Minor in Business Study Abroad Meet the Office Career Management Center Back Career Assessment Career Competencies Graduate Back MBA Programs Back Which MBA program is right for you? Two Year Full-Time MBA Evening/Professional MBA Weekend/Executive MBA Joint Degrees Back JD/MBA MD/MBA MBA/Master of Sustainable Real Estate Development Specialized Master's Degrees Back Which one-year program is right for you? Master of Accounting Master of Business Analytics Master of Finance Master of Management Master of Management in Energy Combining Specialized Master's Degrees PhD Program Back PhD Program Information Doctoral Faculty PhD Students Global Programs Back International Partnership Programs Graduate Admissions Back Applications & Admission Requirements Fellowships & Scholarships Faculty & Research Back All Faculty Faculty Publications Faculty by Area Back Accounting Faculty Business & Legal Studies Faculty Finance Faculty Management Faculty Management Science Faculty Marketing Faculty Interdisciplinary Faculty Back Business Analytics Faculty Energy Faculty Health Care Faculty Real Estate Faculty Centers & Institutes Back Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Goldring Institute for International Business Stewart Center for Executive Education Tulane Energy Institute Careers Back Resources For Students Resources For Alumni Resources For Employers Meet the Career Consultants News & Events Back News Back Current News Faculty & Research In the Media Freeman Blog Events Back Event Calendar Special Events Back Burkenroad Investment Conference Commencement Reunions Tulane Business Forum Freeman Business Magazine Back Archives Current Issue About Back Office of the Dean Mission & Core Values Equity, Diversity & Inclusion History, Facts & Figures Only at Freeman Our Campuses Contact Us Home Centers & Institutes Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation The Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the Freeman School of Business brings together scholars, inventors, investors and students to solve problems and build businesses. Mission The Lepage Center is a center for entrepreneurial activity at Tulane, for knowledge about entrepreneurship in New Orleans, and for innovation in the Gulf South and beyond. Vision The Lepage Center will lead the effort to establish New Orleans as one of the greatest entrepreneurial ecosystems in the world. Our work will be in service to Tulane University’s overall purpose to create, communicate, and conserve knowledge in order to enrich the capacity of individuals, organizations and communities to think, to learn, and to act and lead with integrity and wisdom. Statement of Purpose “There is a real need for research in the best practices of entrepreneurship and growing a business. But it is also important to bring that expertise back into the wider community — both the under-served and well-served — to help entrepreneurs and innovators in New Orleans and the Gulf South achieve their goals and thrive.” - Albert Lepage Who We Serve The Lepage Center offers programs and resources geared toward the entire Tulane community, including faculty, staff, students and alumni both within Freeman and across campus. In addition, we work with entrepreneurs in the Greater New Orleans and Gulf South regions. Student programs include academic courses, five monthly pitch competitions and the Tulane Business Model Competition. Community programs include the Tulane Family Business Center and the Greater New Orleans Startup Report. Student Blogs Making Memoryz Living with dementia, Alzheimer’s or any other memory-impairing disease can have significant impacts not only on the individual with the diagnosis but also among their loved ones. Memoryz founder and CEO Rishawn Dindial, a medical student enrolled in the double MD/MBA program, understands this complicated shift firsthand after acting as his grandfather’s caregiver for most of his life. Read more... Racial Inequities and Small Businesses In October 2020, the Albert Lepage Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation hosted a panel discussion based on the Greater New Orleans Startup Report. The GNO Startup Report is an annual, comprehensive overview of the entrepreneurship ecosystem in Greater New Orleans. The report found that BIPOC-founded firms are half as likely to receive bank loans and angel investment as their white counterparts. Read more... Startup Founder Focus Groups Lepage Center MBA fellows conducted a series of focus groups with Greater New Orleans area company founders, who had responded to the survey for the 2019 Greater New Orleans Startup Report. The series included three focus groups with between seven and twelve participants in each. During the discussions, three major themes emerged: funding, talent, and mentorship & networks. Read more... About the Lepage Center Home History Impact Our Team Community Partners For Students Studying Entrepreneurship Student Venture Accelerator Course Student Incubator Pitch Fridays Mentorship Innovators-in-Residence Student Fellows Tulane Business Model Competition About the Competition How to Apply TBMC Winners For the Community Community Partners Mentorship Resources Tulane Family Business Center About the Center Membership & Benefits Family Business Forums Research Greater New Orleans Startup Report Count the Costs Faculty Fellows Awards Tulane Entrepreneurship Awards Student Blogs In the News Contact Us: Email 504-865-5306 Find Us: Goldring/Woldenberg Business Complex, Suite 330 Follow Us: A. B. Freeman School of Business Tulane University Goldring/Woldenberg Business Complex 7 McAlister Drive New Orleans, LA 70118 Contact & Directions Copyright | Privacy Policy Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Careers News & Events About Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Giving Library Tulane Search Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter