Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Free Speech Menu Toggle Search Main navigation Policy and Reporting Frequently Asked Questions Support and Resources Campus Climate Iowa State University embraces its role as a First Amendment campus and is committed to the constitutional protections of free expression. The protections afforded by the First Amendment are core values of Iowa State and fundamental to the university’s mission to create, share and apply knowledge to make Iowa and the world a better place. Board of Regents Policy on Free Expression The Board of Regents is committed to the principles of free expression embodied in the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and Article 1, Section 7 of the Constitution of the State of Iowa. Any member of the campus community who believes their right to free speech or expression has been violated may file a complaint with the Executive Director of the Board of Regents as outlined in their policy. Spring 2022 Free Speech Training The state Board of Regents and Iowa's public universities have created a training program to assist members of the campus community in better understanding their rights to free expression. The training is required for all students, faculty and staff, and must be completed by the end of the spring 2022 semester. The training is available on students' Canvas dashboard. Faculty and staff can access the training via Learn@ISU. Completing the training on a laptop or desktop computer is recommended. Trouble accessing the training? Contact Iowa State's IT Solution Center: solution@iastate.edu or 515-294-4000. Iowa State University Free Speech Contact Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...