Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Freedom and Citizenship Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us News Alumni Summer College Civic Leadership Apply Donate Our Program History Staff Consortium Partners Boston University Dickinson College George Fox University Newberry College University of Rochester Yale University Opportunities for Alumni Connect With Us Support F&C! Civic Leadership Summit Teagle Humanities Fellowship Syllabus Professors Schedule Dorm Life Calendar Climate Education Food Insecurity Gender Equality Domestic Violence Healthcare Mental Health Disability Rights Housing Immigration Human Trafficking Refugees Justice Freedom and Citizenship Home Alumni Fellowships! Learn. Engage. Prepare for college and a life beyond. The Freedom and Citizenship college seminar and academic enrichment program began in 2009 as a partnership between Columbia’s Double Discovery Center and the Center for American Studies. Our goal is to introduce dedicated high school students to college-level work in the humanities and prepare them for lives as informed, responsible citizens. Students attend a free four-week residential program in July where they take an intensive seminar course on political philosophy taught by Ivy League professors. The summer program is followed by a year-long civic leadership project where students research contemporary political issues and develop advocacy initiatives under the supervision of undergraduate teaching assistants. In the autumn, students also benefit from college application guidance from the Double Discovery Center and mentoring from Columbia College undergraduates. Successful students receive letters of recommendation from their summer professors to accompany their college applications. Read more about us Frank Bruni, "Plato and the Promise of College" Inside Higher Ed, "An Intimate Education" Can a summer of big questions push students to college? The Teagle Foundation, "Project Profile" Learn About Our History Applying The Summer Seminar Civic Leadership Recent News 4 F&C Students Profiled in Columbia Neighbors Columbia Neighbors Newsletter highlights four seniors from Freedom and Citizenship to learn about their college plans and what they liked most about our program! Read the article here. View this profile on Instagram Freedom and Citizenship (@freedomandcitizenship) • Instagram photos and videos Google Map Location Center for American Studies1130 Amsterdam Ave, 320 Hamilton Hall, MC 2810 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-6698 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close