Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | French Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Faculty Courses Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Language Program Visiting Scholars Welcome Contacts and Services Diversity and Inclusion A Brief History Professors Lecturers Office hours Faculty Comment Publications Faculty Emeriti In Memoriam Graduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Descriptions CU Directory of Classes Graduate Studies MA in French MA in History and Literature MA Access Program PhD in French PhD in French and Comparative Literature Degree Requirements MA in French PhD in French PhD in French and Comparative Literature Current Graduate Students French Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Profiles Graduate Student Resources Placement French and Francophone Studies Major in French and Francophone Studies Concentration in French and Francophone Studies BA/MA in French Studies in Paris Funding for Study and Research Abroad Advanced placement credit Placement test and requirement Free Tutors (enrolled students) Café Conversation Proficiency exam (graduate level) Private Tutors Visiting Scholars 2021-2022 Visiting Scholar (info) Columbia | French Columbia Department of French Photo: Charlotte Force French at Columbia University Located in New York City, the Department has been a thriving point of contact for scholars from around the world since its founding in 1890. QUICK LINKS globe icon Graduate Program graduation-cap icon Undergraduate Program book icon Language Program group icon Contacts and Services NEWS Pierre Force’s book Wealth and Disaster was cited in the May 21, 2022 New York Times story about Haiti’s independence debt: “The Ransom”. Congratulations to Jeanne Devautour, who has been awarded a Mellon Humanities International Travel Fellowship for Fall 2022. New in print: Maryse Condé, a Writer for our Times (Yale French Studies, 140), edited by Madeleine Dobie and Kaiama L. Glover. This new volume of essays considers the work of Professor emerita Maryse Condé in light of contemporary social and political dynamics and movements, from #MeToo and BLM to the existential threats of climate change. The volume includes translations by PhD students André Pettman (Elsa Dorlin), Sophia Mo (Myriam Cottias) and Nadrah Mohammed (Cilas Kemedjio). Congratulations to Soraya Limare, who has been named as a fall 2022 Camargo Foundation Fellow. Conference honoring the late Professor Henri Mitterand Friday, March 25, 10am-6pm, Paris-time. At 4:30pm (11:30 NY time) there will be a round table on Henri Mitterand's "Années à Columbia" with former colleagues and students Pierre Force, Antoine Compagnon, Heidi Holst-Knudsen, Dominique Jullien, Séverine Martin, and Göran Blix. Please request the Zoom link to this event from Benita Dace. Congratulations to Sophia Mo, who has been selected for a Mellon/ACLS Dissertation Completion Fellowship for her project, Sisterhood in Translation: Gender, Nationalism, and Cross-colonial Solidarity in Algeria. Antoine Compagnon, Blanche W. Knopf Professor of French and Comparative Literature, was elected to the Académie française on February 17, 2022. He joins a body founded in 1635, which is dedicated to the "defense and illustration of the French language" and has included distinguished writers, scholars, artists, scientists, and public servants from France and the French-speaking world. Continued... Recent Publications Une histoire de la guerre Du XIXe siècle à nos jours Une histoire de la guerre Du XIXe siècle à nos jours Voici Une histoire de la guerre, dans tous ses aspects et toutes ses dimensions, depuis l’essor des États-nations au début du XIXe siècle jusqu’à la quasi-disparition actuelle des affrontements interétatiques. Le fagot de ma mémoire: De Saint-Louis à New York, itinéraire d'un philosophe musulman The philosopher and professor retraces his life between Saint-Louis-du-Senegal, Ziguinchor, Dakar, Paris, Chicago, New York, places that formed this man of three continents. STOLEN SONG: How the Troubadours Became French STOLEN SONG: How the Troubadours Became French Eliza Zingesser's Stolen Song documents the cultural appropriation of troubadour song as French, elaborating a new approach to questions of political and cultural identity. Google Map Location Department of French515-521 Philosophy Hall, Columbia University, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue, Mail Code 4902 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212.854.2500 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close