Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Frosh 101 Search this site Submit Search Menu What is Frosh 101? History of Program Program Overview Participating Dorms Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What is Transfer 101? What is Sophomore 101? People Instructor and Staff Profiles TA Profiles Student Testimonies Get Involved Enroll in Frosh / Transfer 101 How to Become a Co-Lead: UAR 194 A/B How to be a TA for UAR 194 A/B Student Resources Main content start What is Frosh 101? Frosh/Transfer 101 is a discussion-style course designed to help first-year students transition to Stanford's dynamic campus. In Frosh/Transfer 101, approximately 10 first year students will come together each week to learn more about your peers, yourself, and who you will be in this new environment. Upperclass students will lead you through activities and discussions that will serve to build the foundation for a strong community that is inclusive of diversity and promotes emotional and social wellbeing. This course will also create space for you to reflect on your values and goals as you make important decisions about how you will navigate all that Stanford has to offer. Learn More About Frosh 101 History of Program Program Overview Participating Dorms Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Stanford Frosh 101 Web Login Address Frosh/Transfer/Sophomore 101 Office Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3082 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter Connect with Us Meet the Team Contact Us Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education About VPUE About Academic Advising Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top