Skip to main content Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Faculty Senate Roster Committees Resources Weekly Top 5 Events Subscribe Suggestions Information Explore: Roster Committees Resources Weekly Top 5 Events Subscribe Suggestions Information Welcome to the Faculty Senate About Faculty Senate Welcome to the University of Houston Faculty Senate Website! The faculty senate is an elected body of 134 faculty senators who represent the over 2000 tenured, tenure-track and non-tenure track faculty of the University of Houston. A primary function of the faculty senate is to participate in shared governance, which is basically a collective commitment of the faculty and administration at the University of Houston to work together, towards accomplishing the university’s primary goals of excellence in teaching and research. We can all take pride in the fact that shared governance works exceedingly well here at UH! View More It is my hope for the upcoming year and years ahead that the faculty senate continues to be the safe space where varied viewpoints can be expressed freely. The senate works most effectively when everyone is engaged and voicing the diverse views of the faculty of the various colleges. So please do not hesitate to contact me or any other senator to convey your concerns or simply to express your views on any matter. The senate website is undergoing a major update and will, I hope, be much more dynamic, user-friendly, and information-filled in the future. In the meantime, take a moment to look through the current version which contains various resources including meeting rosters, minutes, the faculty handbook and other useful information and links. With Best Regards, Vallabh Das, PhD 2021-2022 Faculty Senate President Download the 2019 Faculty Handbook COVID-19 (Coronavirus) For the latest COVID-19 updates at the University of Houston, please visitÂ https://uh.edu/covid-19/ Weekly Top 5 1. Information Session: Horizon Europe On Monday, May 16th, Online @ 2pm3:30pm. Come learn about collaborative research opportunities with Horizon Europe, the European Union funding program for research and innovation. Florent Bernard, Ph.D, Counsellor for Research and Innovation of the European Union Delegation to the U.S. will talk about collaborative research opportunities for UH researchers. These include postdoctoral fellowships for U.S. residents going to the EU and Associated Countries (AC) and for EU and AC residents coming to visit U.S. universities. Click here for the flyer and to register. Click here for more about Horizon Europe. 2. Drug Discovery Institute Research Forum – Discovery of Novel Biomarkers and Drug Targets in Cancer On Tuesday, May 17th, Online @ Noon-1pm. Meghana Trivedi, Director of Clinical and Translational Research at the College of Pharmacy, will talk about a novel approach to discover biomarkers to assess on-target effects using circulating tumor cells and predict clinical response of FDA-approved or investigational drugs in patients and overall strategies to discover novel drug targets with both efficacy and safety. Click here for the flyer and to register. 3. Next University of Houston Board of Regents Meeting On Thursday, May 19th, Livestream @9am-5pm. You can watch parts of the University of Houston Board of Regents meetings via livestream. Click here for the full meeting timetable and to join. 4. Dr. Nouhad Rizk has been named a 2022 Piper Professor Dr. Rizk, Instructional Professor of Computer Science and Director of Undergraduate Studies in the Department of Computer Science, is the first woman instructional professor at the University of Houston to earn this designation and is University of Houston’s 13th Piper Professor. Each year, the Minnie Stevens Piper Foundation selects an elite group of faculty members from throughout the state for this highly valued recognition. Click here for the full announcement. 5. Borders, Trade, and Immigration Institute has a New Director Dr. Craig Glennie, Cullen College of Engineering Professor in Civil and Environmental Engineering, is the new Director of the University of Houston’s Borders, Trade, and Immigration (BTI) Institute. This institute is one of eight nationally recognized research centers at UH. It is funded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and is designated as an emeritus DHS Center of Excellence. Click here for the full announcement. Click here to learn more about the institute. Highlighted Events There are no Highlighted events at this time. All Events Contact Information 306 M.D. Anderson Library Houston, TX 77204-2005 713.743.9181 fsenate@central.uh.edu Follow us on Social Media! ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies