Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Culinary Food Science If you like to experiment with food and enjoy creating delicious and innovative recipes, this major might be right for you. It is a food science-based degree in which you build a strong foundation in science while learning basic culinary skills. You will study food chemistry, nutrition, and food microbiology, as well as food safety, sanitation, quantity food production, and fine dining management with courses in food science, human nutrition, and hospitality management. Program Information Curriculum Requirements 2022-23 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year Plan 2022-23 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Course Sequences Course sequence flow sheet (PDF) Accelerated Degree Option An accelerated degree option is available for the culinary food science program. Careers and Internships Internships As a culinary food scientist, you will be prepared for employment in food research and development, food marketing, test kitchens, and much more. You’ll gain real-world experience by completing an internship in food science or the culinary industry. For examples of student internships, check out our Career Connections profiles. Career Connections FSHN 491-CUFS HandbookDownload Your Internship Handbook for your academic internship will be your guide throughout the program. It includes your checklist, approval, journal, and cooperating supervisor evaluation forms as well as a detailed description of the internship requirements. Once you accept an internship opportunity, report it to Career Services as well as your internship coordinator. Report Your Internship Career Services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff help you with job searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter review. As a student in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences or the College of Human Sciences, use the career services offices associated with your college. Ready for the next step? Visit Us Apply Now Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Related Programs Dietetics Food Safety Food Science Nutritional Science Student Spotlight: Sara Siebrecht “My dairy allergy has a lot to do with how I approach food... This is why creating allergen-friendly recipes has always been close to my heart.” View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition 2312 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011-1061 515-294-3011 Undergraduate Advising Office 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-4436 fshninfo@iastate.edu Quick Links College of Agriculture and Life Sciences iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility