Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Dietetics Dietetics Dietitians are nutrition experts who strive for optimal health and nutrition of individuals and the population. The curriculum for the dietetics program as well as the diet and exercise program meet the academic requirements of the didactic program in dietetics and prepares students for a career in the field of dietetics. The program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics, the accrediting agency for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Additional Links: Career information Admissions process Courses for Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) Dietetics organizations and learning communities Program missions and goals Verification statement Contact dietetics Program Information Dietetics Curriculum Requirements 2022-23 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year Plan 2022-23 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Course Sequences Course sequence flow sheet (PDF) Accelerated Degree Option An accelerated degree option is available for the dietetics program. Individualized Supervised Practice Pathway (ISPP) A 6-month pathway for individuals who have doctoral degrees. Pathways to Become a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) Effective January 1, 2024, the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) will require a minimum of a master’s degree to be eligible to take the credentialing exam to become a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN). In order to be approved for registration examination eligibility with a bachelor’s degree, an individual must meet all eligibility requirements and be submitted into CDR’s Registration Eligibility Processing System (REPS) before 12:00 midnight Central Time, December 31, 2023. For more information about this requirement visit CDR’s website. In addition, CDR requires that individuals complete coursework and supervised practice in program(s) accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND). Graduates who successfully complete the ACEND-accredited didactic program in dietetics coursework at Iowa State University are eligible to apply to an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program, which is required to be eligible to take the CDR credentialing exam to become an RDN. In most states, graduates also must obtain licensure or certification to practice. For more information about state licensure requirements visit the Commission on Dietetic Registration. For more information about educational pathways to become a RDN visit the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Read about career opportunities and salary information for registered dietitian nutritionists. Accreditation Iowa State University’s Didactic Program in Dietetics is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND®), the accrediting agency for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. 120 South Riverside Plaza Suite 2190 Chicago, IL 60606-6995 800/877-1600, ext. 5400 https://www.eatrightpro.org/ACEND Get Involved Students are encouraged to develop leadership and professional skills and abilities through involvement in student organizations and other extra-curricular experiences. Work and volunteer hours are valuable for enhancing professional potential as well as study abroad experiences and Honors Program membership. Ready for the next step? Visit Us Apply Now Need More Information? Anne Oldham 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6414 aoldham@iastate.edu Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition 2312 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011-1061 515-294-3011 Undergraduate Advising Office 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-4436 fshninfo@iastate.edu Quick Links College of Agriculture and Life Sciences iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility