Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences Home> Graduate Students> Graduate Programs> Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences The overall health and well-being of both humans and animals is strongly influenced by diet. The Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences (IGPNS) integrates information from across 10 disciplines to give students a well-rounded understanding of nutrition and its application; providing the structure for coordinating and enhancing interdisciplinary nutrition research and graduate education. Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in Nutritional Sciences are offered with three specializations: Animal nutrition Human nutrition Molecular/biochemical nutrition General Requirements There are specific minimum course work requirements for each degree. Each student is required to consult with his or her advisor or major professor every term prior to registration for course work. Course work for the degree program requires approval of the Program of Study (POS) Committee, the IGPNS director of graduate education (DOGE), and the ISU Graduate College as filed with the POS plan. The Program of Study (POS) Committee The POS Committee is chosen by the graduate student and the major professor and is approved by the DOGE (director of graduate education). This committee directs the types and number of courses taken. The agreed contract is called the program of study (POS). Depending on your specialization, the POS Committee may also provide direction for course selection. Peace Corps Coverdell Fellowship Coverdell Fellows that join our graduate program will engage with faculty on research and service projects that synergize their experiences, coursework and research. Degrees Awarded: Master of Science (M.S.) Admissions Deadlines: October 1 and February 1 Program Start: Typically start of fall semester, but students may enroll at the start of spring or summer semesters. The application form, GRE exams, 3 letters of reference and official transcripts must be provided. Applications are screened by the IGPNS admissions committee for quality of previous education, GRE scores and compatibility with faculty research interests. More information is available on the Peace Corps website. Graduate Minor in Nutritional Sciences Nutritional sciences graduate minor students must complete the following curriculum: 9 to 12 credits are required. Students who have not taken FSHN 360 or its equivalent (advanced nutrition with a biochemistry prerequisite) will need to take FSHN 360, in which case the Nutrition Graduate minor will constitute 12 credits. 9 credits of graduate-level nutrition courses as approved by the POS Committee. View the Graduate College Handbook Nutritional Sciences Handbook Need More Information? Brenda Emery 220 Mackay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6442 fshngraduate@iastate.edu Graduate Programs Food Science and Technology Curriculum Application and Admission Research Areas Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences Curriculum Application and admission Student Learning Outcomes Diet and Exercise Program Overview Application and Admission Graduate Study Research Areas Student Learning Outcomes Food Safety and Defense Graduate Certificate Online Program Master of Family and Consumer Sciences in Dietetics Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics Student Spotlight: Mark Bollom “If you understand how [food] is assembled, you can understand a little more about why it’s having the impact that it does on our health.” View Career Connections: Jacie Legois Major: Culinary Food Science Organization: ISU Dining View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition 2312 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011-1061 515-294-3011 Undergraduate Advising Office 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-4436 fshninfo@iastate.edu Quick Links College of Agriculture and Life Sciences iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility