Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Food Science Food Science If you’re interested in studying the process of food from the time it leaves the farm until consumers buy the food products, then the food science major may be your perfect fit. Food scientists apply basic science (chemistry, biology, physics) to improve food quality, safety, and nutrition and to develop new food products. The food science program is approved by the Institute of Food Technologists, and students take courses focused on food chemistry, food microbiology, food quality assurance, sensory evaluation of food, and food product development. Graduates have secured positions in the food industry, sales and marketing, food processing, biotechnology, government, and research. Program Information Food Science Curriculum Requirements 2022-23 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year Plan 2022-23 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Professional Electives 2022-23 professional electives (PDF) Course Sequences Course sequence flow sheet (PDF) Concurrent Program Students have the opportunity to pursue a Master of Business Administration (MBA) concurrently with the Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in food science. The program is designed so students can earn the BS in food science and MBA in five years, to meet the needs of students who are interested in management careers in the food industry. Students apply for admission to the MBA program in the spring of the third year. The program for concurrent BS in food science/MBA degrees is a rigorous 5-year program, and admission is very selective. Read more about this concurrent program » Accelerated Degree Option An accelerated degree option is available for the food science program. Get Involved Learning Communities Clubs and Organizations Careers and Internships Food scientists work in food industry, academia, and non-profit and government institutions. A food science degree can lead to positions focused on: Food quality and microbiology Food engineering Product development Food chemistry Sensory science Food marketing and sales For more information about careers in food science, view the following websites of the Institute of Food Technologists: Become a Food Scientist Institute of Food Technologists Career Center Career Services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff help you with job searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter review. As a student in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences or the College of Human Sciences, use the career services offices associated with your college. To apply for internships and full-time positions, use CyHire, on-campus career fairs, and the college career services offices. Ready for the next step? Visit Us Apply Now Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition 2312 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011-1061 515-294-3011 Undergraduate Advising Office 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-4436 fshninfo@iastate.edu Quick Links College of Agriculture and Life Sciences iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility