Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Nutritional Science Nutritional Science If you’re interested in studying the connections between health, nutrition, disease, and wellness, our nutritional science major may be for you. Nutritional science looks at the connection between diet and health. You will learn how diet can play a crucial role in the cause, treatment, and prevention of many diseases. Pre-health professional and research option. Coursework prepares students for work in research laboratories, graduate study in nutrition or biological sciences, or entrance into health professional programs, such as medical, dental, physician assistant, and pharmacy schools. Students gain a strong science education along with human nutrition expertise. Refer to the pre-health professions webpage for more specific information on how the coursework corresponds with typical professional school requirements. Health coach and nutrition and wellness options. Coursework prepares students for work positions in program planning and evaluation for community, public health, non-profit, and corporate wellness programs addressing the growing public interest in nutrition, wellness, and preventative health. Students learn about the role of nutrition and healthy eating for disease prevention and wellness. Graduates find careers in community nutrition, public health, and related programs as well as graduate study. Program Information Pre-health Professional and Research Option Refer to the pre-health professions webpage for curriculum and 4-year plans specific to certain professions. Health Coach and Nutrition and Wellness Options Curriculum Requirements 2022-23 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year Plans 2022-23 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Course Sequences Course sequence flow sheet (PDF) Accelerated Degree Option An accelerated degree option is available for this nutritional science option. Get Involved Learning Communities Clubs and Organizations Careers Graduates of the pre-health professional and research option are well-prepared for entrance in health professional programs such as medical, dental, and pharmacy school or to pursue careers in nutrition research and advanced study. Students pursuing a pre-professional program of study are encouraged to contact the admissions counselor at the university where they plan to complete their practice degree to determine specific course requirements. Graduate programs in nutrition Career services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff help you with job searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter review. As a student in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences or the College of Human Sciences, use the career services offices associated with your college. Ready for the next step? Visit Us Apply Now Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Student Spotlight: Isaac Ramos "My parents always taught me, ‘Work hard, and you will get rewarded in what you do.’ So that’s what I did at school.” View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition 2312 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011-1061 515-294-3011 Undergraduate Advising Office 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-4436 fshninfo@iastate.edu Quick Links College of Agriculture and Life Sciences iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility