Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Food Science and Technology Home> Graduate Students> Graduate Programs> Food Science and Technology Food Science and Technology Food science and technology program offers these degrees: Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy and Technology Graduate minor Graduate work in meat science is offered as a co-major in Animal Science and Food Science and Technology Food Science and Technology Handbook Graduate College Handbook Learning Outcomes Apply scientific thinking in the analysis, synthesis and evaluation of knowledge within the discipline of food science, nutritional sciences or dietetics. Apply ethical reasoning within the discipline of food science, nutritional sciences or dietetics. Effectively communicate discipline-specific information in written and oral forms to scientific audiences. Effectively interact within scientific teams. Outcomes Assessment Satisfactory completion of degree course requirements with a minimum cumulative GPA ≥ 3.0, including a grade of B- or better for courses within the major. Satisfactory seminar attendance Student-developed POSC assigned to ensure satisfactory program of study Successful defense of original thesis research to POSC For Ph.D. students, satisfactory completion of written and oral preliminary examination Professional presentation of thesis research as a departmental seminar Preparation of a manuscript for submission to a peer-reviewed journal Formal evaluation of teaching efforts Annual review of student progress by a committee of faculty Secure professional-level position in a relevant area such as academia, industry, government, or health care Prerequisite Undergraduate preparation should include emphasis in chemistry and biology, food science, nutritional science, or dietetics. General Requirements Students must choose a thesis or non-thesis option for the M.S. degree. There are specific minimum coursework requirements for each degree and option. Your Program of Study (POS) Committee may determine you need additional coursework. Each student is required to consult with his or her major professor every term prior to registration for course work. Coursework for the degree program requires approval of the POS committee, the Food Science and Technology director of graduate education (DOGE), and the ISU Graduate College, as filed with the program of study (POS) plan. Program of Study (POS) Committee The Program of Study Committee is chosen by the graduate student and the major professor and is approved by the director of graduate education (DOGE). This committee directs the course of the student’s degree program. Master’s Thesis Option POS Committee The thesis option master’s POS committee consists of at least three members, all of whom must be members of the graduate faculty. Two members must be from the major or program, including the major professor. The committee must include members from different majors or different departments so as to ensure diversity of perspectives. One member of the committee must be from outside of the Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition (FSHN) to provide perspective and to serve as an advocate, if necessary, for the masters student. A term member of the graduate faculty may participate in the direction of a student’s masters research as a co-major professor if a member of the Food Science and Technology graduate faculty serves as the other co-major professor and jointly accepts responsibility for the direction of a program of study. Master’s Non-Thesis Option POS Committee Admission Students must apply for admission to the non-thesis Master of Science program as graduate students to the Food Science and Technology program. The graduate admissions committee will evaluate the academic credentials of applicants. The applicant will be advised if they are academically qualified for our program, but full admission will not be given until a major professor is identified. No research assistantship commitment need be made for non-thesis option M.S. students. POS Committee A minimum of four committee members are required. Since the non-thesis option trains the student in the three major areas of food science and technology, food microbiology, food chemistry, and food engineering/processing, at least one faculty on the POS Committee must represent each of the three areas. Additionally, the POS Committee must include a faculty member from outside the Food Science and Technology program, per ISU Graduate College regulations. Doctoral POS Committee The POS Committee for the Food Science and Technology doctoral program consists of at least five members of the graduate faculty. At least three members must be from within food science and technology and must include the major professor. The committee must include members from different majors or different departments so as to ensure diversity of perspectives. One member of the committee must be from outside of the FSHN department to provide perspective and serves as an advocate, if necessary, for the doctoral student. A term member of the graduate faculty may participate in the direction of a student’s dissertation research as a co-major professor if a member of the Food Science and Technology graduate faculty serves as the other co-major professor and jointly accepts responsibility for direction of the dissertation. Minor in Food Science and Technology Food Science and Technology Graduate Minor Curriculum 9 to 15 credits required 9 credits of graduate level food science course work as approved by the POSC, with a maximum of 3 credits at the 400 level. In addition, students without a background in food chemistry, food engineering/processing, and/or food microbiology are required to take FSHN 511 and two 600-level courses in two different competency areas. Related Minors Students pursuing a doctorate in food science and technology may choose minors from other fields including anthropology, chemistry, biochemistry, economics, education, journalism, microbiology, psychology, physiology, sociology, statistics, toxicology, or other related fields. Need More Information? Brenda Emery 220 Mackay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6442 fshngraduate@iastate.edu Graduate Programs Food Science and Technology Curriculum Application and Admission Research Areas Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences Curriculum Application and admission Student Learning Outcomes Diet and Exercise Program Overview Application and Admission Graduate Study Research Areas Student Learning Outcomes Food Safety and Defense Graduate Certificate Online Program Master of Family and Consumer Sciences in Dietetics Master of Professional Practice in Dietetics Student Spotlight: Mark Bollom “If you understand how [food] is assembled, you can understand a little more about why it’s having the impact that it does on our health.” View Career Connections: Natalie McMillan Major: Culinary food science Organization: Healthy Harvest of North Iowa View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition 2312 Food Sciences Building 536 Farm House Lane Ames, IA 50011-1061 515-294-3011 Undergraduate Advising Office 220 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-4436 fshninfo@iastate.edu Quick Links College of Agriculture and Life Sciences iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility