Skip to content Skip to navigation Stanford University Search form Research Education Policy People Centers News Events Research Education Policy People Centers News Events Search form New White Paper | Energy Sanctions Roadmap: Recommendations for Sanctions against the Russian Federation. Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies The Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Stanford’s hub for nonpartisan, interdisciplinary research, teaching and policy impact in international affairs. Assessing Russia's Invasion of Ukraine FSI scholars offer expert analysis and commentary on the Ukraine-Russia crisis. See all analysis Media advisory Featured Stories Special Video Address by President Volodymyr Zelenskyy The President of Ukraine spoke to Stanford students and answered questions in a live video event on May 27, 2022. Watch the Livestream Watch the Livestream Barack Obama Calls for More Action to Counter Disinformation The former president was the keynote speaker at a symposium on disinformation and its effects on democracy hosted by the Stanford Cyber Policy Center and Obama Foundation. BARACK OBAMA BARACK OBAMA A History of Unity: A Look at FSI’s Special Relationship with Ukraine FSI's long history of building friendships and creating engagement with Ukrainian scholars and civil leaders is more important now than it's ever been. Ukraine and FSI Ukraine and FSI Recent Videos Strengthening Sanctions Against the Russian Federation Keynote from Barack Obama on the to Challenges to Democracy in the Digital Information Realm Alex Stamos and Matthew Masterson Testify on Ensuring Accurate and Secure Elections Current Opportunities China Program Coordinator The Shorenstein APARC Center is seeking a China Program Coordinator to join our team in exploring the complex world of academic research and public policy by providing administrative and program support. Apply Apply CDDRL Student Opportunities The Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law (CDDRL) is hiring for multiple positions in communications, research and programming. See the full listings at the link below. Student Jobs Student Jobs Research Assistant at CISAC Work with Professor Scott Sagan on international security issues such as nuclear nonproliferation and the laws of armed conflict. One year fixed-term position with the potential for extension. CISAC Reasearch Assistant CISAC Reasearch Assistant Alumni Spotlight Master’s Program Alumni and Students Connect to Withdraw Civilians from Afghanistan Chelsea Berkey and other Master's in International Policy alumni have gone to extraordinary lengths to help extract at-risk Afghan civilians before and after the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan. Afghan Withdrawal Afghan Withdrawal CDDRL Honors Graduate Lina Hidalgo Named to Time100 Next List Hidalgo has become a prominent voice in Texas politics, and gained recognition for her leadership during the COVID-19 crisis and the 2020 elections. Alex Stamos of the Internet Observatory was also named to the list. Time100 Next Time100 Next CISAC Alumni Selected for Senior Roles in Biden Administration The CISAC Honors Program provides an opportunity for Stanford seniors of all majors who have strong academic records and interest in international security to receive honors in International Security Studies. Alumni in Administration Alumni in Administration From CISAC Classrooms to the Halls of Congress Geo Saba, legislative director for Congressman Ro Khanna, credits his time as a CISAC Honors student for enabling him to make a policy impact with his career. Halls of Congress Halls of Congress Research FSI is a hub for Stanford scholars who want to work across disciplines on research that has international impact. Our topics include governance, security, global health, energy and international development. Research Research Teaching Our faculty teach more than 65 classes a year, and mentor students through guided research. FSI is also home to the Ford Dorsey Master's in International Policy, a two-year master's degree. Teaching Teaching Policy Our work provides context for decision-making in Washington, Geneva, Beijing and beyond. FSI's International Policy Lab helps ensure that our faculty's research has real-world impact. Policy Policy Join our mailing list Learn about FSI scholars in the news, the latest research from our scholars, and more. Sign Up Now Featured Scholars FSI is home to approximately 150 researchers, including 49 appointed faculty. Our scholars include world-renowned political theorists, physicians, former ambassadors, nuclear physicists and economists. Clayborne Carson MLK, Jr. Centennial Professor Emeritus close https://cddrl.fsi.stanford.edu/news/welcoming-dr-clayborne-carson-cddrl Clayborne Carson MLK, Jr. Centennial Professor Emeritus Founder of the Martin Luther King, Jr., Research and Education Institute at Stanford University Larry Diamond Mosbacher Senior Fellow in Global Democracy close https://fsi.stanford.edu/people/larry_diamond Larry Diamond Mosbacher Senior Fellow in Global Democracy Recent Publication Ill Winds: Saving Democracy from Russian Rage, Chinese Ambition, and American Complacency Beatriz Magaloni FSI Senior Fellow close https://fsi.stanford.edu/people/beatriz_magaloni Beatriz Magaloni FSI Senior Fellow Director, Poverty, Violence and and Governance Laboratory Recent Publication Killing in the Slums: Social Order, Criminal Governance and Police Violence in Rio de Janeiro Kathryn Stoner FSI Senior Fellow close https://fsi.stanford.edu/people/kathryn_stoner Kathryn Stoner FSI Senior Fellow Mosbacher Director, CDDRL Recent Publication Russia Resurrected: Its Power and Purpose in A New Global Order All FSI Faculty Research at FSI Research at FSI Center on China's Economy and Institutions Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law Center on Food Security and the Environment Center for International Security and Cooperation Cyber Policy Center The Europe Center Stanford Health Policy Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center Stanford Center at Peking University Program on Energy & Sustainable Development Educational Research Programs Research at FSI Our interdisciplinary research centers and programs serve as the foundation for all the scholarly work that FSI produces. They enable faculty from a broad variety of backgrounds to take "deep dives" into complex challenges, producing the rigorous research that FSI is known for. Our Research Topics: Governance Security Global Health Energy & Environment International Development Regional Expertise Center on China's Economy and Institutions The Stanford Center on China's Economy and Institutions is Stanford’s home for empirical, multidisciplinary research on China’s economy. We aim to foster path-breaking research, create transformative student experiences, and advance public understanding of China’s economy and its impact on the world. Visit SCCEI Homepage feature Rural Education Action Program Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law The Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law bridges the worlds of scholarship, policy and practice to understand and advance the conditions for just, democratic, and sustainable development around the world. Visit CDDRL Homepage research American Democracy in Comparative Perspective research Program on Poverty and Governance Center on Food Security and the Environment The Center on Food Security and the Environment addresses critical global issues of hunger, poverty and environmental degradation. Visit FSE Homepage research Combining satellite imagery and machine learning to predict poverty research Poverty alleviation through sustainable palm oil production Center for International Security and Cooperation The Center for International Security and Cooperation (CISAC) is Stanford University’s hub for researchers tackling some of the world's most pressing security and international cooperation issues. Visit CISAC Homepage research Cyber Policy and Security research Nuclear Risk and Cooperation Cyber Policy Center The Cyber Policy Center at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies is Stanford University's premier center for the interdisciplinary study of issues at the nexus of technology, governance and public policy. VISIT CYBER POLICY CENTER HOMEPAGE news A Spotlight on Pseudo-Think Tanks and Personas from the Stanford Internet Observatory publication Securing American Elections White Paper The Europe Center The Europe Center at Stanford University provides an interdisciplinary platform for scholarship on the histories, cultures, institutions, and people of Europe. Visit TEC homepage research European Security Initiative research Immigration and Integration Project Stanford Health Policy Stanford Health Policy studies critical global health problems with the goal of understanding how policies, programs and interventions can improve health. Visit SHP Homepage research Center on the Demography and Economics of Health and Aging research Center for Policy, Outcomes and Prevention Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center Shorenstein APARC is focused on the interdisciplinary study of contemporary Asia. Our research spans the realms of scholarship, business, and government. Visit APARC Homepage research Asia Health Policy Program Stanford Center at Peking University SCPKU is Stanford's headquarters for faculty and students engaged in research, teaching, training and outreach activities in China. Visit SCPKU Homepage feature Stanford's bridge across the Pacific feature Highly Immersive Classroom Program on Energy & Sustainable Development PESD is an international, interdisciplinary program that draws on the fields of economics, political science, law, and management to investigate how real energy markets work. Visit PESD Homepage feature Climate Change Policy Educational Research Programs FSI's research units include programs with an instructional component: the Stanford Program on International and Cross-Cultural Education (SPICE) is committed to making FSI scholarship on global issues accessible to K–12 and community college educators and students; the Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies is the only program in the world that focuses exclusively on advanced Japanese language training. Stanford Program on International & Cross-Cultural Education Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies Our Address Encina Hall 616 Jane Stanford Way Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-6055 Navigate Research Education Policy People Centers News Events About Follow Us General inquiries 650-723-4581 Mail Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram Instagram Support Us Learn more about how your support makes a difference or make a gift now Make a gift Top Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.