Skip to content Skip to navigation Stanford University Search form Research Education Policy People Centers News Events Research Education Policy People Centers News Events Search form New White Paper | Energy Sanctions Roadmap: Recommendations for Sanctions against the Russian Federation. Michael A. McFaul All FSI People Institute Faculty and Researchers Michael A. McFaul, PhD Director, Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Ken Olivier and Angela Nomellini Professor of International Studies, Department of Political Science Peter and Helen Bing Senior Fellow, Hoover Institution Encina Hall 616 Jane Stanford Way Stanford, CA 94305-6055 fsi-communications@stanford.edu Download CV For Journalists Twitter Website Publications Research In the News Biography Michael McFaul is Director at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, the Ken Olivier and Angela Nomellini Professor of International Studies in the Department of Political Science, and the Peter and Helen Bing Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution. He joined the Stanford faculty in 1995. Dr. McFaul also is as an International Affairs Analyst for NBC News and a columnist for The Washington Post. He served for five years in the Obama administration, first as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russian and Eurasian Affairs at the National Security Council at the White House (2009-2012), and then as U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation (2012-2014). He has authored several books, most recently the New York Times bestseller From Cold War to Hot Peace: An American Ambassador in Putin’s Russia. Earlier books include Advancing Democracy Abroad: Why We Should, How We Can; Transitions To Democracy: A Comparative Perspective (eds. with Kathryn Stoner); Power and Purpose: American Policy toward Russia after the Cold War (with James Goldgeier); and Russia’s Unfinished Revolution: Political Change from Gorbachev to Putin. His current research interests include American foreign policy, great power relations, and the relationship between democracy and development. Dr. McFaul was born and raised in Montana. He received his B.A. in International Relations and Slavic Languages and his M.A. in Soviet and East European Studies from Stanford University in 1986. As a Rhodes Scholar, he completed his D. Phil. in International Relations at Oxford University in 1991. He is currently writing a book on great power relations in the 21st century. Publications Publication Type Most Recent Books Commentary Journal Articles Policy Briefs Testimonies White Papers Working Papers Most RecentBooksCommentaryJournal ArticlesPolicy BriefsTestimoniesWhite PapersWorking Papers Policy Briefs May 2022 Policy Roundup: May 2022 Author(s) Clifton B. Parker Policy Roundup: May 2022 Policy Briefs April 2022 Policy Roundup: April 2022 Author(s) Clifton B. Parker Policy Roundup: April 2022 Policy Briefs March 2022 Policy Roundup: March 2022 Author(s) Ari Chasnoff Policy Roundup: March 2022 More Publications Back To Top Current research Global Populisms A new project examining the global surge in populist movements and what it means for established democratic rules and institutions. Read More Back To Top In The News News Type All Commentary News AllCommentaryNews News Barack Obama Addresses the Intersection of Online Disinformation, Regulation and Democracy at Stanford Event At a conference hosted by the Cyber Policy Center and Obama Foundation, former U.S. President Barack Obama delivered the keynote address about how information is created and consumed, and the threat that disinformation poses to democracy. Barack Obama Addresses the Intersection of Online Disinformation, Regulation and Democracy at Stanford Event News A History of Unity: A Look at FSI’s Special Relationship with Ukraine Since 2005, the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies has cultivated rich academic ties and friendships with Ukrainian scholars and civic leaders as part of our mission to support democracy and development domestically and abroad. A History of Unity: A Look at FSI’s Special Relationship with Ukraine News State Media, Social Media, and the Conflict in Ukraine: What Should the Platforms Do? On March 4th, Cyber Policy Center experts and experts in industry gathered to discuss the propaganda battles related to the conflict already in full force. State Media, Social Media, and the Conflict in Ukraine: What Should the Platforms Do? More News Back To Top Multimedia World Class · A Democracy Activist Explains Georgia's Current Political Crisis and Turbulent History All people Back To Top Our Address Encina Hall 616 Jane Stanford Way Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-6055 Navigate Research Education Policy People Centers News Events About Follow Us General inquiries 650-723-4581 Mail Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram Instagram Support Us Learn more about how your support makes a difference or make a gift now Make a gift Top Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.