Skip to content Skip to navigation Stanford University Search form Research Education Policy People Centers News Events Research Education Policy People Centers News Events Search form New White Paper | Energy Sanctions Roadmap: Recommendations for Sanctions against the Russian Federation. All FSI News News September 9, 2021 ‘Everything is Possible in Ukraine’: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy Addresses Stanford Community During Historic Visit President Zelenskyy outlined the steps his administration is undertaking to bring increased digitization to Ukraine, curb corruption and create more equitable access to public services for more Ukrainians. Melissa Morgan Rod Searcey In 2015, Volodymyr Zelenskyy was at the height of a successful career as an entertainer. Though trained as a lawyer at the Kryvyi Rih Institute of Economics in Eastern Ukraine, the then 37 year old Zelenskyy was a successful comedian and public personality. As the star of the popular TV show, Servant of the People, he played a local history teacher who inadvertently becomes the president of Ukraine following a viral video rant about corruption. No one watching comedic President Zelenskyy then could have possibly imagined the real-life plot twist that would follow. In an incredible act of life imitating art, in April 2019, Volodymyr Zelenskyy once again stood on stage in front of a cheering crowd, but this time as the actual president of Ukraine. He won in a landslide election against incumbent president Petro Poroshenko on a platform of systemic change and progress using an almost exclusively virtual campaign. Speaking from his headquarters on election night, he affirmed the exuberance and hope of his supporters: “I can say as a citizen of Ukraine to all countries of the post-Soviet Union: Look at us — everything is possible.” This same message shaped the theme of President Zelenskyy’s remarks at his historic address from the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies (FSI) at Stanford University on September 2. The first Ukrainian president to ever visit California, President Zelenskyy, First Lady Olena Zelenska and their delegation joined a group of FSI faculty members led by FSI Director Michael McFaul at an outdoor event held in the Encina Courtyard. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine is greeted by FSI Director Michael McFaul, Anna Grzymala-Busse, Francis Fukuyama, Kathryn Stoner, Steven Pifer, Markos Kounalakis and Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis. Photo by: Melissa Morgan President Volodymyr Zelenskyy spoke about how innovation and technology can help strengthen democracy in Ukraine. Photo by: The Office of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy The Lieutenant Governor of California, Eleni Kounalakis and her husband Markos Kounalakis were among the dignitaries who welcomed President Zelenskyy to California. Photo by: Melissa Morgan Due to ongoing COVID-19 precautions, President Zelenskyy's address was given outside to an audience gathered in the Encinca Courtyard at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies. Photo by: The Office of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine and Michael McFaul share remarks together onstage at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies. Photo by: The Office of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine In his remarks, Zelenskyy drew inspiration from Steve Jobs’ famous "How to Live Before You Die" commencement address given at Stanford in 2005. "This is one of the most famous speeches ever given at Stanford,” he said. “It's about believing in dreams and overcoming the impossible. This is the same as my story. I am just a common guy from a common family from a common industrial town in Eastern Ukraine. Yet here I am today at Stanford, because everything is possible." He continued, “It is the same for Ukraine. Many people look at us and think that it will be impossible to achieve the goals we hope for. But we know that our critics are wrong. The people of our country love democracy and freedom and will not let threats take those things away. We know that anything is possible." Looking to the future, Zelenskyy outlined the steps his administration is undertaking to bring increased digitization to Ukraine. These efforts include launching fully electronic passports, moving business and legal services online and expanding the scope of e-goverance. The hope is that this meld of new technology will help curb corruption while simultaneously creating more equitable opportunities and better access to public services for more Ukranians. Speaking on the ambitious scope of these plans, the president acknowledged, “There will be resistance to the changes and innovations that we are going to make.” Nonetheless, he remains committed to the work ahead of strengthening democratic institutions in Ukraine and building on the progress that has already been made. “We do not have a ‘Ukrainian Dream,’ yet,” he said. “But we have a ‘Ukrainian Goal’ and a ‘Ukrainian Mission’ to make the future we want for our country.” An edited recording of his remarks is below. Keeping with Stanford tradition, Zelenskyy took questions from the audience after his prepared remarks. A variety of students and Stanford community members from Russia, Burma, Belarus and beyond had the opportunity to engage the president on a range of issues including U.S.-Ukraine relations, armament sales abroad and concerns over Russian aggression in Crimea and influence Eastern Ukraine. Of particular meaning was Zelensky’s affirmation and support for the democratic movement in Belarus led by Svaitlana Tsikhanouskaya, whom FSI hosted earlier this summer at a faculty roundtable. Students and faculty alike were appreciative of the president’s candor and good nature in addressing difficult topics. Following the formal remarks, President Zelenskyy and First Lady Zelenska had an opportunity to meet with Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne in the Memorial Church Courtyard. Prior to leaving, the First Lady also sat down with leaders and students from Stanford's Office of Accessible Education (OAE), an area of interest she would like to support and better develop in Ukraine. For FSI, the president’s visit was another affirmation of the special connection between Ukraine and the Stanford community. Since 2016, the Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law has hosted the Ukrainian Emerging Leaders Program, which provides a 10-month academic training fellowship in support of mid-career practitioners working actively as policy-makers, legal professionals, entrepreneurs and leaders of civil society organizations in Ukraine. Speaking to this shared history in his opening introductions, FSI Director Michael McFaul emphasized the crucial need for ongoing support and intellectual investment into Ukraine. “The fight for democracy and independence in Ukraine is one of the most important causes in the world today,” he affirmed. “Not just for Ukrainians, but for all who cherish the ideals of democracy, liberty and sovereignty.” To President Zelenskyy, McFaul extended a future invitation: “You are always welcome back, either as president or in retirement as a professor.” “With the classes you offer, I will think about it,” Zelenskyy replied with a smile. Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne met President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine and First Lady Olena Zelenska outside the Stanford Memorial Church. Photo by: Rod Searcey President Zelenskyy and the First Lady walk with Michael McFaul to the Memorial Church courtyard on Stanford's campus. Photo by: Rod Searcey FSI Director Michael McFaul bids President Zelenskyy farewell. Photo by: Rod Searcey A Stanford student asks a question to President Zelenskyy during the Q&A session the event. Photo by: Rod Searcey First Lady of Ukraine Olena Zelenska met with leaders and students from the Office of Accessible Education (OAE) to learn how to incorporate accessibility practices into Ukrainian society. Photo by: Rod Searcey read more News Belarusian Leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya Meets with Stanford Scholars for Roundtable on Democracy in Belarus Democratic leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya and her delegation joined an interdisciplinary panel of Stanford scholars and members of the Belarusian community to discuss the future of democracy in Belarus. Belarusian Leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya Meets with Stanford Scholars for Roundtable on Democracy in Belarus Commentary Kremlin saber-rattling in Ukraine: How the West should react Europe and the United States must ensure that Moscow does not underestimate the costs of a military assault. Kremlin saber-rattling in Ukraine: How the West should react Commentary We've seen this movie before [on Ukraine] Volodymyr Zelensky swept to victory in Ukraine’s spring 2019 presidential election because he promised renewed reform and a real fight against corruption. Today, the reality looks quite different. We've seen this movie before [on Ukraine] All FSI News Our Address Encina Hall 616 Jane Stanford Way Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-6055 Navigate Research Education Policy People Centers News Events About Follow Us General inquiries 650-723-4581 Mail Twitter Facebook Youtube Instagram Instagram Support Us Learn more about how your support makes a difference or make a gift now Make a gift Top Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.