Skip to main content Florida State University Search FSU Select Search Type FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Get to Know FSU About Florida State Administration Athletics FSU Facts FSU's Economic Impact Global FSU Land Acknowledgement Map of Campus Visitor Services News & Events Calendar of Events FSU Highlights & Rankings Press Research Initiatives Critical Thinking kNOw MORE FSU Tools & Resources Canvas Distance Learning Information Technology Services Libraries myFSU Service Centers and Help Desks Tutoring Policy & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Info FSU Regulations Police and Safety Policies Public Records Requests Strategic Plan Title IX Business & Employment Departments Directory Doing Business with Florida State Employment FSU Bookstore Human Resources Join Our Seminole Family Admissions Advocate for Florida State Alumni Association Giving to FSU Registrar Seminole Boosters Veterans Initiatives Close Menu Florida State University Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Menu Vires, Artes, Mores Society Alumni Association FSU Foundation FSU Real Estate Foundation Faculty and Staff Gifts Seminole Boosters Student Alumni Association Student Foundation Student Boosters FSU License Plate University Advancement Support FSU A preeminent university in Florida’s capital city, Florida State University has an enduring legacy that continues to offer its students world-class educational and academic experiences at an institution highlighted by superiority in the classroom and beyond. The friendly campus is befitting for an institution that is entrenched in the arts, embracive of the sciences, and emboldened with the idea that as great as it is, it can and will become even greater. Help FSU Students in Need During this trying time, Florida State University is working tirelessly to remove barriers so all FSU students continue to receive the highest quality education. That’s why we’ve created student emergency funds. Give Now Ways to Support FSU Alumni Association Join the FSU Alumni Association to help advance our university’s greatness while enriching the lives of the Seminole family. Learn more about the Alumni Association. FSU Foundation Make a gift to the FSU Foundation to enhance the academic vision and priorities of FSU. Learn more about the FSU Foundation. Real Estate Foundation Gift real estate to the university via the FSU Real Estate Foundation. Learn more about the FSU Real Estate Foundation. Faculty and Staff Gifts Participate in the Faculty and Staff campaign by making a gift or enrolling in payroll deduction. Learn more about the Faculty and Staff Gifts. Seminole Boosters Become a Seminole Booster to enrich the overall educational and athletic experience for over 500 student-athletes. Learn more about the Seminole Boosters. Student Engagement Students can get engaged through the Student Alumni Association, Student Foundation or Seminole Student Boosters. Learn more about the Student Alumni Association, Student Foundation and Student Boosters. FSU License Plate Proudly display an FSU license plate on your vehicle(s). Learn more about the FSU License Plate. University Advancement Learn more about University Advancement at FSU. University Giving Society The Vires, Artes, Mores donor recognition society honors FSU’s top supporters across the university. Learn more about the University Giving Society. Vires, Artes, Mores Society Alumni Association FSU Foundation FSU Real Estate Foundation Faculty and Staff Gifts Seminole Boosters Student Alumni Association Student Foundation Student Boosters FSU License Plate University Advancement © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media