Skip to main content Florida State University Search FSU Select Search Type FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Get to Know FSU About Florida State Administration Athletics FSU Facts FSU's Economic Impact Global FSU Land Acknowledgement Map of Campus Visitor Services News & Events Calendar of Events FSU Highlights & Rankings Press Research Initiatives Critical Thinking kNOw MORE FSU Tools & Resources Canvas Distance Learning Information Technology Services Libraries myFSU Service Centers and Help Desks Tutoring Policy & Safety Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Info FSU Regulations Police and Safety Policies Public Records Requests Strategic Plan Title IX Business & Employment Departments Directory Doing Business with Florida State Employment FSU Bookstore Human Resources Join Our Seminole Family Admissions Advocate for Florida State Alumni Association Giving to FSU Registrar Seminole Boosters Veterans Initiatives Close Menu Florida State University Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Florida State University's Internet Privacy Policy Thank you for visiting the Florida State University website. Your privacy is very important to us. Simply stated, our policy is to collect no personal information about you when you visit our website unless you affirmatively choose to make such information available to us. When you visit our website, our web server automatically recognizes only the Internet domain and IP address from which you accessed our website. This information does not result in the identification of your personal e-mail address or other personal information. In addition, we gather information regarding the volume and timing of access to our website by collecting information on the date, time and website pages accessed by visitors to the website. We do this so we can improve the content of our website and this information is not shared with other organizations. Again, only aggregate information is collected and individual visitors' personal information is not identified. If you choose to share personal information with us — by sending us a message, or filling out an electronic form with personal information — we will use the information only for the purposes you authorized or in support of university sponsored programs. Some of the information may be saved for a designated period of time to comply with Florida's archiving policies, but we will not disclose the information to other third parties or government agencies, unless required to do so by state or federal law or in support of university sponsored programs. If we are required to disclose information about you by law, we will make every effort to notify you of the disclosure in advance. Many pages on this site use Google Analytics (Google Privacy Policy). If you have other questions about our privacy policies, or have ideas about improving our policies, please feel free to e-mail us at its-help@fsu.edu, or you can reach us by telephone at 850-644-4357. E-mail Privacy Policy Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public-records request, do not send electronic mail to Florida State University. Instead, make contact by phone or in writing. © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media