Log In Crowdfunding Log In Past Projects Crowdfunding Log In Support for the Iowa State Adventure Previous Next The Division of Student Affairs Make a Gift $25 $50 $100 $250 $500 Description Donor Wall Description Description Donor Wall Giving Tuesday: Support for the Iowa State Adventure Iowa State University students are discovering new passions, making friends from all over the world, and growing in a creative and innovative environment that challenges and supports them. Their time at Iowa State is expected to be fun and exciting, but sometimes the college experience can also be overwhelming. Fortunately, Iowa State students have the Division of Student Affairs. Student Affairs staff care about students’ physical and mental health, personal safety and wellbeing. That's why they have a broad set of resources, services and staff dedicated to helping students be their best; whether they need to speak with a professional, are experiencing food insecurity, looking for ways to have fun or be well on campus, or simply need to connect with others who may be experiencing similar struggles. College can be  filled with many highs and some lows. Student Affairs helps guide students out of those lows and back into their adventure. With a gift to any of these areas on Giving Tuesday, you can give a student the support they need to improve their health and wellbeing.   National Pan-Hellenic Council Plaza National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is a collaborative organization of nine historically African American, international Greek letter fraternities and sororities known as the Divine Nine. A plaza promoting the historically Black fraternities and sororities that are part of the NPHC is being constructed at Iowa State near the Memorial Union. The plaza will serve as a space to honor the many contributions and deep impact of the NPHC fraternities and sororities at Iowa State, nationally and worldwide. Memorial Union Known as “the living room of your Iowa State home,” the Memorial Union (MU) is a hub of activity and connection on campus. The MU houses ballrooms and meeting rooms for events large and small, even weddings! Students and community members come together to grab a bite to eat, go bowling, attend a concert or a comedy performance, and even paint their own pottery. The MU manages Iowa State's 900+ student organizations and runs leadership conferences and alternative break trips for students as well. Multicultural Student Affairs The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs (MSA) supports and empowers Iowa State University's students who self-identify as African American, Asian, Pacific Islander, Desi American, Latinx, Native American/Alaskan Native and/or Multiracial and advocates for their holistic development across the University. SHOP-ISU Food Pantry 2021 marks the 10-year anniversary of the formation of the on-campus food pantry, SHOP (Students Helping Our Peers)! SHOP provides needed assistance to members of the ISU community. Your gift will help SHOP expand their services, provide more food options, and implement new technology and additional infrastructural improvements. Student Counseling Services Student Counseling Services (SCS) provides clinical and campus-based services to help students achieve their educational and personal goals. SCS supports the holistic well-being of every Iowa State student and promotes a healthy and inclusive community through clinical services, outreach, consultation, crisis intervention and collaboration with campus partners. Thielen Student Health Center Thielen Student Health Center is a full-service medical clinic on campus, staffed with physicians, advanced registered nurse practitioners and nurses. Their team is available to care for Iowa State students’ primary health care needs, offering a full range of medical services. The Division of Student Affairs Integral to the rich and vibrant Iowa State University experience, Student Affairs challenges and empowers students to succeed as productive citizens and leaders in a diverse community. By recognizing the uniqueness of each student, they support their overall growth and development through leadership and involvement opportunities, rich and meaningful co-curricular activities, and global engagement experiences. They also work to remain accessible and responsive to students and to minimize barriers that inhibit effective learning. Student Affairs welcomes and engages all students, and they make sure Cyclones feel safe anywhere at Iowa State University. Interested in learning more about Student Affairs? You can learn more about the division and dive deep into the Support for Your Adventure campaign. You can contribute by clicking on the “Make a Gift” button at the top of this page. If you have questions or would like to discuss your gift with an ISU Foundation staff member, please email fundisu@foundation.iastate.edu or call 920-279-6189. Checks can be made payable to ISU Foundation noting the fund of your choice in the memo line and mailed to: ISU Foundation PO Box 2230 Ames, IA 50010 Designate your gift to a Fund National Pan-Hellenic Council Plaza Memorial Union Multicultural Student Affairs SHOP-ISU Food Pantry Student Counseling Services Thielen Student Health Center The Division of Student Affairs Our Crowdfunding Groups Iowa State University Foundation Main Past Projects Iowa State University Foundation Crowdfunding FAQ About FundISU Privacy Policy Apply ISU Foundation Contact Us Past Projects Powered by ScaleFunder Terms Privacy Policy © 2022 Iowa State University Foundation, All Rights Reserved