Skip to main content Yale Center for International and Professional Experience Career Strategy Fellowships Study Abroad Summer Session SEARCH FELLOWSHIPS Fellowships Fellowships FAQ Search for Fellowships Light Fellowship Fulbright Grants Graduate Study in the UK and Ireland External Awards Fellowships in the News Fellowships and Funding Leave of Absence (LOA) Policies Applying Fellowships Calendar Getting Started Previous winners How to Apply Online Presentations & Workshops Fellowship Policies Institutional Review Board (IRB) Sample Timelines Faculty, Staff & Recommenders Information for Faculty Advising Students Writing Letters Fellowship Committees Administering Fellowships Other Funding International Study Award (ISA) Summer Experience Award (SEA) Financial Aid Alternative Funding Options Funding for Study Abroad Contact CIPE Fellowships Staff Make an Appointment Graduate Fellowship Affiliates Contact Fellowships Newsletter Review & Subscription Enter your keywords Last updated: 05/25/2022 - 9:55am Do something amazing. Education at Yale takes place inside classroom, library, laboratory, and far beyond. Yale and outside funding options can help make it possible to pursue something amazing which you might not be able to do otherwise. Find support for research, study abroad, public service, unpaid internships, and self-designed projects, in New Haven and around the globe. Postgraduate fellowships support independent projects, graduate study, and much more. Search Fellowships Leave of Absence Policies Fellowship & funding eligibility while on a Leave of Absence Understand how a Leave of Absence may impact your eligibility for National/External Awards or Yale Fellowships. View responses to your most frequently asked questions (FAQ). Learn More Applying Exploring options and identifying opportunities Before you begin writing an application, you will need to explore your options and identify the opportunity you might like to pursue. This will involve asking yourself some questions, gathering information, and talking with advisers and mentors. Learn More Advising Fellowship Programs advisers are available Learn how to book a one-on-one appointment with a Fellowships adviser, and help us make the most of the time available. Advising appointments are available throughout the calendar year. We look forward to talking with you. Learn More Calendar & Upcoming Workshops & Info Sessions See what we're up to! Learn more Fellowships in the News Read about other Yalies who've won awards. Learn more Online Presentations & Workshops Check out some of our most popular info sessions, workshops, student panels, and slide shows! Learn more Fellowships and Funding Flyer Series Opportunities of interest...... Learn more The Ongoing COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Situation Sponsored outbound international travel for Yale College students is governed by the Yale College Travel Policy. Further restrictions may be imposed at any time if public health conditions require them. Proof of vaccination does not override Yale's Travel Policy, and note that it is the responsibility of the traveler to investigate and keep updated on country-specific requirements and/or restrictions that may hinder or make impossible travel to that location regardless of Yale's Travel Policy. Yale has provided Travel Guidelines for all faculty, staff, and students. Continuously updated COVID-19 information also can be found on Yale's COVID-19 website. Please see the Fellowships and Funding FAQ and the Yale College Travel Policy for further details about summer 2022. Yale College Travel Policy Search this Site 55 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Fl. New Haven, CT 06510 (203) 432-8685 Office hours: Monday through Friday, from 8:30am to 5pm Facebook Instagram Twitter | Contact Calendar Main Navigation Fellowships Applying Faculty, Staff & Recommenders Other Funding Contact Contact Us Name * Email * Subject * - Select -General QuestionsInternational Study Award (ISA)Student Grants Database IssuesAlum Advising RequestWebsite Questions Message * About CIPE The Yale Center for International and Professional Experience is a group of offices that work together, and with other academic advisers on campus, to support students throughout their four years at Yale as they make decisions about their academic plans and explore career options. Career Strategy Fellowships and Funding Study Abroad Summer Session ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. | Accessibility | Privacy Log in