Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Agricultural Sciences » Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Undergraduate On Campus - Corvallis Online - Ecampus F&W Minor Marine Minor Curricula & Course Offerings Internships Student Stories VIEW Fellowship How to Apply Get Connected Hatfield Marine Science Center Programs International Experiences Undergraduate Scholarships Frequently Asked Questions FLOCK - Field and Lab Ornithology Collaboratory Graduate Fisheries or Wildlife Management Graduate Certificate PSM in Fisheries & Wildlife Administration MS in Fisheries or Wildlife PhD in Fisheries or Wildlife How to Apply Future and Current Grad FAQ Graduate Faculty Guide for Graduate Students and Faculty FW Graduate Student Association RAFWE Careers Research & Extension Research Avian Conservation & Management Education & Human Dimensions Fish Conservation & Management Habitat Restoration & Conservation Ecology Marine Ecology Wildlife Conservation & Management Extension Fisheries Extension Wildlife About Advising Structure Alumni & News Make a Gift Seminars and Events 150 Species Sustained Directory Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Research Support Advisors Graduate Students Staff IT Support Locations Employee Resources Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Undergraduate On Campus - Corvallis Online - Ecampus F&W Minor Marine Minor Curricula & Course Offerings Internships Student Stories VIEW Fellowship How to Apply Get Connected Hatfield Marine Science Center Programs International Experiences Undergraduate Scholarships Frequently Asked Questions FLOCK - Field and Lab Ornithology Collaboratory Graduate Fisheries or Wildlife Management Graduate Certificate PSM in Fisheries & Wildlife Administration MS in Fisheries or Wildlife PhD in Fisheries or Wildlife How to Apply Future and Current Grad FAQ Graduate Faculty Guide for Graduate Students and Faculty FW Graduate Student Association RAFWE Careers Research & Extension Research Avian Conservation & Management Education & Human Dimensions Fish Conservation & Management Habitat Restoration & Conservation Ecology Marine Ecology Wildlife Conservation & Management Extension Fisheries Extension Wildlife About Advising Structure Alumni & News Make a Gift Seminars and Events 150 Species Sustained Directory Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Research Support Advisors Graduate Students Staff IT Support Locations Employee Resources You can find up to date information and a list of resources at OSU's COVID-19 page. We are the Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences Read more about our name change. Curricula & Course Offerings Student Stories Make a Gift Seminars and Events Oregon State’s fisheries and wildlife online program earns prestigious national award Our undergraduate Ecampus program has won the Online Learning Consortium’s prestigious John R. Bourne Outstanding Online Program Award. “We are extremely proud of our program and our partnership with OSU’s Ecampus; it’s fantastic to have our collective hard work acknowledged by such a great organization as the Online Learning Consortium,” said Bruce Dugger, professor and associate head of the fisheries and wildlife department. Thank you to the OLC and to our students, faculty, instructors, and advisors that help make this program as wonderful and as successful as it is. It's been an amazing ten years of our distance learning program. We can't wait to see what the next ten will bring! Read more about the award on the Ecampus website. Get a Bachelor of Science Degree in Fisheries and Wildlife Sciences Our undergraduates are making a difference by learning about and putting into practice the conservation of biodiversity, management of fish and wildlife, and protection of terrestrial, aquatic, and marine habitats through a degree in Fisheries and Wildlife Sciences. Learn about Graduate Programs We educate our students to think critically and evaluate problems from a strong background in basic and applied science, fundamental ecological principles, and consideration of social influences on conservation. We strive to help our students succeed through a rich program of field and laboratory coursework and personal advising. Help with Wildlife, Fish, and Fisheries Living in Oregon means sometimes interacting with the state's abundant wildlife. OSU Extension - Department of Fisheries and Wildlife provides education programs, products, and knowledge related to conservation and management of Oregon’s fisheries and wildlife species and their habitats. Wildlife Extension provides information via presentations within programs such as Master Gardener training, via published products, and other programming. Fisheries Extension provides the public with information on fish, fisheries, aquatic habitat and watershed related issues in the State of Oregon and the Pacific Northwest. What should you do if you see a sick or injured animal? Call Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (1-800-720-ODFW), Oregon State Police or a licensed wildlife rehabilitator before picking up or moving any wildlife. More information and help can be found through the following resources: Human-Wildlife Interaction Hunting and Fishing Regulations (ODFW) Ask an Expert (Extension) Our Fisheries and Wildlife Experts Environmental Leadership for Youth (ELY) The ELY Program is led by OSU Fisheries and Wildlife Department in partnership with the 4-H Outreach Leadership Institute and local non-profits with an emphasis on watershed stewardship and natural resources careers. The ELY Program is designed for underserved high school youth in the Willamette Valley while increasing the diversity, equity and inclusion capacity of local environmental non-profits. Learn more at the ELY website. VIDEO: Discover the Willamette Camp 2018 Palau Ridges-to-Reefs Join a group of Oregon State and Palauan students, and our very own Scott Heppell, as they take us through two weeks of exploration of natural resources on small islands, and how both communities and ecosystems can be resilient with the right management approaches. FW Events Calendar In the News On the Wing: The East End's Most Controversial Bird Susan Haig, a professor of wildlife ecology at Oregon State University, has been studying the plover for decades. She says the presence of plovers indicate the quality of a beach. If they're present, that's a good sign. Moles, voles and gophers dig the garden Spring brings buds and blooms, but it also brings moles, voles and gophers. The small mammals take gardeners to their knees to peer down tunnels, set traps and toss in everything from kitty litter to gum. They wage war against the crit... Five FWCS Students Named Semi-Finalists for 22-23 Fulbright Program Five of the fifteen Oregon State University students and recent graduates that have been announced as semi-finalists for the 2022-2023 Fulbright U.S. Student Program are from Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences. OPB Interview: Tide gates come with ecological costs Tide gates control water movement in rivers, which allows for more dry land and agriculture. But, these gates also obstruct the natural flow of water. Guillermo Giannico is a prof... Study yields insights into the ecology of fishing jaguars, including rare social interactions Fish and aquatic reptiles dominated the diet of the jaguars in a remote wetland area of Brazil, representing the first population of jaguars known to feed minimally on mammals. In addition, motion-triggered video cameras showed jaguars... Faculty in the Department of Fisheries and Wildlife are currently conducting research on a diverse array of topics in North America, as well as internationally. Want to see where? Contact Info College of Agricultural Sciences Oregon State University Corvallis, Oregon 97331 For questions or feedback about our college or website, please Contact Us. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences 104 Nash Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 Phone: 541-737-4531 Fax: 541-737-3590