Menu Close Menu Skip to content Search for: Search About Us About the FXB Center Our History FXB Leadership & Staff FXB Fellows FXB Faculty Affiliates and Visiting Scholars FXB PhD & DrPH Cohort Events Past Events Our Work Racial Justice Racial Justice Program The Roma Program Present and Past Injustice Rights and Participation of Roma Youth Awareness Raising Making the Public Health Case for Reparations Child Protection Studies on Refugee Youth with UNHCR Children on the Move National Identification Number Project Program on Child Exploitation and Human Trafficking Program on Empowering People with Intellectual Disabilities Gender and Adolescent Agency in India Distress Migration Disaster Resilience and Response Program The Rohingya Puerto Rico All-Cause Mortality Study War and Crisis Studies Syria Data Science Pedagogy Child Protection Certificate Program Intensive Summer Course on Migration and Refugee Studies in Greece Field Education Internship FXB Online Courses Through HarvardX Health and Human Rights Resource Guide Research Partnerships FXB Intersect India Digital Health Net Publications & Press Reports & Policy Briefs 2018 PUBLICATIONS 2017 PUBLICATIONS 2016 PUBLICATIONS 2015 PUBLICATIONS 2014 PUBLICATIONS Press Books Working Papers Partners HHR Journal FXB International Learn About Our Programs & Get Involved See Our Work See Our Work Read About Our Commitment to #Masks4All Communities VISIT OUR BLOG VISIT OUR BLOG Stay Updated With FXB News & Events Explore Our Newsletter Explore Our Newsletter Posts Posted on May 16, 2022 Project N95, Harvard FXB Center Launch Masks for Communities to Distribute 1m Units of Respiratory Protection Working with 23 community groups in 10 states Project N95 and Harvard FXB Center will distribute 1m masks to communities in need. Watch our video here National not-for-profit 501 (c) (3) group Project N95, has partnered with the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University to distribute 1 million respirators in local communities at no cost. Working with 23 community groups in 10 states (see list below), the… Continue reading “Project N95, Harvard FXB Center Launch Masks for Communities to Distribute 1m Units of Respiratory Protection” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on March 8, 2022March 10, 2022 FXB Director of Research Prof. Jacqueline Bhabha Provides Insight on Conflict in Ukraine “In the past two weeks, 2 million Ukrainian citizens and residents have fled the relentless military violence unleashed on their country by Russian President Putin. Images of innocent civilians forced to flee life-threatening attacks on their homes and communities are all too familiar. In less than a decade we have already witnessed massive forced migration from Syria, Myanmar, South Sudan, Afghanistan and Tigray. Again and again, global publics have been… Continue reading “FXB Director of Research Prof. Jacqueline Bhabha Provides Insight on Conflict in Ukraine” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on February 22, 2022February 22, 2022 Remembering Dr. Paul Farmer Photo of Dr. Paul Farmer courtesy of Partners in Health The FXB Center is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Dr. Paul Farmer, a visionary global health leader, anthropologist, physician, and Harvard professor. Paul was a close colleague and dear friend to many in the FXB family and served as editor-in-chief of the FXB Center’s flagship publication, the Health and Human Rights Journal, since 2008. In the first issue… Continue reading “Remembering Dr. Paul Farmer” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:News Posted on January 31, 2022February 14, 2022 FXB Instructor Calls for Protections for Massachusetts’ Immigrant Community FXB Health and Human Rights Research Fellow Dr. Margaret Sullivan recently submitted written testimony in support of Massachusetts Legislature bills S.1579 and H.2418. The bills are known as the Safe Communities Act and aim protect basic rights and ensure every resident can seek health care, protection and emergency assistance without fear of deportation or detention. Sullivan, an instructor and family nurse practitioner at a community health center, shared her immigrant… Continue reading “FXB Instructor Calls for Protections for Massachusetts’ Immigrant Community” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on January 21, 2022February 10, 2022 FXB Center Issues Statement on Public Health Harms of Prison and Jail Investment Today, the FXB Center issued a statement on the public health harms of prison and the carceral system. The statement examines the impact of incarceration on individuals and communities, and offers innovative solutions to break long-term cycles of family instability, homelessness, and underemployment, while fostering intergenerational health and wealth building resources. Read the full statement here. View and download the social media infographics: Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on January 19, 2022January 19, 2022 FXB Center, University of Athens Launch Joint Program on Migration The FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University, in collaboration with the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece, and with the support of the Harvard Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece and the United States, is launching a new program on migration and refugee studies in Greece. This partnership was announced today during a virtual event. This partnership begins with a new three-week intensive, interdisciplinary, summer… Continue reading “FXB Center, University of Athens Launch Joint Program on Migration” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on January 11, 2022January 11, 2022 FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Submits Testimony in Support of Rent Control Today, FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Dr. Jourdyn Lawrence submitted written testimony in support of Massachusetts Legislature bills H.1378/S.886 (An Act Enabling Local Options for Tenant Protections) and H.1440/S.889 (An Act Relative to the Stabilization of Rents and Evictions in Towns and Cities Facing Distress in the Housing Market). The bills aim to establish rent control and increase tenant protections. Lawrence, a social epidemiologist, shared recent research and her… Continue reading “FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Submits Testimony in Support of Rent Control” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on December 29, 2021December 29, 2021 FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University Joins Project N95 and Boston University To Distribute 20,000 Masks to Massachusetts Community Groups Amid Surging COVID-19 Cases In response to surging COVID-19 cases in Massachusetts, the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights joined national non-profit Project N95 and the Boston University School of Public Health to distribute 20,000 protective masks to high-need areas in the state. The community sites receiving the masks include: La Colaborativa of Chelsea, People Incorporated in Fall River, YWCA Southeastern MA – New Bedford, YMCA Southcoast Swansea – Fall River, SEIU509 and… Continue reading “FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University Joins Project N95 and Boston University To Distribute 20,000 Masks to Massachusetts Community Groups Amid Surging COVID-19 Cases” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on December 7, 2021December 7, 2021 New Article Highlights Global Injustices Against Migrant Children In a new article published in partnership with the University of Oxford, the FXB Center’s Director of Research Prof. Jaqueline Bhabha and FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Dr. Vasileia Digidiki draw attention to global injustices against the best interests of migrant children. In their original post, the co-authors state: In today’s world, “migration” and “global justice” rarely go hand in hand. Though the COVID 19 pandemic temporarily equalized access… Continue reading “New Article Highlights Global Injustices Against Migrant Children” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog Posted on November 30, 2021December 7, 2021 New Study Examines Variation in COVID-19 Mortality in the US by Race and Ethnicity and Educational Attainment In a recently released study in JAMA Network Open, Dr. Mary T. Bassett and Dr. Justin Feldman examine “Variation in COVID-19 Mortality in the US by Race and Ethnicity and Educational Attainment.” In the cross-sectional study of 219.1 million adults aged 25 years or older, most racial and ethnic minority populations had higher age-adjusted mortality rates than non-Hispanic White populations, including when comparing within levels of educational attainment. If all… Continue reading “New Study Examines Variation in COVID-19 Mortality in the US by Race and Ethnicity and Educational Attainment” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog Posted on November 29, 2021November 29, 2021 FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Joins Coalition to End Racism in Clinical Algorithms Dr. Marie Plaisime is among 12 members of the newly-formed Coalition to End Racism in Clinical Algorithms. Read the original press release from the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene: The Health Department today announced the formation of the Coalition to End Racism in Clinical Algorithms (CERCA). Flowing from the Board of Health’s landmark resolution declaring racism a public health crisis, CERCA was formed to end the inclusion of… Continue reading “FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Joins Coalition to End Racism in Clinical Algorithms” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on November 16, 2021November 19, 2021 FXB Center Doctoral Student Cohort Member Submits Testimony in Support of Ending Solitary Confinement Today, FXB Center for Health and Human Rights doctoral cohort member Jasmine D. Graves submitted written testimony in support of Massachusetts Legislature bills S.1578 and H.2504, which would provide criminal justice reform protections to all prisoners in segregated confinement in Massachusetts. Graves, a public health researcher and social impact strategist, shared her expertise and research on harms of segregated and restrictive housing in correctional settings. Read her submitted testimony: Dear… Continue reading “FXB Center Doctoral Student Cohort Member Submits Testimony in Support of Ending Solitary Confinement” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Uncategorized Posted on November 3, 2021November 3, 2021 FXB Center Joins Public Health & Human Rights for Mass and Cass Coalition; Calls on Boston Mayor Elect to Implement Health-Centered Approach Today, as part of the new Public Health & Human Rights for Mass and Cass Coalition, the FXB Center called on Boston Mayor-Elect Michelle Wu to implement a health-centered approach to the intersecting crises at Melnea Cass Boulevard and Massachusetts Avenue. The area, more commonly known as “Mass. and Cass,” is home to unhoused individuals in need of public health supports and housing. The coalition recommends a six-point plan: Protect… Continue reading “FXB Center Joins Public Health & Human Rights for Mass and Cass Coalition; Calls on Boston Mayor Elect to Implement Health-Centered Approach” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on October 26, 2021October 26, 2021 FXB Center Health and Human Rights Fellow Submits Testimony to Boston City Council Today, FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Dr. Jourdyn Lawrence submitted written testimony to the Boston City Council Committee on Civil Rights in support of Docket #0734: Order for a Hearing Regarding Reparations and Their Impact on the Civil Rights of Black Bostonians. In her testimony, Dr. Lawrence shared her expertise and research on reparations and racial inequities. Read her submitted testimony: Dear Members of the Boston City Council Committee… Continue reading “FXB Center Health and Human Rights Fellow Submits Testimony to Boston City Council” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on October 25, 2021October 25, 2021 FXB Center Health and Human Rights Fellow Testifies Before Massachusetts Racial Inequities in Maternal Health Commission Today, FXB Health and Human Rights Fellow Dr. Brittney Butler testified before the Massachusetts Legislature’s Racial Inequities in Maternal Health Commission. The hearing was a listening session on maternal health efforts and experiences in the Metro West and Central Massachusetts regions. In her testimony, Dr. Butler shared her expertise and research on maternal mortality and morbidity. Read her remarks as prepared for delivery: Dear Members of the Racial Inequities in Maternal… Continue reading “FXB Center Health and Human Rights Fellow Testifies Before Massachusetts Racial Inequities in Maternal Health Commission” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on September 29, 2021October 21, 2021 FXB Center Director to Serve As New York State Health Commissioner; Dr. Natalia Linos Named Acting Director Today, New York State Governor Kathy Hochul appointed FXB Center for Health and Human Rights Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett as Commissioner of the New York State Department of Health. Dr. Bassett joined the FXB Center in 2018, following four years of service as New York City’s health commissioner. During her time at the FXB Center, Dr. Bassett strengthened the Center’s focus on structural racism both domestically and abroad, including… Continue reading “FXB Center Director to Serve As New York State Health Commissioner; Dr. Natalia Linos Named Acting Director” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:About FXB, Blog, News Posted on September 21, 2021September 29, 2021 FXB Center Announces New Initiative For Racial Justice The FXB Center today announced a new fellowship program for racial justice in partnership with the JPB Foundation, featuring five new fellows with diverse backgrounds in health and human rights. The announcement came during the virtual symposium “Anti-Racism in Public Health Policies, Practice and Research,” hosted by the FXB Center to launch its new racial justice initiative, which includes research and a series of conversations on racism as a determinant… Continue reading “FXB Center Announces New Initiative For Racial Justice” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Events, FXB Programs, News Posted on September 10, 2021September 10, 2021 FXB Center Launches New Video Series Featuring Leading Health and Human Rights Experts A new online video series from the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University highlights eight leading experts whose work and research focuses on a multitude of structural and societal factors that affect health outcomes. “The Intersection” series features interviews with these experts on how the COVID-19 pandemic has realigned health and human rights priorities and focuses on important policies to advance in the next year. “The… Continue reading “FXB Center Launches New Video Series Featuring Leading Health and Human Rights Experts” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:News Posted on July 29, 2021July 30, 2021 FXB Center Welcomes New Fellows and Staff, Announces Promotions The FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard is pleased to announce several new hires and promotions. Learn more about our new fellows and staff members: Dr. Brittney N. Butler (she/her) is a social epidemiologist whose primary research seeks document and combat anti-Black racism as a fundamental cause of racial disparities in maternal morbidity and mortality for Black women. Dr. Butler holds a dual academic appointment as an… Continue reading “FXB Center Welcomes New Fellows and Staff, Announces Promotions” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:News Posted on June 18, 2021 Commentary: It’s Time For Boston To Pay Reparations In recognition of Juneteenth, FXB Center Research Associate Matlin Gilman and FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett co-authored an opinion piece highlighting the need for the City of Boston to provide reparations to Black Boston residents. In a commentary published today in Cognoscenti, the authors write: “As we celebrate, we also commit ourselves to an ongoing racial reckoning, a reckoning that must include reparations for nearly 250 years of… Continue reading “Commentary: It’s Time For Boston To Pay Reparations” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Highlights//Tags:juneteenth Posted on May 12, 2021July 29, 2021 Harvard Chan Perspectives: Why a national ban on menthol cigarettes is the right choice Following the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) recent announcement that it will take steps to ban menthol cigarettes, FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett was interviewed for a Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health article. In the article, Bassett — a former smoker herself — describes how the tobacco industry intentionally marketed menthol cigarettes to the Black community, resulting in 45,000 deaths a year. Bassett shared her… Continue reading “Harvard Chan Perspectives: Why a national ban on menthol cigarettes is the right choice” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog Posted on April 20, 2021July 29, 2021 Statement from FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett About Derek Chauvin Verdict BOSTON, MA – In response to former Minneapolis Police Officer Derek Chauvin being found guilty of murdering George Floyd, FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett issued the following statement: “Today’s verdict is an important step for individual accountability and justice. But we are not going to end police violence in court rooms, case by case. The problem of police violence is systemic and radical change to our policies and… Continue reading “Statement from FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett About Derek Chauvin Verdict” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News Posted on April 12, 2021July 29, 2021 Press Release: New Report Examines Challenges of Migrants In West And Central Africa; Identifies Solutions To Protect Migrants BOSTON, MA – The François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University (FXB Center) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) today released “See Migration Like Water: An Analysis of IOM Flow Monitoring Survey Data on Migration Flows in West and Central Africa,” a detailed analysis of migration flows and migrant vulnerability on routes within and from West and Central Africa. The West and Central Africa region… Continue reading “Press Release: New Report Examines Challenges of Migrants In West And Central Africa; Identifies Solutions To Protect Migrants” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog Posted on April 7, 2021April 20, 2021 FXB Center Statement on International Roma Day U.S. House and Senate Resolutions BOSTON, MA – On March 18, 2021, resolutions to celebrate the heritage of Romani Americans were introduced in the House and Senate. The Roma Program at the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights welcomes this initiative, which represents a symbol of hope in the recognition of the history, realities, and rights of often marginalized Romani Americans and other Roma people across the world. We are grateful for the tremendous efforts of… Continue reading “FXB Center Statement on International Roma Day U.S. House and Senate Resolutions” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:International Roma Day, Roma World Congress Posted on January 8, 2021January 8, 2021 ACLU: 50 Years Into the War on Drugs, Biden-Harris Can Fix the Harm It Created Note: This blog first appeared on the ACLU website on January 6, 2021. The blog mentions From the War on Drugs to Harm Reduction: Imagining A Just Overdose Crisis Response, a new report from the FXB Center, Open Society Foundations and Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. By Udi Ofer, Director, Justice Division, ACLU An earlier version of this blog appeared in The Hill. This year marks 50 years since President Richard… Continue reading “ACLU: 50 Years Into the War on Drugs, Biden-Harris Can Fix the Harm It Created” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News//Tags:from the war on drugs to harm reduction Posted on December 16, 2020January 8, 2021 Press Release: National Public Health Experts Urge Biden-Harris Transition Team to End War on Drugs and Lead Coordinated Public Health Response to the Opioid Overdose Crisis The François-Xavier Bagnoud (FXB) Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University today urged the Biden-Harris transition team to implement drug policy reforms to curb overdose deaths and address long-standing harms stemming from the multigenerational “War on Drugs” campaign. In collaboration with the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation and Open Society Foundations, the FXB Center sent the Biden-Harris transition team a new report, titled From the War on Drugs to… Continue reading “Press Release: National Public Health Experts Urge Biden-Harris Transition Team to End War on Drugs and Lead Coordinated Public Health Response to the Opioid Overdose Crisis” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:biden-harris transition team, overdose crisis Posted on December 10, 2020 Let’s Recover Better By Standing for Human Rights Human Rights Day is an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of human rights in re-building the world we want, the need for global solidarity as well as our interconnectedness and shared humanity. Commemorated annually by the United Nations, this year’s Human Rights Day theme relates to the COVID-19 pandemic and focuses on the need to build back better by ensuring human rights are central to recovery efforts, tackling entrenched, systematic… Continue reading “Let’s Recover Better By Standing for Human Rights” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:human rights day Posted on November 30, 2020 New Study on Romani American Experience Shines Light on Persistent Inequities and Discrimination The François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University today released a new study that draws attention to the inequities the Roma diaspora faces in the United States. Published in collaboration with the advocacy nonprofit Voice of Roma, the study, titled Romani Realities in the United States: Breaking the Silence, Challenging the Stereotypes, includes insight from 363 questionnaires with Romani Americans, touching on socioeconomic conditions, stigma, discrimination,… Continue reading “New Study on Romani American Experience Shines Light on Persistent Inequities and Discrimination” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:anti-Roma racism, human rights, racism, Roma, Romani, Romani studies Posted on November 20, 2020 New Essay Draws Important Parallels Between Public Health and Atrocity Prevention, Systems Designed to Protect From Harm FXB Center for Health and Human Rights Senior Fellow and Harvard T.H. Chan Professor Jennifer Leaning recently compared approaches to prevention and early warning in public health to those for mass atrocity. Her essay, “Prevention in Public Health and Atrocity: A Comparative Approach to Early Warning for Early Action,” appears in the latest issue of Politorbis, an official publication of the Swiss Foreign Ministry. As Leaning posits, “An understanding of… Continue reading “New Essay Draws Important Parallels Between Public Health and Atrocity Prevention, Systems Designed to Protect From Harm” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Uncategorized//Tags:atrocity prevention, COVID-1919, early warning, mass atrocity, public health Posted on October 15, 2020January 7, 2021 At the Intersection of Human Migration and Climate Change: New Article Puts Out Call to Action In a new article published in Current Environmental Health Reports this week, faculty and fellows from the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University examine the complexities at the intersection of human migration and climate change. As powerfully argued by Drs. Satchit Balsari, Caleb Dresser and Jennifer Leaning in “Climate Change, Migration and Civil Strife,” migration must be anticipated as a certainty, and thereby planned for and supported.… Continue reading “At the Intersection of Human Migration and Climate Change: New Article Puts Out Call to Action” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Uncategorized//Tags:climate change, migration Posted on October 6, 2020 Op-Ed: It Is Time Reparations Are Paid for Roma Slavery Dr. Margareta Matache, director of the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights’ Roma Program, makes the case for justice, reparations and anti-racist policies following 500 years of enslavement and economic exploitation of the Romani people. Read her full op-ed in Al Jazeera. Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:Roma, Roma slavery Posted on September 11, 2020 New Article – Every Body Counts: Measuring Mortality From the COVID-19 Pandemic A new article, published today in the Annals of Internal Medicine, examines how relying solely on death certificate data can result in an underestimate of COVID-19 mortality rates, making it difficult to assess the true toll of the pandemic. The article’s authors, FXB Center Fellow Mathew Kiang, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professors Rafael Irizarry and Caroline Buckee, and FXB Center Fellow Dr. Satchit Balsari, propose ways to… Continue reading “New Article – Every Body Counts: Measuring Mortality From the COVID-19 Pandemic” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on September 3, 2020September 3, 2020 Study Finds Rate of COVID-19 in Massachusetts Jails and Prisons Is Three Times the General Rate in the State A recent epidemiological study finds that the rate of COVID-19 for incarcerated individuals in Massachusetts is almost three times that of the state’s general population and five times that of the U.S. general population. As shown in Figure B (caption below), the study also finds that higher rates of decarceration are linked to lower rates of COVID-19. Dr. Monik C. Jiménez, Tori L. Cowger, Dr. Lisa E. Simon, Maya Behn,… Continue reading “Study Finds Rate of COVID-19 in Massachusetts Jails and Prisons Is Three Times the General Rate in the State” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized//Tags:COVID-19, decarceration, incarceration, jails, JAMA, Massachusetts, prisons, testing Posted on August 19, 2020 FXB Center Remembers Elaine Wolfensohn The FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University is sad to announce the passing of Elaine Wolfensohn, who represented her husband Jim Wolfensohn on the FXB Center’s Advisory Committee. For over forty years, Mrs. Wolfensohn was involved in the field of education and arts education while raising her family. Her work in Australia and the United States included teaching in private schools, creating teen tutoring programs in… Continue reading “FXB Center Remembers Elaine Wolfensohn” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on August 10, 2020 Study Finds CDC Population Weighting Distorts Racial/Ethnic Inequities in U.S. COVID-19 Deaths A new research letter in JAMA Network Open argues that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) underestimates the excess burden of COVID-19 deaths among Black, Latinx, and Asian communities by comparing the percentage of U.S. COVID-19 deaths by race/ethnicity with a weighted distribution of U.S. racial/ethnic populations rather than with corresponding U.S. Census data—a distortion that has the potential to affect resource allocation. FXB Center for Health… Continue reading “Study Finds CDC Population Weighting Distorts Racial/Ethnic Inequities in U.S. COVID-19 Deaths” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Uncategorized//Tags:CDC, health inequity, racial disparities Posted on June 30, 2020June 30, 2020 Mental Health and COVID-19 Focus of Health and Human Rights Journal’s Largest Issue The June issue of the Health and Human Rights Journal (HHRJ) is especially timely with a special section on mental health and human rights. It was published shortly after the United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres urged the international community to do much more to protect all those facing mounting mental health pressures as a result of COVID-19, and the World Health Organization published guidelines for communities to support people experiencing mental distress.… Continue reading “Mental Health and COVID-19 Focus of Health and Human Rights Journal’s Largest Issue” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Featured//Tags:coronavirus, COVID-19, health and human rights journal, mental health Posted on June 24, 2020June 23, 2020 New Study Calls Attention to Inequities in Police Violence in U.S. Metropolitan Areas An article, authored by FXB Center Doctoral Student Cohort Members Gabriel L. Schwartz and Jaquelyn L. Jahn, reveals the stark inequities in fatal police violence between Black and White populations in U.S. metropolitan areas. The article, published in PLOS ONE, estimates rates of fatal police violence for every metropolitan area in the country, as well as racial inequities in those rates. The authors analyzed the most recent, complete data—from 2013… Continue reading “New Study Calls Attention to Inequities in Police Violence in U.S. Metropolitan Areas” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, News//Tags:police violence Posted on June 23, 2020June 23, 2020 COVID-19 Health Justice Advisory Committee Joint Statement Issues Juneteenth Statement The following statement was issued by the Poor People’s Campaign COVID-19 Health Justice Advisory Committee on June 19, 2020. FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett, Executive Director Natalia Linos and Director of Communications Veronica Lewin serve on the committee. Learn more about the committee here. Watch committee members read the statement here. “The United States is facing an important moment in its history. We have entered the sixth month… Continue reading “COVID-19 Health Justice Advisory Committee Joint Statement Issues Juneteenth Statement” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Uncategorized//Tags:health justice, juneteenth, poor people's campaign Posted on June 16, 2020August 21, 2020 Working Paper, The Unequal Toll of Covid-19 Mortality by Age in the United States: Quantifying Racial/Ethnic Disparities FXB Center for Health and Human Rights Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett is the lead author of a new working paper exploring racial/ethnic differences in age-specific Covid-19 mortality rates in the U.S. The Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies Working Paper Series published the paper this week. Dr. Bassett collaborated with Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Professor Nancy Krieger and Research Scientist Dr. Jarvis Chen in this… Continue reading “Working Paper, The Unequal Toll of Covid-19 Mortality by Age in the United States: Quantifying Racial/Ethnic Disparities” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:COVID-19, health inequities, mortality, racial disparities Posted on May 29, 2020June 15, 2020 Harvard University Centers Condemn Recent Police Violence in the United States The following is a joint statement from the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, FXB Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University, Hutchins Center for African & African American Research, the International Human Rights Clinic at Harvard Law School, the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race & Justice at Harvard Law School, and the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics. Note: please see below for a list of additional co-signers. “We… Continue reading “Harvard University Centers Condemn Recent Police Violence in the United States” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Highlights, News//Tags:human rights, police violence, racism Posted on May 22, 2020May 22, 2020 Study: Structural Racism, Historical Redlining, and Preterm Birth in New York City A new study published this week in the American Journal of Public Health explores the long-term impact of historical redlining on preterm births in New York City. The study, conducted by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Professor Nancy Krieger, Pamela D. Waterman and FXB Center for Health and Human Rights Director Mary T. Bassett, and NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene epidemiologists, found a higher proportion… Continue reading “Study: Structural Racism, Historical Redlining, and Preterm Birth in New York City” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:health equity, redlining, structural racism Posted on May 21, 2020 FXB Center Leadership Calls for Protections for McDonald’s Employees In solidarity with workers, FXB Center for Health and Human Rights Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett and Executive Director Natalia Linos co-signed an open letter urging McDonald’s CEO Chris Kempczinski to adequately protect the safety of employees and consumers during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the letter, the experts point to “a pattern of severe shortcomings by McDonald’s,” including failure to provide adequate PPE and to inform workers when they are… Continue reading “FXB Center Leadership Calls for Protections for McDonald’s Employees” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized Posted on May 7, 2020 Coordinated and Evidence-Based Easing of Social Distancing Restrictions That Centers Equity and Justice is the Only Way to Save Lives and Protect the Poor During the COVID-19 Pandemic The following statement was issued by the Poor People’s Campaign Health Justice Advisory Committee on May 3, 2020. FXB Center Director Dr. Mary T. Bassett, Executive Director Natalia Linos and Director of Communications Veronica Lewin serve on the committee. Learn more about the committee here. Point 1: Social distancing measures are working to mitigate the spread of the virus despite the uncoordinated federal response that has led to the current… Continue reading “Coordinated and Evidence-Based Easing of Social Distancing Restrictions That Centers Equity and Justice is the Only Way to Save Lives and Protect the Poor During the COVID-19 Pandemic” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:coronavirus, COVID-19, covid19, health equity, reopening Posted on April 30, 2020May 1, 2020 Standing Up Against Anti-Romani Racism During A Pandemic By Drs. Aluízio de Azevedo Silva Júnior and Margareta (Magda) Matache Across the world, a violent and disturbing trend of anti-Romani racist acts by the police, policy makers, media, and others is putting Romani families and communities at risk during the COVID-19 pandemic. We are also attacked when we speak out against this injustice. For example, an op-ed addressing anti-Romani racism published by Libertatea, a well-known Romanian newspaper, was swiftly… Continue reading “Standing Up Against Anti-Romani Racism During A Pandemic” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:anti-Roma racism, COVID-19, racism Posted on April 24, 2020May 7, 2020 Opinion: The Urgent Need to Transfer Vulnerable Migrants from Europe’s Largest Migrant Hotspot In a recent opinion piece, François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights’ Director of Research Professor Jacqueline Bhabha and Instructor Vasileia Digidiki discuss the current COVID-19 situation in Greece, the migrant hotspot Greek islands, and what the European Union should be doing to address the crisis. In it, the authors write: “Without effective and coordinated action, the pandemic will immobilize the Union’s most precarious and embattled member. This would… Continue reading “Opinion: The Urgent Need to Transfer Vulnerable Migrants from Europe’s Largest Migrant Hotspot” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:coronavirus, COVID-19, Greece, Lesvos Posted on April 20, 2020April 20, 2020 Responding to the Domestic Violence Crisis of COVID-19 By Roshni Chakraborty Worldwide, countries have imposed lockdowns and issued stay-at-home orders to mitigate the community transmission of COVID-19. For many, however, staying at home poses a greater threat to their health than leaving. Activists and governments around the world have reported an alarming spike in domestic violence since social distancing measures were adopted. The United Nations has called for a domestic violence “ceasefire,” raising its concerns about a “horrifying… Continue reading “Responding to the Domestic Violence Crisis of COVID-19” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog, Uncategorized//Tags:child abuse, children, COVID-19, domestic violence, india, spousal abuse Posted on April 16, 2020 New Data Visualization Tool Can Help Officials Assess COVID-19 Vulnerability in Their Communities The COVID-19 epidemic in the United States is already exposing a disastrous convergence of demographic and socioeconomic inequities that make some communities more vulnerable than others. Hotspots of COVID-19 are emerging in urban cities, from New York City, to Detroit, Milwaukee to New Orleans, and Chicago, with the greatest harm concentrated in neighborhoods that are home to Black and Hispanic populations. While social determinants influencing the impact of COVID-19 on… Continue reading “New Data Visualization Tool Can Help Officials Assess COVID-19 Vulnerability in Their Communities” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:coronavirus, COVID-19, data visualization, health inequities Posted on April 9, 2020April 9, 2020 FXB Center Leadership Joins Poor People’s Campaign COVID-19 Health Justice Advisory Committee; Calls for Equitable U.S. Response The following is an April 8, 2020 press release issued by the Poor People’s Campaign. Learn more about the Campaign here. Poor People’s Campaign new advisory committee says prevention efforts, treatment must be equitable The Poor People’s Campaign’s new COVID-19 advisory committee is demanding that hospitals and health departments begin reporting coronavirus cases by poverty and income; race and ethnicity and other relevant demographics including geography to ensure that prevention… Continue reading “FXB Center Leadership Joins Poor People’s Campaign COVID-19 Health Justice Advisory Committee; Calls for Equitable U.S. Response” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:coronavirus, COVID-19, health equity, health justice Posted on April 7, 2020April 8, 2020 International Roma Day: The History of the FXB Center’s Roma Program This year marks the eighth anniversary of the Roma Program at Harvard University. Conceived and built by the François-Xavier Bagnoud (FXB) Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard, the Program has become a leading focal point for Roma scholarship, convening and advocacy in North America and beyond. A key aspect of this, by tradition, is the Roma Program’s annual international conference to mark April 8, International Roma Day. This… Continue reading “International Roma Day: The History of the FXB Center’s Roma Program” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Blog//Tags:International Roma Day, Realizing Roma Rights, Roma, Romani Posted on April 1, 2020April 1, 2020 Dr. Mary T. Bassett’s Statement on COVID-19 for the Poor People’s Campaign At the request of the Poor People’s Campaign, Dr. Mary T. Bassett, Director of the François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights at Harvard University, released the following statement on the health equity impact of COVID-19: The United States was woefully unprepared for the COVID-19 pandemic, and now has the worst COVID-19 outbreak in the world. This was preventable. Knowing the inadequacies of our country’s health care and social… Continue reading “Dr. Mary T. Bassett’s Statement on COVID-19 for the Poor People’s Campaign” Share this:FacebookTwitterLinkedInReddit Categories:Uncategorized//Tags:COVID-19, equity, health equity Posts navigation Page 1 Page 2 … Page 7 Next page Follow us on Twitter @FXBHarvardMy Tweets Archives Archives Select Month May 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 July 2021 June 2021 May 2021 April 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 July 2014 May 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 June 2013 Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email Name Website