Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Facilities and Operations Fiscal Year 2019 Annual Report Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Year in Review Top Stories Multimedia Highlights Awards & Recognition In the News Facilities and Operations Fiscal Year 2019 Annual Report Home The Forum, the third new building at Columbia's Manhattanville campus, opened in September 2018 and achieved LEED® Gold certification. (Photo: Nic Lehoux) Supporting Columbia, 24/7 WELCOME From Executive Vice President David M. Greenberg David M. Greenberg, Executive Vice President Every year at Columbia, there are the marquee moments that attract the spotlight and bring the University community together. Conversely, there is the daily routine of University life – often hidden from the spotlight but fundamental for students, faculty and staff to focus on their core missions. In both cases – and as illustrated in the examples from Fiscal Year 2019 to follow – there is one constant: individuals throughout Facilities and Operations delivering best-in-class support and professional expertise with an unwavering commitment to providing the best customer service for our University partners. Our many collective successes this year include achieving 100% zero emissions renewable electricity, increasing the number of accessible ramps and instructional spaces for community members with disabilities, promoting well-being and health tools for students and staff, and welcoming several new small, local businesses to our neighborhood. I am also thrilled that we once again received several prestigious awards this year, including from the Urban Land Institute of NY for Columbia’s Manhattanville campus; “Best New Building” for The Forum from the Municipal Art Society of New York; the #1 ranking for “Best College for Food in America” by the Daily Meal and “#1 School for Sustainable Transportation” according to the 2018 Sustainable Campus Index. This kind of recognition speaks to our commitment to provide the best customer service for the University as well as the professionalism and expertise of our team. Facilities and Operations is always looking for ways to better serve the Columbia community. Our most recent annual client survey highlighted effective areas of service as well as areas where improvement is needed. As a result, we have implemented a number of process improvements, including adding employees to help ensure campus cleanliness in highly-trafficked areas, launching a monthly digital e-newsletter, introducing new shuttle buses and stops, and creating a mobile app that simplifies the work management process for service requests across campus. You will find these examples and more spread throughout the report that speak to the customer-centric approach of our work. As you look through the report, email us at [email protected] to share your thoughts – positive or constructive – on the year that was, and share with us projects or initiatives that we can support for you in the year ahead. Whether you are a Columbia affiliate, a fellow colleague in Facilities and Operations, or a member of the larger community, thank you for being a partner with us in supporting the greater mission of this world-class institution. YEAR IN REVIEW Top Stories A closer look at our work in FY 2019 Industry Leaders Photo: Nic Lehoux Columbia’s Manhattanville Campus Wins Urban Land Institute Award Columbia Dining Ranked #1 College for Food in America Columbia University Achieves 100% Zero Emissions Renewable Electricity in 2018 (Re)New Spaces and Places Dear Mama Coffee Opens at Columbia University’s New Manhattanville Campus Lawn Access and Improvements Continue through FY19 St. Paul's Chapel Receives Monumental Restoration Commitment to Excellence Campus Sustainability Fair Demonstrates a Thriving Environmentalist Culture Facilities and Operations, IT Implements Its First Mobile App for Everyday Use University Event Management Caters Pulitzer Prize Award Dinner Strong Partnerships Labor Union Celebrates 75 Years with Columbia Pre-Apprenticeship Program Puts Upper Manhattan Residents on a Path to Success in Growing Construction Industry Columbia, NYPD Welcome Harlem Kids Back to School with Supply Donations, Street Fair Multimedia Highlights Engaging with students, faculty, staff and the community through websites, video, photography, events, and more Uptown Artisanal Pop-Up Market in Columbia University Retail Space Columbia Dining Staff Take Three-Day Intensive Course with Culinary Institute of America Chefs Installation of Central Energy Plant Boiler East Campus Residence Hall Improvements Building Commencement Sustainability at Columbia Denim Day at Columbia A 360-Degree Tour of New Accessible Classrooms in Chandler Hall Tips for Being a Good Neighbor Columbia Dining Launches New Website Launch of Live Well | Learn Well Website Columbia Parking Launches New Website Awards & Recognition Acclaim for the work our teams performed on campus and in the community Expand all Collapse all Columbia’s Manhattanville Campus Wins Sustainable Construction Award Columbia University’s Manhattanville campus was honored with the 2019 Sustainable Construction Award at the New York Build Expo. The award was received by Lendlease, a construction management firm on the project, in recognition of the sustainable construction techniques employed when building the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, Lenfest Center for the Arts and Central Energy Plant. Photo: Nic Lehoux The Forum Earns LEED Gold Certification The Forum received LEED® Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). The certification was achieved through a broad range of criteria, such as utilizing the building’s sustainable site, improving water efficiency, reducing energy, and more. Photo: Nic Lehoux Columbia University Receives Engineering Excellence Award for the “Bubble at Baker” Columbia University received a Gold Engineering Excellence Award from the American Council of Engineering Companies of New York (ACEC New York) for the construction of the Bubble at Baker, a seasonal air-supported structure covering the Rocco B. Commisso Soccer Stadium to create an indoor practice facility for Columbia Athletics during the winter months. The award was received in the category of special projects as part of ACEC New York’s 2018 Engineering Excellence Award competition. Photo credit: Columbia University Athletics The Forum Wins “Best New Building” from the Municipal Art Society of New York The Forum was recognized with a 2019 MASterworks Award for “Best New Building” from the Municipal Art Society of New York (MAS). Selected each year by an esteemed jury, the MASterworks Awards pay tribute to projects that make a significant contribution to New York City’s built environment. Columbia Dining Ranked #1 College for Food in America by the Daily Meal Columbia Dining was recognized by the Daily Meal as the #1 best college for food in 2018. AIA New York Honors The Forum with Prestigious Architectural Merit Award The Forum was recognized with a 2019 Merit Award in the Architecture category from AIA New York, the oldest and largest chapter of the American Institute of Architects. Photo: Nic Lehoux Columbia’s Manhattanville Campus Wins Urban Land Institute Award Columbia University’s Manhattanville campus was awarded the 2019 Urban Land Institute New York (ULI NY) Award for Excellence in Institutional Development, a statewide competition recognizing projects that demonstrate commitment to planning, design, sustainability, and community impact. (Photo: Steven Lipofsky) Association of Minority Contractors Honors Columbia University’s Diversity Initiatives in Construction Columbia University received the 2018 Diversity Champion Award from the New York Tri-State Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors (NAMC-NY) for the University’s dedication to growing opportunities for minority-, women-, and locally-owned (MWL) business enterprises. The award was created to honor people and organizations that have demonstrated innovative and creative strategies to remove barriers for under-represented groups; that support women, the disadvantaged and small businesses and allowed for increased public; and private construction contract opportunities. Columbia University Receives STARS Gold Rating for Sustainability Achievements For the third year in a row, Columbia University has earned a STARS Gold rating in recognition of its sustainability achievements from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE). STARS, the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System, measures and encourages sustainability in all aspects of higher education. Columbia scored particularly high in campus engagement due to the Sustainable Leaders Network (SLN) and related efforts to reinforce sustainable behavior-change across campuses. Columbia Honored by SNACK Columbia Community Service and Campus Services were honored by the Special Needs Activity Center for Kids and Adults (SNACK), a New York City-based not-for-profit organization that supports children, teens, and adults with Autism Spectrum Disorders and other similar developmental and behavioral disabilities by providing after-school and weekend recreational programs designed and staffed to address their needs. SNACK is a grant recipient of Columbia Community Service, Columbia University’s giving campaign that supports local nonprofit organizations to help address the needs of underserved individuals in our local community. Columbia University Receives State Recycling Leadership Award The New York State Association for Reduction, Reuse and Recycling (NYSAR3) awarded Columbia University with the Recycling Leadership Award in the College or University category for promoting recycling, composting, and other initiatives to reduce waste to landfill. Marcelo Velez Honored by the New York City Hispanic Chamber of Commerce The New York City Hispanic Chamber of Commerce honored Marcelo Velez, vice president of Manhattanville Development, with the Groundbreaker Award at its 13th annual Hispanic Business Award Banquet and Scholarship Ceremony. The event honors individuals who advocate for economic development, higher education, and promote initiatives that empower the Latino community in New York City. Columbia University Named #1 School for Sustainable Transportation Columbia University was recognized as the top school for Transportation in the 2018 Sustainable Campus Index, a publication of the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) that highlights top-performing colleges and universities. Columbia’s #1 ranking was achieved for its electric and alternative fuel vehicle fleet; sustainable commuting options; bicycle-friendly amenities; carpool and car share incentives; and high percentage of students, faculty and staff that utilize sustainable transportation. Columbia University Commits to Clean Air NY Campus Partnership Columbia University has been selected as a Clean Air NY Campus Partner, an honor given to institutions of higher education who go above and beyond to encourage and facilitate their communities to carpool, take public transit, bike, or walk to campus. Columbia Health Achieves AAAHC Reaccreditation Columbia Health was reaccredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC). Columbia Health has been an accredited health organization since April 1993. Successful completion of the accreditation process places Columbia Health among the elite 10% of college health services that have voluntarily pursued accreditation and met the rigorous standards of a nationally-recognized third party. New York & New Jersey Minority Supplier Diversity Council Nominates Columbia as Finalist for Local Corporation of the Year Columbia University was nominated as a finalist for the 2018 Local Corporation of the Year award by the New York & New Jersey Minority Supplier Diversity Council at their annual gala. All finalists were honored for exemplary achievement in the area of minority supplier development and strength in areas critical to maintaining diverse procurement practices. League of American Bicyclists Names Columbia University a Silver-Level Bicycle Friendly University The League of American Bicyclists honored Columbia with a Silver-level Bicycle Friendly University award in recognition of the institution’s achievements in promoting and enabling safe, accessible bicycling on campus. In the News Moments when our work was featured in the news How to put the 'special' in special dining events Foodservice Director, August 21, 2018 Columbia University’s Manhattanville campus debuts final Renzo Piano building Curbed New York, September 27, 2018 To Expand Access to Emergency Contraception, Some Colleges Try Vending Machines Wall Street Journal, December 18, 2018 Disability Access Is Improving Across Morningside Campus Columbia University Record, April 9, 2019 Modernizing a Monument Columbia College Today, Spring 2019 This Graduate Wears Two Hats at Commencement Columbia University Record, May 9, 2019 Columbia partners with real estate trust on LaunchLabs space Crain's New York Business, June 12, 2019 New Digs for Columbia’s Oldest Tree Columbia Magazine, Summer 2019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close