Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Game Day Schedule Plan Your Experience Weekend Events Getting Around Stadium Info & Policies Home Search Menu Home › Plan Your Experience › Explore Campus Explore Campus Eck Visitors Center Snite Museum of Art Campus Tours Eck Visitors Center The Eck Visitors Center located on Notre Dame Avenue in the heart of campus, is the home of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. It also serves as a hospitality center, museum, and meeting place for alumni, parents, and friends. Stop by the Eck Visitors Center to inquire about a self-guided virtual tour of campus and enjoy exhibits that share the unique history and traditions of the University of Notre Dame. A video presentation chronicling Notre Dame’s traditions is also a highlight for many visitors. Parking Guest parking is available first come, first served in the Joyce/Compton Parking Lot on Holy Cross Drive between Compton Family Ice Arena and Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center, just east of the Eck Visitors Center and near Legends Restaurant. Football Fridays at the Eck Stop by the Eck Visitors Center (next to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore) from 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. on home football Fridays for food, fun, interviews with Notre Dame celebrities; student group performances; and stories from the Notre Dame family. Admission is free. When Where Time EVERY Home Game Friday Eck Visitors Center Patio 11:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. For more info, visit the Alumni Assoiciation or contact them at 574-631-6000 or ndalumni@nd.edu. Snite Museum of Art Welcome back to the Snite Museum of Art. In addition to normal protocols regarding no food and drink, and no touching, Notre Dame has asked that all visitors to campus, regardless of vaccination status, are expected to wear masks inside campus buildings in an effort to help us protect our community. Admission is always free. Hours remain the same: Tuesday-Friday 10:00- 5:00 p.m., Thursday evenings until 7:30 p.m., Saturdays Noon-5:00 p.m. Closed on Sunday, Monday, and major holidays. Kevin Beasley (American, born 1985) Chair of the Ministers of Defense, 2016 This immersive installation explores ideas of power and race in America through theatrics reminiscent of the Roman Baroque. Here, renowned conceptual artist Kevin Beasley calls into focus Black liberation movements and ongoing imbalances of power experienced by Black Americans and marginalized men and women of color. The work maintains a formality often employed in religious imagery and in art intended to convey the divine right of leaders. Jim Dine (American, born 1935), Among the most distinguished figures in Contemporary art, Jim Dine (b. 1935) is an inspiring presence as a painter, printmaker, sculptor, and poet. Fearlessly experimental, Dine helped define the Pop Art movement, then expanded his creative reach within and beyond the American art scene to become one of the most iconic and influential artists on the international stage. Campus Tours A tour of our campus will add a new dimension to your experience of a football weekend. Please stop by Eck Visitors Center for information on our virtual tour. Tours for prospective or recently admitted students can be arranged online through the Admissions Office or by calling 574-631-7505. Return to top Home Schedule Plan Your Experience Tailgating Traditions Tickets and Hospitality Dining & Retail Explore Campus Photo Spots Weekend Events Getting Around Stadium Info & Policies Tailgating Traditions Tickets and Hospitality Dining & Retail Explore Campus Photo Spots University Enterprises and Events Game Day 502 Main Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 1-877-ND1-FANS gameday@nd.edu Twitter © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn