Information about COVID-19 and returning to campus × xSHOP Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links HOURS AND INFORMATION PHOTOGRAPHY POLICY Find People at UCR Give UC Riverside UCR Botanic Gardens A Nature Oasis and Living Museum in California's Inland Empire Search Home About Us The Gardens Buildings and Facilities The Physical Site History Staff Contact Us Visit us Visitor Information Directions What's in Bloom Wildlife Photography Policy Resources News News Archive Newsletter & eNews Sign up for Garden News Social Media Events Calendar of Events Art in the Gardens Bird Walk & Breakfast Members Annual Meeting Plant Sales Primavera, Wine & Food Tasting Rose Pruning Twilight Tours Tours Schedule your Tour (schools, adults, self-guided) Bird Walk & Breakfast Twilight Tours Virtual Tours All Virtual Tours Interactive GIS Map Story Map of Deserts of the Southwest Story Map of Plant Ecology California Native Plants Video Series Rentals Become a Member Volunteer Giving Contact UCR Home Quick Links HOURS AND INFORMATION PHOTOGRAPHY POLICY Find People at UCR Welcome to the UCR Botanic Gardens Plant Sales The largest plant sale events in the Inland Empire Read More Art in the Gardens A fundraiser where curated items from local artisans are offered for sale Read More Bird Walk & Breakfast Periodic early morning bird walks in the Gardens Read More Members Annual Meeting Members-only annual Meeting and Reception Read More Primavera in the Gardens Riverside’s premiere food, wine, and craft beer tasting event Read More Rose Pruning Annual Rose Pruning Demonstration Read More Twilight Tours After-hours Twilight Tours of the Botanic Gardens Read More Volunteer Orientation Sessions Learn how you can get involved Read More Previous Next The UCR Botanic Gardens is a living museum curated to inspire and facilitate education, research, and interpretation of the natural world. Please view calendar for business hours. The Gardens Located in the foothills of the Box Springs Mountains on the east side of the University of California, Riverside Campus, the Gardens covers 40 hilly acres. Come visit our collection and gardens, wander over four miles of scenic trails, or just relax on a bench and enjoy the beauty and vistas. The UCR Botanic Gardens are open MON - WED, 9:00 am to 12:00 pm, Thursday & Friday, 9:00 am to 2:00 pm, and Sundays, 8:00 am to 2:00 pm, except for major holidays, special events, and during UCR campus closure. Learn more NEW! Purchase UCR Botanic Gardens branded merchandise online- Scroll down to click PAY ONLINE! × Register / Pay online Featured Botanic Gardens News November 05, 2022 Art in the Gardens, November 5, 2022 Art in the Gardens Saturday, November 5, 2022 10:00 am-3:00 pm Join us for the 9th Art in the Gardens This will be a wonderful opportunity to purchase unique and beautiful art pieces (maybe shop early for the holidays!) enjoy... Read More » April 23, 2022 Spring Tour of a CA Native Garden, April 23, 2022 Moreno Valley garden tour, talk, and refreshments hosted by the UCR Botanic Gardens. Garden tour and talk provided by Master Gardener George Spiliotis and Master Gardener Karen Fleisher. Moreno Valley address provided upon registration. Two tour options: 10am-12pm & 1-3pm... Read More » April 02, 2022 Bird Walk & Breakfast, April 2, 2022- MAXIMUM CAPACITY REACHED The UCR campus is a bird hotspot for both permanent residents and seasonal migrating species (see ebird.org). The UCR Botanic Gardens will host an early morning Bird Walk in the Gardens on April 2, 2022, timed for ideal sightings and... Read More » April 02, 2022 Online Spring Plant Sale, April 2 & 3, 2022 For over four decades the UCR Botanic Gardens has hosted the largest plant sale events in the Inland Empire. These events were recently redesigned to focus on plants propagated from our own unique collection. Currently, due to the Coronavirus pandemic... Read More » More news Interactive Virtual tour (GIS Map) Southwest Deserts Story Map Plant Ecology Story Map UCRBG Newsletter Read our newsletters or sign up for eNews Learn more What's in Bloom? View our monthly listing of plants in bloom and their corresponding locations in the Gardens View listing Photography Policy Please review our policies and fees for professional, commercial and paid photographers Learn more Interactive Story Map Explore the Gardens with our new "Deserts of the Southwest" self-guided tour Open tour map Interactive GIS Map Locate more than 150 specimen in the Gardens View map Previous Next Info & Directions Calendar of events What's in bloom Newsletter & e-News Become a Member Volunteer Connect with us Donate Follow us on Instagram @ucrbotanicgardens Powered by EmbedSocial→ University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Botanic Gardens 1 Botanic Gardens Drive Riverside, CA 92507 tel: (951) 827-7090 email: ucrbg@ucr.edu Find Us COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links Related Links College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences American Public Gardens Association American Horticultural Society The National Wildlife Federation UCCE Master Gardener Program of Riverside County Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel