Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Gateways Program Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Search Gateways Program Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care and Research The Gateways Program at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University provides academically promising, motivated students new pathways to careers in medicine and other health sciences. Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care and Research The Gateways Program at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University provides academically promising, motivated students new pathways to careers in medicine and other health sciences. Master of Science in Medical Sciences This one-year master's program gives students a rigorous foundation in biomedical science, as well as an opportunity to explore first hand the complexities of today's healthcare system. Application deadline is June 1, 2022 Applications Now Open Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care, and Research welcomes applications from academically promising, motivated students with an interest in the health sciences. More information is available on our Admission page. Admission Admission Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care, and Research welcomes applications from academically promising, motivated students with an interest in the health sciences. Visit Page Open details for Admission Curriculum The Master in Medical Sciences program imparts an in-depth understanding of health and disease, a broad understanding of the complex factors affecting health and health care delivery, and first-hand experience working in a community health care setting with underserved and vulnerable patients. Visit Page Open details for Curriculum Why Gateways? This one-year master's program will gives students a rigorous foundation in biomedical science, as well as an opportunity to explore first hand the complexities of today's healthcare system. Student Life Gateways offers the best of both worlds: a smaller, tight-knit community off Providence's historic College Hill, and all the opportunity and activity of a world class University. Visit Page Open details for Student Life Outcomes The overwhelming majority of Gateways students who apply to medical school on completion of the program are accepted. Visit Page Open details for Outcomes Diversity Brown embraces diverse perspectives, experiences, and backgrounds. Diversity among our faculty, staff, and students creates a greater number of role models, broadens perspectives, and makes us better partners to the communities we serve. Visit Page Open details for Diversity https://www.youtube.com/embed/M99txy3ivNE Why did you choose Gateways? Learn more about the Master of Science in Medical Science at Brown University. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care and Research Open details for Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care and Research Bookmark this Page