Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Gateways Program Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Search Gateways Program FAQs Find answers to frequently asked question about the Masters Program in Medical Sciences at Brown. FAQs Find answers to frequently asked question about the Masters Program in Medical Sciences at Brown. How does the Brown Gateways Program (the ScM in Medical Sciences) differ from a postbaccalaureate program? Postbaccalaureate programs offer undergraduate science courses for students who need to complete premed requirements. The Brown Gateways program is intended for students who have completed prehealth requirements and are seeking graduate-level coursework to prepare them for a career in medicine, dentistry, healthcare, or research. The Gateways science courses are essentially the same as those taken by first-year medical students and lead to a master’s degree. What is unique about the Brown Gateways program (ScM)? Gateways offers a smaller class size than similar programs. Students receive more individual attention, closer mentoring and advising, and a rigorous curriculum. The Master's program offers a unique longitudinal service learning experience at a community healthcare site. What opportunities are available after completion of this program, in addition to medical school? Gateways students will receive advising and mentoring regarding career paths best suited to their individual goals. In addition to medicine, Gateways students will be extremely well prepared to pursue a variety of career paths including: dentistry, other healthcare professions, graduate study in a variety of fields, biomedical research, biotechnology, and the pharmaceutical industry. When does the program start and end? The ScM in Medical Sciences Program begins in July and runs through Memorial Day in May. Is it necessary to complete a thesis for the ScM in Medical Science? No, but there is a capstone project requirement. This project is built into one of the courses and is based at the students' community healthcare site. What is the cost of the program? The ScM program tuition for the 2021-2022 academic year is $58,259. For details regarding tuition and fees please see the 2021-2022 Master of Medical Sciences Cost of Attendance. Is financial aid available? Federal loans are available for the Master’s program. Please visit the AMS Office of Financial Aid website for further information. A limited amount of merit scholarship funding is available for 2021-2022. AMS Office of Financial Aid What is the application deadline? June 1, 2022. Are test scores required? Yes, an MCAT score from within the past two years is required. Do not submit your MCAT Score electronically through AMCAS, as those would go to our MD Program. To submit your scores to the Masters program, go to the online Testing History (THx) Report System. To get your verification code, log-in via the above link and choose the option to "create and print my own official score report." Please email this report as an attachment, being sure to include the verification code within the body of the email, to our institution. (You may have to select "print to PDF" to do so.) Please note that verification codes are only valid for 90 days, and after that, you would have to create and print a new score report. What are the prerequisites? In order to be admitted to the ScM in Medical Sciences program, students must: have completed, or are on track to complete, an undergraduate degree from a US college or university have demonstrated professional promise for a career in medicine, through outstanding undergraduate performance (3.0 GPA, minimum) MCAT score, community service, health-related experiences, or research have completed all prehealth course requirements (please note: if you are applying to medical school, you will need to check the prerequisite course requirements for the specific medical schools you are applying to, since these do vary from school to school) Is an interview required? Yes. Interviews are by invitation only. They will be done via Zoom. Can courses be counted towards my first year of medical school? Typically, no, but the final decision is at the discretion of the medical school you enroll in. Gateways coursework cannot be counted toward the first year of medical school at The Warren Alpert Medical School (AMS), if students are accepted at AMS. Does completion of the Brown Gateways program guarantee admission to Alpert Medical School? No, it does not guarantee admission. However, Gateways students are favorably considered by The Warren Alpert Medical School (AMS) Admissions Committee, and every year a few Gateways students are admitted to AMS. Additionally, our students have been extremely successful at gaining admission to a wide variety of medical schools, including top tier schools. Last cycle 92% of all students who applied were accepted to U.S. medical schools (many to multiple schools) and 100% who applied after completion of the program were accepted. See "Meet our Grads" page for more information. Meet Our Grads Does the Brown Gateways program accept international students? No. Enrollment is open only to US citizens, permanent residents or DACA students. (DACA students: Please contact us for application instructions.) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search FAQs Open details for FAQs Bookmark this Page