Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Gateways Program Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Search Gateways Program Meet Our Grads Learn more about recent graduates of the Gateways Program. Breadcrumb Home About Us Outcomes Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Meet Our Grads Learn more about recent graduates of the Gateways Program. Torie Livingston Undergraduate The University of Georgia Medical School University of Florida College of Medicine - Class of 2023 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Since graduating from Gateways, I returned to my job as a phlebotomist and explored other passions that I never had time for in the past. As a phlebotomist, I worked in places such as the Multiple Sclerosis Center of Atlanta and smaller private physicians’ offices. Aside from working, I am an assistant coach for a 15-year-old club volleyball team in Georgia. In addition, I am currently in the process of writing my third draft of a children’s book and searching for an editor. In the fall of 2019, I will be beginning medical school at the University of Florida College of Medicine. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Matriculating through the Gateways program has been a life-changing experience. Academically, I developed better study habits and learned how to process large amounts of information in a short amount of time. I was also introduced to topics in public health and science that I have never seen before and, with the help of faculty and classmates, learned how to craft a stand out primary application for medical school. Though I am grateful for those things, I am most thankful for what it did for my confidence. After going through Gateways, I am more confident in my ability to learn medicine and I am more confident in myself as a person. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? You’re already heading in the right direction by being at Gateways! There are going to be times of stress but there are also going to be many times of great joy! The support at Gateways is unlike any other. From the faculty and staff to your fellow classmates and medical students and even those of us who have graduated from Gateways, we are all rooting for you. There is a community of people doing their best to make sure you can be your best! You are not alone on this journey and Gateways will remind you of that. Priscila Cevallos Undergraduate University of Texas at Austin Medical School Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth - Class of 2023 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Since Gateways, I have been working at Boston Children's Hospital doing clinical research in Interventional Cardiology. My research focuses on reporting outcomes of a national quality improvement initiative to reduce patient radiation exposure in the catheterization lab. We are also working with developing countries to establish the first international cardiac cath registry for patients with congenital heart disease. Next, I will be starting medical school at Dartmouth in the fall! How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways exposed me to a year of medical school before actually starting! I was able to figure out how best to study and manage my time effectively, all without any other commitments outside of focusing on mastering the material. The clinical experience offered in the program coupled with the classes on the social humanities of medicine put the scientific content we learned in a realistic context. The small class size allows for unparalleled individual student support throughout the year and while applying to medical school. Attending Gateways was the best decision I made! What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? My advice would be to think about what your future goals are and focus on filling any gaps that will help you get to where you want. Be focused, be kind, and never give up on your dreams! John Cotoia Undergraduate Johns Hopkins University Medical School Warren Alpert Medical School - Class of 2024 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? The year between Gateways and matriculating into medical school, I operated The Lieber Institute for Brain Development’s brain bank collection site in California as the Site Coordinator, curating a tissue repository for neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric research. It was humbling and empowering to be entrusted with the thoughts, dreams, and memories of other human beings. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? The Gateways program reinvigorated and fine-tuned my organization and time management skills as well as provided hands-on opportunities for patient and provider interactions. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Start the program full force (regiment your time and fiercely study) the first 2-3 blocks to find what study habits you like and produce results. Once the academic balance has been struck, make time for yourself every day, explore all the opportunities Brown and Providence provide, and cultivate your desired professional networks (shadowing, rec letters, research, etc.) that are brought to you by the program. Remember: you got this! Sam Craft Undergraduate Middlebury College – Class of 2014 Medical School Yale School of Medicine – Class of 2023 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? After graduating from Gateways in May of 2018, I worked as a clinical research assistant in emergency medicine at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence for the next year. There, I spoke with patients about our various studies, enrolling them if they were interested and eligible. The position appealed to me because it afforded me the opportunity to pursue a different type of scientific inquiry (I had exclusively done bench research before Gateways) while simultaneously allowing me to directly work with Providence’s incredibly diverse patient population. This past August, I began my first year at the Yale School of Medicine. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? For me, Gateways’ preparation was twofold. First, it taught me how to study like a medical student. In undergrad, my study strategies were unrefined and, in some cases, ineffective. Gateways helped me to realize the importance of contextualizing all that I learned. Rather than solely remembering collections of discrete facts, emphasizing where those facts fit into the bigger picture not only helped me to better recall the information during exams but also made it much easier to incorporate that knowledge into real-life clinical settings. Perhaps more importantly, however, Gateways helped me to get a better sense of what medical fields I might be interested in, through both the medical school coursework I took and the various shadowing opportunities available. While I am still undecided in what field of medicine I would ultimately like to enter, Gateways definitely gave me direction as to the types of experiences I am most interested in exploring during my preclinical years of medical school. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Hone your study strategies now. Do not be afraid to experiment, either; it took me nearly the whole first semester to figure out what methods worked best for me. Most importantly, though, have fun! My best memories from Gateways came from spending time with my classmates outside our studies: exploring Providence’s numerous neighborhoods and restaurants, playing intramural ice hockey, or spending an afternoon at the beach. Try to do at least one leisure activity every day. Ultimately, self-care is the most important factor in our successes as medical students and as physicians. Ahmed Elsayed Undergraduate Brown University Medical School Warren Alpert Medical School - Class of 2022 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Since I graduated Gateways, I began medical school at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. After my exposure to quality improvement research in Gateways, I was able to work on improving HCAHPS scores for Brown’s Internal Medicine department. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways gave me the tools necessary to be able to conduct effective and meaningful research-how to identify a problem, create a solution, and implement that solution. It also allowed me to feel confident as a student to take on the academic rigor of medical school. Gateways put me in a position to succeed. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? My main advice to current and future gateway students is too choose something you really enjoy to do for your capstone project. It is an opportunity to do meaningful work about something you care about and can potentially guide your interests and medical journey. Kailee Furtado Undergraduate University of California, Los Angeles Medical School University of Texas Southwestern What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? After graduating from Gateways in 2019, I worked as a Clinical Research Assistant in Rhode Island Hospital’s ER, and afterwards I worked as a Clinical Research Coordinator in Breast Imaging at BIDMC in Boston. I began medical school at UT Southwestern in August 2020, and I am currently preparing to start clerkships in January 2022 which is very exciting! How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways prepared me for the rigor of medical school by giving me the skills to handle the challenging curriculum, as well as provided me with early exposure to different medical specialties. Through Gateways, I was also able to begin learning about the social determinants of health and how they will affect my future patients, which I have continued to learn about throughout medical school. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? My advice to future Gateways students is to take advantage of all the resources that are available to you early on – the faculty are all rooting for you to succeed and will help you in whatever ways they can! Tyler Harder Undergraduate Cornell University Medical School Warren Alpert Medical School - Class of 2023 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? I spent the past year working as a clinical research assistant in the department of Emergency Neuroscience and the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways was the chance I needed to prove myself and provided me with an incredible group of advisors who pushed me to reach my full potential. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Build your team early. Find the people who bring out the best in you and who push you to be the best you can - most importantly - stay in touch with them. Alex Hodakowski Undergraduate Washington University in St. Louis Medical School Rush University Medical College - Class of 2024 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Following graduation, I returned as a clinical researcher coordinator in the department of Nephrology at Northwestern. I was able to return in a more senior position following the Gateways program. Although some of my research was cut short due to the COVID-19 pandemic, I was able to contribute to COVD-19 research investigating differences in patient outcomes and treatment practices on a national level. I was also able to resume various volunteer opportunities that I put on pause while I was at Brown. I am currently an M2 at Rush Medical College. I am involved in various different activities, including Rush Student Ambassadors, Peer Advising, and Peer Tutoring. I have an active role in a couple of different research groups, primarily focusing on different facets of social media use in orthopedic practice as well as orthopedic surgery outcomes and biomechanics research in sports and daily living. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways gives you the tools and resources to be successful in both the application process and in medical school. My time at Brown provided me with the self-confidence that I could handle the medical school material and also allowed me to thrive amongst a group of like-minded peers. The individualized advising and care that the Gateways faculty have for their students allows students to have a set of mentors not solely focused on their academic success, but rather their success in all aspects of life. Ultimately, Gateways is a unique opportunity to prepare yourself for medical school in an environment where the focus is to assist you in achieving your dreams in whatever way they can. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Embrace the journey! There will certainly be ups and downs but your classmates can be a rock for you through all of it as they are going through the same thing by your side. Enjoy Providence and allow it to ground you outside of the classroom. Amidst all of the craziness of school, some of the volunteer opportunities within Providence proved to be extremely rewarding. All of the staff care deeply about the students and they are willing to help however they can, all you have to do is ask! Sean J. Hollebeck Undergraduate University of Texas at Dallas What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Between graduating and starting medical school, I have been working at a private practice dental clinic that mostly serves Vietnamese patients in the DFW Metroplex. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways was incredibly valuable to me by helping me prepare for my future as a medical student and inevitably as a physician. I learned a great deal about the importance of holistic, team-based care and compassion in the healthcare industry from my time in Providence. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? The advice I pass down to future students of this program is to make sure you never lose sight of why you want to pursue a career in the healthcare world. The challenges of this field are innumerable and unrelenting, but if you allow your passion to stay with you, these challenges will be undemanding. Adam Howard Undergraduate Collin County Community College and University of Texas at Dallas Medical School Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine - Class of 2022 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Since graduating from Gateways, I have begun medical school and I look forward to continuing that pursuit next year. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? The art of healing through medicine entails much more than diagnosis and prescription. Human health is influenced by myriad emotional, spiritual, social, economic, and other environmental variables. Our respected faculty at Gateways helped us to understand these complexities both academically and practically through our work at community health centers. Those opportunities have empowered me to engage with my patients more holistically and to help them work comprehensively at improving their sense of wellness. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Live with purpose; always understand why you are doing what you are doing. Prioritize self-care. We must establish health within ourselves in order to share it with others. The right thing to do is always the right thing to do. The only treatment effective for 100% of patients is kindness. Christopher Koehler Undergraduate University of Southern California Class of 2017 Medical School Warren Alpert Medical School - Class of 2022 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? After graduating from Gateways, I attended medical school at the Warren Alpert Medical School and matched at Brown Emergency Medicine while serving as a TA for Gateways students. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? In order to grow as a person and medical school applicant, I wanted to find the optimal way to expand upon previous experiences. With a first-year medical school curriculum, community service, and leadership opportunities, Gateways was the ideal fit. The critical thinking, knowledge, and experience I gained as a Gateways student assisted me throughout the application process and preto do so during medical school. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Through the content and unrivaled personalized advising, Gateways is expertly organized to help you achieve your goals. Utilize the plethora of resources the program and university has to offer. Marissa Meyer Undergraduate UCLA Medical School A.T Still University School of Osteopathic Medicine (Arizona) - Class of 2023 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Since graduating from Gateways, I started my first year of medical school. Next year, as a part of my school's unique 1-3 program, I will be continuing my medical education at a CHC in Tucson. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways did an incredible job preparing me academically for medical school. I have not only seen a large majority of the information being taught, but I have also acquired study habits and test-taking skills that allow me to be confident in my academic abilities. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? My advice would be to use this time to experiment with different study techniques-- group studying, Anki, etc. I found by the end of the year I liked to study using many different methods, so you do not have to choose just one. In terms of stress management, find little things that make the long hours of studying better like a fun study group, and remember to take time to recharge! You will be more efficient in the end. Good luck! Kayla Peña Undergraduate Boston University Medical School Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? After graduating from Gateways in 2019 I worked as an emergency medicine clinical research assistant for no other than Rhode Island Hospital. My research focus was on improving opioid withdrawal treatments and emergency department substance abuse rehabilitation services. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? The Gateways program not only prepared me for the professional world, but also for the rigorous grind of medical school. My advice is don't be afraid to fail! What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? There will be times when you succeed and many others when you do not, and both are just as important. Learn from your mistakes, work hard, and have fun the whole while. Caroline Raymundo Undergraduate University of Washington Medical School University of Washington, MS1 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and do you have any upcoming plans? Since graduating from Gateways, I started working as a clinical research assistant in the Division of Dermatology at the University of Washington. I am investigating new tools for measuring quality of life in patients with cutaneous lymphoma. I also started my first year of medical school at the University of Washington in August of 2021! How did Gateways prepare you for your future? The community and education that I received from Gateways helped me flourish in medical school. Academically, I gained study habits that helped me learn the curriculum material efficiently. By studying more efficiently, I have more time to pursue other interests and things I enjoy like research and spending time with family and friends. The community and professors at Brown rekindled my desire to pursue medicine. Overall, Gateways gave me the tools, confidence, and community that I needed to flourish in my first year of medical school. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Focus on your academics only for the first few blocks! Experiment with different study techniques and see what works for you. Everyone learns differently. Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. The Gateways faculty want you to excel. After you are consistently getting the exam scores you want, stick to those study habits and allow yourself to explore other opportunities that Brown has to offer like research or volunteering. Also, cherish those weekends after exams! Take that time to relax, recharge, hang out with friends, and explore New England. Sheila Sharma Undergraduate B.S. in Psychobiology 2018 from UCLA What have you done since graduating from Gateways and do you have any upcoming plans? Since graduating from Gateways, I have been working as a Post-Master’s Research Fellow in a cardiovascular translational lab under Dr. Alan Morrison. Our lab focuses on studying immune mediated vascular remodeling by way of macrophage-specific processes in atherosclerotic calcification and in angiogenesis, specifically within diabetic and aging contexts. I am looking forward to continuing to hone my research skills and academic development over the upcoming year while applying to medical school. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Because of the rigorous and extensive curriculum, I was able to develop myself both academically and emotionally in a manner that has changed the trajectory of my life. Academically, I learned concepts that continually surface in shadowing and research settings. Because of the time I dedicated during Gateways to mastering the curriculum, I am easily able to identify, reason, and ponder nuances of various scientific topics. Furthermore, I watched myself grow into the confident, poised student and researcher that I am today, ready to tackle any challenge that comes my way. Through Gateways, I found the joy in the learning process, and I am eternally grateful for my personal development. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? The personal and academic growth that you will achieve in this Master’s program is simply unparalleled. I would advise any current or prospective student to trust the process and to be unafraid to pursue mastery through implementing new study techniques, collaborating with peers, and seeking faculty and alumni guidance. Dream big, live in the present, wholeheartedly enjoy your free time, and study for the pursuit of knowledge rather than for prizes or grades, because if you are able to do so, then the positive outcomes will inevitably follow. The sky is the limit! Kenny Stamper Undergraduate University of Michigan Class of 2018 BS in Microbiology Medical School Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine Class of 2024 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and what are your plans next year? Since graduating from Gateways I spent a year doing clinical research at the Children's Hospital of Michigan in Detroit while applying to medical schools. Currently I am an M1 at Case Western Reserve University. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways played a critical role in my personal growth and maturity as I prepared for a career as a physician, and I owe much of my success within the med school application cycle to what I learned throughout this program. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? My advice to students: what sets Gateways apart from other programs like it is the small class size and ability to develop personal relationships with faculty. Take advantage of these opportunities to gain one-on-one mentoring, guidance, and help in classes. The faculty is comprised of wonderful people who only want to aid in your success; I cannot stress enough the importance of building these connections. Good luck! Lorelle Sun Undergraduate Cornell University Class of 2019 Bachelor of Science in Human Biology, Health, and Society; Minor: Health Policy Medical School Medical College of Wisconsin Class of 2025 What have you done since graduating from Gateways and do you have any upcoming plans? I am really passionate about health equity and caring for vulnerable populations. Since enrolling in medical school, I joined several organizations. One of them being Street Medicine Interest Group. Every week, we go out and provide medical care and supplies to unsheltered, displaced individuals in Milwaukee. Many of these individuals seek help, but get lost in the system and are left to fend for themselves on the streets. We, as a society, have failed to serve our most vulnerable group and forgot to respect the humanity and dignity of the homeless community. As part of the Street Medicine team, we help these individuals get the care and resources that they need. Furthermore, at MCW, I'm starting an ongoing research project that seeks to find solutions for admitted homeless patients in the ER who get lost in the transition of care. How did Gateways prepare you for your future? Gateways definitely prepared me for my first year medical school curriculum. The transition from Gateways to medical school was a lot smoother for me. Through Gateways, I figured out how to study vast amounts of information more efficiently. In addition to the medical knowledge, I really appreciate Gateways for instilling into me the social lessons of medicine. Gateways really teaches their students to become healthcare providers that care for the socioenvironmental health of their patients. Because of Gateways, I've become a better social activist and advocate for the patients and community I serve. What advice do you have for the current/future students of Gateways? Stay humble and keep an open mind. Reach out and think deeply about the lessons your professors at Gateways are trying to teach you. They have a lot of experiences and wisdom that extend beyond the curriculum. Stay on top of your lectures; it's a lot harder to catch up on a weeks worth of lectures the day before exams. Trust me, I've been there. Finally, have fun! Build friendships and explore the world around you. It's hard to believe, but there's more to life than medicine. Enjoy every moment, even the struggle. I'm rooting for all of you! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Meet Our Grads Open details for Meet Our Grads Bookmark this Page