Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Gateways Program Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Search Gateways Program Admission Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care, and Research welcomes applications from academically promising, motivated students with an interest in the health sciences. Admission Brown Gateways to Medicine, Health Care, and Research welcomes applications from academically promising, motivated students with an interest in the health sciences. Eligibility The ScM program may be right for you if you: have completed, or are on track to complete, an undergraduate degree from a US college or university; have demonstrated professional promise for a career in medicine, through such things as: strong undergraduate performance (3.0 GPA, minimum), competitive MCAT score, community service, health-related experiences, or research; have completed premedical course requirements; demonstrate an interest in caring for diverse populations. Application Requirements All applicants must submit the following materials: Application via CollegeNET (ApplyWeb) Official MCAT scores (preferred within the last 2 years, January 2020 onward, see FAQ for submission instructions) 3 letters of recommendation A personal statement, plus one brief supplemental essay Curriculum vitae College transcript Application fee $100 (non-refundable) Application Process Interview Process Decision Process Tuition and Financial Aid Application Process Applicants are admitted on a rolling basis, but class size is limited—early submission is recommended. We will begin reviewing completed applications in January, so invitations to interview will start going out soon thereafter. We encourage you to complete your application in a timely manner, so that it is ready for review. The deadline for applications is June 1. Interview Process Select applicants will be invited by email to an interview. Interviews are conducted in person or via Zoom. Decision Process Interviewees will be notified of admissions decisions on a rolling basis. If admitted: early in the application season applicants will be given two weeks from the date of acceptance to accept their seat; later in the application season they will be given one week to accept or decline their seat. In addition to the reply form, a $500, non-refundable deposit must be paid to secure your seat. You will receive specific instructions upon decision. Tuition and Financial Aid Tuition and Fees The tuition rate for the Master of Science in Medical Sciences (ScM) Program for the 2022-2023 academic year is $59,917. For details regarding tuition and fees please see the 2022-2023 Master of Medical Sciences Cost of Attendance. A non-refundable enrollment deposit of $500 will be required to secure a seat in the program. This will be applied towards your first semester tuition. Financial Aid Students enrolled in Master’s programs may be eligible for federal direct student loans and other alternative loans. To be considered for any federal student loans, domestic students are required to submit a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). The FAFSA must be submitted at www.fafsa.ed.gov. Alpert Medical School's code for the FAFSA is E00059. Please visit the AMS Office of Financial Aid website for further information. Visit the Financial Aid Site The Gateways Program is housed in the Wexford Science and Technology building--a state-of-art facility in the heart of Providence's Jewelry District. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Faculty and Staff Outcomes Meet Our Grads Contact Us Diversity Curriculum Courses Capstone Project Clinical Sites Admission Student Life FAQs Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admission Open details for Admission Bookmark this Page