Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Government and Community Affairs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Community Affairs Government Relations Programs & Initiatives Neighbors Hub↗ Government and Community Affairs You are here: Home WHDC In-Kind Space Requests Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: America Scores Jamboree at Columbia Baker Field Athletic Complex Slide 2: Patrons of Friends of Morningside Park at Faculty House Slide 3: West Harlem Development Corporation Holiday Celebration at Miller Theater Slide 4: Patrons of Friends of Morningside Park at Faculty House America Scores Jamboree at Columbia Baker Field Athletic Complex Patrons of Friends of Morningside Park at Faculty House West Harlem Development Corporation Holiday Celebration at Miller Theater Patrons of Friends of Morningside Park at Faculty House Previous Next WHDC In-Kind Space Requests As part of the In-Kind Facilities and Services benefit in the West Harlem Community Benefits Agreement, the West Harlem Development Corporation (WHDC) is able to use part of its "In-Kind" fund to request the use of CU space on behalf of local community groups. Local community groups must be located in Manhattan Community District 9 (MCD9), which is defined as the area between 110th and 155th Streets and the Hudson River and an eastern boundary of Manhattan, Morningside, St. Nicholas, Bradhurst and Edgecombe Avenues. Our office (GCA) coordinates with the WHDC, and is therefore the name on these reservations; however, the initial request for space must be made through the WHDC. Once the reservation has been made, the local community group plans its event and our office sponsors it (on behalf of the University). Please note that the in-kind benefit covers room rental and associated services, not catering. All catering costs will be covered by the organization hosting the event. For each event, the in-kind benefit covers: Room charge Public safety AV/Tech Furniture Personnel To apply for in-kind space between January and June 2020, refer to the information on the WHDC's website here. Applications are due by Monday, December 2, 2019, at 5 PM. The Process Step 1: Twice a year, the WHDC solicits space requests from local community groups via their website and other communication efforts. Requests are made a semester in advance of the desired date. For example, a request for January 2019 – June 2019 would be submitted in November 2018. Step 2: The WHDC vets the requests and sends the approved ones to our office. Step 3: We submit the space requests to University Events Management (UEM). Step 4: Once UEM informs us of availability, or lack thereof, we notify the local community groups and connect them with the UEM sales manager who will be planning their event. (Community groups should not contact UEM in advance of receiving confirmation of their reservation from GCA. This minimizes confusion around the many space reservations UEM is managing.) Step 5: The local community group and UEM sales manager plan out the event. GCA signs the final contract. Frequently Asked Questions Which organizations can use the in-kind space benefit? Local community groups must be located in Manhattan Community District 9 (MCD9), which is defined as the area between 110th and 155th Streets and the Hudson River and an eastern boundary of Manhattan, Morningside, St. Nicholas, Bradhurst and Edgecombe Avenues. What out-of-pocket expenses should my organization expect to pay? Your organization will only be charged a fee if they opt to have food at their event. Am I allowed to use an outside caterer for an event? Our policy on outside catering changes per venue. In instances where an outside caterer is allowed, additional fees incur that are not covered by the in-kind benefit. Contact Information All requests for space through this process must be submitted to the West Harlem Development Corporation. For more information about GCA's role in this process, contact Phoebe-Sade Arnold. Quick Links Government Relations Community Affairs Programs and Initiatives A'Lelia Bundles Community Scholars Contact GCA Address: Office of Government & Community Affairs Columbia University 309 Low Library 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5915 Fax: (212) 854-7366 Email Us! The Office of Government & Community Affairs302 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close