Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Government and Community Affairs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Community Affairs Government Relations Programs & Initiatives Neighbors Hub↗ Government and Community Affairs Home Welcome to the Office of Government and Community Affairs at Columbia University Meet Our Staff The Office of Government & Community Affairs (GCA) is the University’s primary liaison with federal, state, and local government, as well as with residents, community leaders, and civic organizations in surrounding neighborhoods. GCA also manages Columbia Community Service (CCS), a program through which Columbia faculty and staff contribute to local non-profit organizations, and the Columbia Community Scholars Program. The office has special responsibilities with regard to development of the university's campus expansion in Manhattanville and the associated West Harlem Community Benefits Agreement. I Want To book icon Become a Bundles Scholar check-square icon Register To Vote star icon Become a Congressional Intern ticket icon Check Out Community Benefits sitemap icon Contact a Staff Member files icon Find a Document News October 06, 2020 Announcing the 8th Cohort of Bundles Scholars The new scholars have projects spanning from Harlem's education history to music habits during the COVID-19 pandemic. October 21, 2019 Welcome to the Seventh Cohort of Columbia Community Scholars! Congratulations to the seventh cohort of Columbia Community Scholars! The Columbia Community Scholars Program was developed to enable independent scholars to pursue their lifelong learning aspirations, whether it be completing an independent project or attaining skills in a particular area. The program allows Scholars in Upper Manhattan a formal opportunity to access University resources and participate in the intellectual life of the University through interaction with faculty, students and other visiting scholars. September 11, 2019 Join us at Community Day in Manhattanville - September 28th Another Community Day is upon us in Manhattanville. On September 28th a number of family friendly events will take place at the Lenfest Center for the Arts, The Forum, Jerome L. Greene Science Center and the Small Square. The day is organized in partnership with the Zuckerman Institute, Wellness Center, The Forum, Wallach Art Gallery, and School of The Arts and community organizations. The bulk of the events will take place between 12 p.m. and 4 p.m., however there will be some events starting as early as 11 a.m. and ending as late as 6 p.m. Read below for more information. More News Events There are no upcoming events. More Events Google Map Location The Office of Government & Community Affairs302 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close