Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Government and Community Affairs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Community Affairs Government Relations Programs & Initiatives Neighbors Hub↗ Government and Community Affairs You are here: Home Community Affairs Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: America Scores Students at Columbia's Baker Field Complex Slide 2: Centro Civico Cultural Dominicano Inc. hosts event at Earl Hall Slide 3: Columbia hosts 2018 NYC Economic Development Day America Scores Students at Columbia's Baker Field Complex Centro Civico Cultural Dominicano Inc. hosts event at Earl Hall Columbia hosts 2018 NYC Economic Development Day Previous Next Community Affairs The Community Affairs Unit of GCA supports the creation of an equitable ecosystem in Harlem and Upper Manhattan. The office seeks to create mutually beneficial outcomes for the university and community at large by fostering collaboration between university stakeholders, local residents, business owners, community based organizations and schools. This office also implements actions that can address structural inequality, with specific focus on how African American, Latinx and other populations of the African Diaspora have been disproportionately impacted by racism. Community Affairs is also the University's primary liaison to the West Harlem Development Corporation, a non-profit organization founded in 2009 by Columbia University and community stakeholders to implement the deliverables outlined in the West Harlem Community Benefits Agreement. Other deliverables of the WH CBA managed by this office include the A'Lelia Bundles Community Scholars, Connecting Youth Initiative, WHDC In-Kind Space Program and more. For more information contact: Flores A. Forbes Associate Vice President, Community Affairs [email protected] Phoebe-Sade Arnold Director, Community Affairs [email protected] Henry Danner Director, Youth Initiatives [email protected] Tatianna Jasmine Lyne Assistant Director, Community Affairs [email protected] Quick Links Government Relations Community Affairs Programs and Initiatives A'Lelia Bundles Community Scholars Contact GCA Address: Office of Government & Community Affairs Columbia University 309 Low Library 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5915 Fax: (212) 854-7366 Email Us! The Office of Government & Community Affairs302 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close