Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Government and Community Affairs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Community Affairs Government Relations Programs & Initiatives Neighbors Hub↗ Government and Community Affairs You are here: Home Government Relations Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Capitol Building in Washington, DC Slide 2: Capitol Building in Albany, NY Slide 3: New York City Hall Capitol Building in Washington, DC Capitol Building in Albany, NY New York City Hall Previous Next Government Relations The government relations unit of GCA serves as liaison between Columbia University and government at the federal, state, and city levels. We advocate on matters of importance and in support of all aspects of Columbia’s educational, research, and public-service missions. Our office monitors policy developments relevant to the University community and works with internal stakeholders to develop and articulate policy positions and priorities. We participate in the assurance of institutional compliance on governmental reporting obligations and represent Columbia University in its membership and participation with a number of New York State and federal associations. Additionally, we inform relevant members of the University community of important regulatory developments, and work to communicate the contributions made by Columbia and its peer institutions to government officials and decision-makers. Columbia University's Morningside campus is situated in the 10th Congressional District, 69th Assembly District, 30th State Senate District, and 7th City Council District. We work in partnership with our Government and Community Affairs colleagues at Columbia University Medical Center, which is situated in the 13th Congressional District, 72nd Assembly District, 31st State Senate District, and 10th City Council District. Here is a list of elected officials representing Upper Manhattan. For questions about GCA's government relations efforts or policy-related concerns, please contact: Loftin Flowers, Associate Vice President for Government Relations 212-854-3738 212-666-1952 Fax [email protected] Nathan Robb, Assistant Vice President for Government Relations 212-854-4611 212-851-7719 Fax [email protected] Matthew Orama, Assistant Director for Government Relations 212-853-2482 [email protected] Government Relations Quick Links Government Relations Homepage Lobbying Guidelines Higher Education Associations Voter Registration Congressional Internships Local Elected Officials Policy on Partisan Political Activities Helpful Resources Want to contact your representatives in Washington? Contact information can be found at the US Senate and US House of Representatives websites. Want to know when Congress is in session? View the US House and Senate Congressional Calendars. Want to search for a piece of federal legislation? Use THOMAS, the Congressional Legislative Search Engine Want to know when your New York legislators are in session? View the New York State Legislative Calendar. Interested in engaging elected officials or other policy makers on legislative matters? View our Policy Governing Lobbying Activities. The Office of Government & Community Affairs302 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close