Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Government and Community Affairs Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Community Affairs Government Relations Programs & Initiatives Neighbors Hub↗ Government and Community Affairs You are here: Home Connecting Youth Initiative Connecting Youth Initiative Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: The Connecting Youth Initiative (CYI) hosted a campus visit for students from the Urban Assembly School for Performing Arts Slide 2: CYI conducted workshop in partnership with the Living Redemption Youth Opportunity Hub to provide soft skill development for some of the youth and young adults who participate in their Fellowship Movement group. The Connecting Youth Initiative (CYI) hosted a campus visit for students from the Urban Assembly School for Performing Arts CYI conducted workshop in partnership with the Living Redemption Youth Opportunity Hub to provide soft skill development for some of the youth and young adults who participate in their Fellowship Movement group. Previous Next COVID-19 Update: CYI has gone virtual due to the COVID-19 pandemic. All outreach, supportive case management and workshops can be accessed via scheduled zoom sessions. If you are a young adult or community organization interested in scheduling an information session, please use this link to to get in touch and a staff member will respond within 24 hours to schedule a phone call or virtual meeting. Also we have organized this list of COVID-19 resources for youth and young adults. This list is updated regularly so please bookmark it and check back often. Program Overview The Connecting Youth Initiative (CYI) is a community and school-based outreach effort providing assistance to 16-24 year old’s in Harlem, Washington Heights and the South Bronx who have yet to graduate high school and are not employed. Additionally, CYI services those under 24 years old who have a high school diploma or equivalency, but are unemployed. CYI is managed by The Office of Government and Community Affairs at Columbia University, with the main objective of supporting participants with achieving their educational and employment goals. Through collaboration with local community-based organizations and schools, CYI staff work with under-served young people to identify barriers to their success and connect them with appropriate services and service providers that will address their needs. In addition, CYI participants may be: Navigating re-entry to the community Court involved Aging out of foster care Homeless CYI's school-based model provides outreach to youth who are enrolled in school but chronically absent, truant and/or at-risk of dropout or aging out. We assist participants with re-engaging in educational activities and obtaining employment opportunities. Program Offerings CYI participants receive assistance with Getting back on track for high-school completion in a NYC Department of Education public school Referral to High School Equivalency programs to prepare for TASC (formerly known as GED) examination. Referral to alternative school settings (such as DOE Transfer Schools, YABC programs, or Co-Op Tech and other vocational programs) Enrollment or re-enrollment in a college or university. Direct referral to workforce/employment skill development programs Access to paid internship and employment opportunities at Columbia University. Resume writing and building Assistance with job applications for positions outside of Columbia University Mock job interviews Additionally, CYI partners with organizations to facilitate workshops on-site for their program participants. Workshop topics range from soft-skill such as communication and active listening to hard-skills such as resume building, and financial planning. If you are interested in bringing a workshop to your organization please get in touch with us. Expand all Collapse all More Details CYI grew out of the Outreach to Disconnected Youth required by Columbia University’s community benefits and services related to the Manhattanville Campus Expansion. We determined a need for more intentional program to provide participants with support for re-engaging in educational activities and obtaining employment opportunities. Through a targeted outreach and case management process CYI staff are able to reach young people who are in need and connect them to a variety of service providers. Qualifying Criteria Age: 16-24 years old Education Status: Currently not enrolled in school or enrolled but in danger of dropping out or aging out Employment Status: Currently not working. Residential Status-Lives in Zip Codes: Manhattan:10025, 10026, 10027, 10029, 10030, 10031, 10032, 10033, 10034, 10035, 10037, 10039, 10040, Bronx: 10451, 10454, 10455, 10474 Staff Contacts Henry Danner, LMSW, Director of Youth Initiatives, Government and Community Affairs CYI Quick Links CYI Home CYI COVID-19 Resources Columbia University Neighbors Community Scholars Contact CYI Henry Danner, LMSW Director of Youth Initiatives Office of Government & Community Affairs Columbia University 309 Low Library 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4143 The Office of Government & Community Affairs302 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close