Skip to Content Office of Government and Community Relations Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home Government RelationsExpand Collapse section Federal Relations State Relations Local Relations University Government Relations Policies Before a Government Visit News and Events The Higher Education Act Helpful Links Community RelationsExpand Collapse section Safety and Security Living Here Be a Good Neighbor Campus Filming Office Helpful Links VotingExpand Collapse section Upcoming Elections New York State Deadlines Absentee Voting Voting Questions? Contact Us COVID-19 Search Search Home Voting In this Section Voting Voting is a constitutional right and a civic responsibility. When you vote, you are raising your voice. You are also keeping our tradition of government “of the people, by the people, for the people” alive for generations to come. Not registered? Not a problem. We’re here to make the registration process as easy as possible. The Federal Higher Education Act requires universities to make a good faith effort to have voter registration forms available to all students eligible to vote. To vote in New York State you must: be a U.S. citizen be 18 years of age by the date of the primary, general or other election live at your present address at least 30 days before an election not be incarcerated or on parole for a felony conviction not claim the right to vote elsewhere Upcoming Elections Link Visit the Onondaga County or the New York State Board of Elections for election dates and voter registration information. The General Election is Tuesday, November 8, 2022. Polls are open 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Register to Vote! Link The first step is to check your voter registration status. If you wish to register to vote in New York State, voter registration forms may be downloaded from the NYS Board of Elections. Once the form is completed, you need to print the form, sign and date it. Then, mail the form to your county board of elections. If you are a NYS resident and have a New York State DMV issued driver license, permit or Non-Driver ID, you may also submit a voter application online at the NYS DMV web site. Paper registration forms will be available in September until October 7 at drop boxes at Bird Library in the Library Commons, first floor; the Schine Student Center; and the Goldstein Student Center on South Campus. Fill out your form and drop it in the box. The office of Government Relations will deliver your form to the Board of Elections. Where should you vote? In your hometown or here in Syracuse at your campus address? The decision about where to register is up to you. You may want to think about how local politicians will impact the lives of Syracuse students; or, are there races back home that you feel strongly about? Would you prefer to vote in person on Election Day or would you prefer to apply for an absentee ballot and mail it back to your home county? Absentee Voting Link Voting in your hometown means you can participate in decisions at the local level. Learn more about the steps to take to cast your vote back home from here in The ‘Cuse, whether elsewhere in New York State or in another state. New Yorkers worried about in-person voting due to COVID can request an absentee ballot through an online portal. (Please note that you must already be registered to vote in New York State at your current address. If you are not registered to vote, or need to change your voter registration address, visit https://elections.ny.gov for more info.) New York State Deadlines Link Don’t miss an important deadline! For specific information, check at the Onondaga County Board of Elections or at the New York State Board of Elections. Early Voting Link New York State voters can vote in-person before Election Day. 2021 General Election Early Voting will be October 23 – October 31. Visit the Onondaga County Board of Elections for more information. Polling Locations Link To find your polling place, or to check your voter registration, visit the NYS Board of Elections website. COVID-19 State Election Alerts Link Visit vote411.org to find the latest state-by-state election changes due to the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic. Voting Questions? Link If you have questions about the process we can connect you to the experts who have answers! You may also reference the First Time Voters Guide: How to Cast Your Ballot in 7 Steps (by STEPS Student Training & Education in Public Service) https://www.publicservicedegrees.org/resources/student-voting-guide/ The guide includes: – How to vote in 7 steps, from registering to choosing a party affiliation to casting your ballot. – Unique resources for major first-time voter populations, including college students, LGBTQIA+ and minority communities, and voters with disabilities. – How to cast your vote while studying or living abroad. In this Section Upcoming Elections New York State Deadlines Absentee Voting Voting Questions? © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy