Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu About Getting Started Getting Started Rights and Responsibilities Confidentiality Concerns or Grievances Injuries and Temporary Conditions Resources Contact Us About Getting Started Getting Started Rights and Responsibilities Confidentiality Concerns or Grievances Injuries and Temporary Conditions Resources Contact Us Geisel Office of Student Accessibility Services Featured The Geisel School of Medicine is committed to helping students achieve their academic and career goals. We believe that students with disabilities are a crucial element of a diverse healthcare workforce, and it is our experience that many individuals with disabilities are qualified to study and practice medicine. Read More about Getting Started Click here to learn more or start a request for an accommodation. Accommodations are determined on an individual basis through an interactive process that includes the student and the Geisel Office of Student Accessibility Services (GSAS). Learn more Rights and Responsibilities Students' rights and responsibilities are a priority at the Geisel School of Medicine. Learn more at the link below. Learn more Concerns or Grievances Dartmouth is committed to providing equal opportunities for students, faculty, staff, and visitors with disabilities to access and participate in academic, social, cultural, and recreational programs at Dartmouth. Learn more Injuries and Temporary Conditions Temporary conditions such as broken bones, concussions, surgeries, or acute illnesses are generally not regarded as disabilities but may still be eligible for academic accommodation. Students are encouraged to contact GSAS to discuss possible remedies. Learn more Confidentiality Disclosure of disability is voluntary and protected under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Learn more Campus Resources for Students & Faculty Disabilities can occur or be identified at various stages in life. Learn about the campus resources that are available to help students with questions or concerns. Learn more Contact Us Office Address: 66 College Street Hinman Box 7005 Remsen Room 321 Hanover, NH 03755 Phone: (603) 646-5559 Fax: (603) 646-5559 Staff: William Eidtson, EdD Director of Learning Support & Accessibility Services William.Eidtson@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646-5559 Alayna Sharp, MSEd Learning Support & Student Accessibility Coordinator Alayna.K.Sharp@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646-5593 Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.