Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu MD Program Clinical Learning Sites Clerkship Opportunities Residency Matches Community Service Global Health Health Policy & Clinical Practice Research MD-MBA Program MD-PhD Program Equal Opportunity Learning Services Accessibility Services Clery Act Notification Apply How to Apply Admissions Requirements FAQ Tuition and Fees The Geisel Community Meet the Students Meet the Faculty Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement Life in Hanover Contact Us MD Program Clinical Learning Sites Clerkship Opportunities Residency Matches Community Service Global Health Health Policy & Clinical Practice Research MD-MBA Program MD-PhD Program Equal Opportunity Learning Services Accessibility Services Clery Act Notification Apply How to Apply Admissions Requirements FAQ Tuition and Fees The Geisel Community Meet the Students Meet the Faculty Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement Life in Hanover Contact Us Home The MD Program at Geisel The MD Program at Geisel At the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, we graduate the complete physician—one who excels in the basic sciences, delivers outstanding clinical care, discovers and shares new knowledge, and works to improve systems of healthcare delivery. Our curriculum builds the practice of medicine on a foundation of basic science. We develop outstanding clinical skills through experiential learning that spans all four years of training. Geisel students are trained in compassionate, patient- and family-centered care that addresses the “whole” patient. Community service is an integral part of the medical student experience and our students participate in a remarkable array of opportunities to serve our communities. Health care delivery science is integral to our curriculum and is taught throughout the first two years of the curriculum. Our students learn in and are part of a strong, supportive community. Recent Curriculum Enhancements At Geisel, we strive to incorporate student and faculty feedback in crafting a medical education experience for you to achieve your ultimate goals. Here are some of the recent developments in our curriculum. Point-of-care ultrasound is becoming a fact-of-life in many clinical settings and across several specialties. Recently, we have expanded on our successful pilot projects with new equipment and new programs that will help fill this needed training. We introduce the concepts and basic principles of ultrasound early in the curriculum and use it to study “living anatomy” and physiology, affording students the opportunity to practice procedures under ultrasound guidance. This augments our established elective experiences both in the preclinical as well as the clinical curriculum. Our first-year clinical skills course, On Doctoring, now employs simulated clinical experience for year 1 students to enhance the learning, observation, and feedback to students. We piloted this program over a year and are excited to now offer it for all year 1 students. The simulated clinics start in September of year 1 and run until April, and are held at the state-of-the-art Patient Safety Training Center at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. In April of year 1, students are paired with a clinical preceptor and stay with that preceptor through the end of year 2. This enhanced program allows for graduated development of clinical skills, decreases student travel time, ensures all students achieve basic competency, and transitions students to longitudinal clinical settings in year 1. We have expanded on the very popular second-year Patients & Populations course that does a “deep dive” into timely issues of great importance in healthcare. Working in teams, students delve into aspects of these topics ranging from hard data to the social context while exploring the effect on the healthcare system and on patients. Ultimately, this course is designed to give students the analytical tools to become effective change agents and to improve the systems in which they work. An important feature of this course is that it is highly flexible, responding to student interests and to the “hot topics” of the day. For example, the course recently explored the national opiate crisis, the ethics of international medical research, and the ongoing “vaccine wars.” We have also enhanced coverage of nutrition in our curriculum beyond the classic nutritional deficiencies, weight management, and wound healing. Nutrition is now covered through a highly-integrated approach ranging from assessing nutritional status to nutritional counseling, including the challenge of motivating change in individual behavior. We also provide opportunities for students to analyze issues such as psychosocial (e.g., the effect of advertising), societal (e.g., food availability/deserts) and public policy (local, national and international) issues. While these represent noticeable enhancements in the curriculum, we continuously review and update it in order to improve the student experience and respond to student needs. For example, we have adjusted the schedule of some of the first-year winter term courses at the recommendation of first-year students. Additionally, we are expanding the current interprofessional education opportunities with nursing and physician assistant students, because our students find them valuable and recognize the increasing importance of team skills in the current healthcare setting. Learn more about Geisel's MD curriculum. View the course catalog. Latest News Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 May 31, 2022 Cathy Morrow, MD, Named the 2022 New Hampshire Family Physician of the Year by the New Hampshire Academy of Family Physicians May 17, 2022 Geisel School of Medicine Student Fatima Haidar Receives Prestigious U.S. Public Health Service Award April 28, 2022 Geisel Celebrates Match Day 2022 March 21, 2022 Important Dates May 4, 2022: AMCAS Applications Open May 28, 2022: Applications may be filed with AMCAS Sept. 2022: Interviews Begin Nov. 1, 2022: AMCAS Submissions Close Dec. 1, 2022: Final Deadline for Secondary Applications Mar. 30, 2023: Interviews End Contact Us The Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth Office of Admissions 3 Rope Ferry Road Hanover, NH 03755-1404 Phone: (603) 646-5800 Fax: (603) 646-5767 Email: geisel.admissions@dartmouth.edu Quick Links Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth College Find People Clery Act Notification Biomedical Libraries Geisel Computing Affiliated Hospitals Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center White River Junction VA Medical Center California Pacific Medical Center Indian Health Service Medical Centers Contact 3 Rope Ferry Road Hanover, NH 03755-1404 Contact Us Connect with Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.