Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas Home » News 28 Apr 2022 2022 – 2023 Schweitzer Fellows Announced by Susan Green L to R: Paulita Lara Mejia ’25, Jewelia Durant ’25, Sandra Potter ’25, Eleonore Baughan ’25, Omar Sajjad ’25, James Feng ’25. Photo by Jason Romero D’23. Not pictured: Chinmayee Balachandra ’25, Allison Booher ’25, Marisa Diiorio ’25 Nine first-year medical students from the Geisel School of Medicine are among 23 new Schweitzer Fellows from New Hampshire and Vermont who will collaborate with community-based health and/or social service organizations to develop and implement yearlong projects that address the root causes of health disparities in under-resourced communities. Fellows work under the guidance of their community or academic mentor. The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, founded in 1940 and named after physician-humanitarian and Nobel Peace Prize recipient Dr. Albert Schweitzer, also provides leadership development, giving fellows an opportunity to serve as an inspiration to their peers, and others, to improve the health of those experiencing barriers to care. One of thirteen Schweitzer program sites across the U.S., the New Hampshire/Vermont Albert Schweitzer Fellowship was founded in 1996. Fellows are competitively chosen from graduate health professional and law students enrolled at institutions in New Hampshire and Vermont. To date, more than 350 Fellows have dedicated more than 50,000 hours of service to vulnerable communities through partnering with area community-based organizations Geisel’s 2022-2023 Schweitzer Fellows, service projects, and community partners: Paulita Lara Mejia Mejia’s project, SaludableMente, aims to address mental health concerns in the migrant farmworker population by building community between the farmworkers and Latinx/immigrant students at Dartmouth. Through cultural events and monthly group conversations, she will facilitate and participate in conversations about the immigrant experience, how to hold space together, and mental health and well-being. Community Partner: Project Salud James Feng and Omar Sajjad Feng and Sajjad are creating an integrated health education and enrichment program for adults with developmental disabilities. They aim to provide a diverse curriculum centered around personal health and recreational activities to inspire people to lead a healthy and active lifestyle. Community Partner: Visions for Creative Housing Solutions Marisa Diiorio and Jewelia Durant Diiorio and Durant project aims to better characterize and address food insecurity that is compounded by transportation barriers. They will work alongside the community to explore methods and pilot no-cost, mobile food delivery/supply services, which they hope may serve as a model for improving long-term food security and access in rural communities in the Upper Valley and beyond. Community Partner: Upper Valley Haven Eleonore Baughan and Sandra Potter Baughan and Potter will target equity in organ transplantation by increasing access to living kidney donors for under-resourced Upper Valley patients currently waitlisted for transplantation. Through the development of educational materials and social programming, they aim to increase the success of waitlisted patients finding a suitable kidney, thus greatly improving and lengthening their quality of life. Community Partner: Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Transplantation Surgery Team Chinmayee Balachandra and Allison Booher Balachandra and Booher seek to improve the availability of gender-based violence advocacy resources to the Upper Valley's foreign-born communities. They will carry out needs assessments, establish culturally competent curriculums for advocates in training, and work with community leaders to address the unique needs of survivors from immigrant and refugee populations. Community Partner: WISE Share this: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email Print Tags: Home-feature,Schweitzer Fellows Written by Susan Green Susan Green is a writer in the Geisel Office of Communications and Marketing. Search News Search this website Search for: Upcoming Events Pediatric Grand Rounds June 1, 2022 Department of Surgery Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis”, Parambir S. Dulai, MD June 3, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Neurology Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Pediatric Grand Rounds June 8, 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center Special Grand Rounds June 9, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Race Correction in Medicine: What are the Ethical Issues?”, Shawneequa Callier, JD, MA June 10, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 10, 2022 Psychiatry Grand Rounds June 14, 2022 Geisel in the News Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame Inducts Another Solid Class of Athletic Standouts – Local Sports Journal May 26, 2022 Vermont Man’s Search for a Kidney Complicated by New Rules for Organ Donations – Concord Monitor via Valley News May 24, 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – VPR via NHPR May 24, 2022 VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer – Targeted Oncology May 24, 2022 In New Hampshire Healthcare Market, It Pays to Shop Around – New Hampshire Business Review via Concord Monitor May 23, 2022 My Tweets Geisel School of Medicine About Us Our Teaching Hospitals Admissions Support the School Alumni Contact For The Media Media Resources Media Contacts More Dartmouth news sites Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.