Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu Research Project 1: Childhood Immune Function Project 2: Exposure, Growth, and Neurodevelopment Project 3: Placental Biomarkers Community Outreach and Translation Resources Events For Participants Quick Links Contact Us Research Project 1: Childhood Immune Function Project 2: Exposure, Growth, and Neurodevelopment Project 3: Placental Biomarkers Community Outreach and Translation Resources Events For Participants Quick Links Contact Us Children's Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center at Dartmouth Featured Doctors Encourage Arsenic Testing For Private Well Owners In Dartmouth Study Dr. Carolyn Murray is cited in a recent article regarding arsenic testing in private wells. You can read the article here. Dr. Karagas Speaks at Impacts of Toxic Metals on Children’s Health Featured as a guest panelist at the Impacts of Toxic Metals on Children’s Health seminar, sponsored by the EWG, EDF, Consumer Reports, and Healthy Babies Bright Futures. The event took place on May 26, 2021. Children’s Environmental Health and Disease Research Center The Dartmouth Children's Health Center grant is jointly funded by the National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences and the US Environmental Protection Agency. Read More about Children’s Environmental Health and Disease Research Center Childhood Immunity Looking at the effects of common exposures for mothers and infants and their susceptibility to allergy, atopy, and infection. Read more. Environmental Contaminants, Growth, And Neurodevelopment Investigating food and water as sources of arsenic exposure in pregnant women and children and the effects on child growth and development. Read more. Placenta The placenta can be used to define the environment the fetus encounters, to understand the causes and mechanisms of a variety of health outcomes in children, and to detect at-risk children. Read more. Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.