Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas In the News 26 May 2022 Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame Inducts Another Solid Class of Athletic Standouts – Local Sports Journal by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Doctor and multi-sport star Calvin Johnson ’81, Geisel, ’85 is featured in an article about being inducted into the Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame honorary class of 2022. Johnson was named All-Academic majoring in biochemistry and as a premed student. 24 May 2022 Vermont Man’s Search for a Kidney Complicated by New Rules for Organ Donations – Concord Monitor via Valley News by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Sandra Potter, Geisel ’25, and Eleonore Baughan, Geisel ’25, are quoted in an article about the difficulties associated with organ donation in northern New England. Potter and Baughan are hoping to establish a “donor champion program” that connects volunteers with patients to help them search for a donor. 24 May 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – VPR via NHPR by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Continued coverage of comments by Kay Jankowski, an associate professor of psychiatry, in an article about trauma-informed care for children—an approach that focuses less on punishment, and more on understanding why a child might act a certain way in stressful situations and preventing them from repeating behavior that could harm themselves or others. 24 May 2022 VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer – Targeted Oncology by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Features comments by Randolph J. Noelle, a professor of microbiology and immunology, in a review about the role of VISTA (V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T-cell activation) as a promising target in cancer immunotherapy. “VISTA is an exciting new target on its own and in combination with other checkpoint inhibitors,” Noelle said. “VISTA can control the steady-state activity of the resting immune system and should allow for heightened antitumor immune response.” 23 May 2022 In New Hampshire Healthcare Market, It Pays to Shop Around – New Hampshire Business Review via Concord Monitor by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Continued coverage of comments by Elliot Fisher, professor of the Dartmouth Institute, medicine, and community and family medicine, in an article about the great cost variation between New Hampshire’s health care organizations. Fisher states that higher costs of care are almost always passed on to patients. “All of it is either passed on in terms of the price they pay through their high-deductible health plan because they have to pay the first perhaps five or ten thousand dollars,” Fisher said. “Otherwise, it’s built into their premiums.” 23 May 2022 Postpolypectomy Bleeding: Does Prophylactic Clipping Reduce Risk in Anticoagulant-Treated Patients? – Medscape via MD Edge by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Continued coverage of comments by Heiko Pohl, a professor of medicine and of the Dartmouth Institute, about a study on the removal of colonic polyps. 23 May 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – NHPR by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Features Kay Jankowski, an associate professor of psychiatry, in an article about trauma-informed care for children—an approach that focuses less on punishment, and more on understanding why a child might act a certain way in stressful situations and preventing them from repeating behavior that could harm themselves or others. 22 May 2022 In New Hampshire’s Highly Variable Health Care Market, It Pays to Shop Around – Concord Monitor by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Quotes Elliot Fisher, professor of the Dartmouth Institute, medicine, and community and family medicine, in an article about the great cost variation between New Hampshire’s health care organizations. Fisher states that higher costs of care are almost always passed on to patients. “All of it is either passed on in terms of the price they pay through their high-deductible health plan because they have to pay the first perhaps $5- or $10,000 dollars,” Fisher said. “Otherwise, it’s built into their premiums.” (Picked up by Valley News, and others.) 20 May 2022 Here’s Why Seacoast Media Group and Union Leader are Working on a Series Together – Foster’s Daily Democrat by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Features comments by William C. Torrey, the Raymond Sobel Professor of Psychiatry, interim chair of psychiatry, and professor of the Dartmouth Institute, in an article about the treatment of mental illness in the U.S. “The core issue with children, adolescents, and adults is that psychiatric illnesses are extremely common, they’re very painful and they sometimes can be disabling and even deadly,” Torrey said. 18 May 2022 Did Researchers Really Uncover the Cause of SIDS? – The Scientist by Geisel Communications in In the News Read article – Eugene E. Nattie, professor emeritus of molecular and systems biology, is quoted in an article about the challenges of communicating nuanced research in the era of social media. Nattie expressed reservations about a study that found a potential link between a biomarker and a greater risk of SIDS (sudden infant death syndrome). Nattie’s reservations echoed a newsletter by economist Emily Oster that argues that the study has been vastly exaggerated to the point of being misleading. 1 2 3 … 225 Next Search News Search this website Search for: Dartmouth Medicine Magazine Upcoming Events Pediatric Grand Rounds June 1, 2022 Department of Surgery Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis”, Parambir S. Dulai, MD June 3, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Neurology Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Pediatric Grand Rounds June 8, 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center Special Grand Rounds June 9, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Race Correction in Medicine: What are the Ethical Issues?”, Shawneequa Callier, JD, MA June 10, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 10, 2022 Psychiatry Grand Rounds June 14, 2022 Geisel in the News Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame Inducts Another Solid Class of Athletic Standouts – Local Sports Journal May 26, 2022 Vermont Man’s Search for a Kidney Complicated by New Rules for Organ Donations – Concord Monitor via Valley News May 24, 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – VPR via NHPR May 24, 2022 VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer – Targeted Oncology May 24, 2022 In New Hampshire Healthcare Market, It Pays to Shop Around – New Hampshire Business Review via Concord Monitor May 23, 2022 My Tweets Geisel School of Medicine About Us Our Teaching Hospitals Admissions Support the School Alumni Contact For The Media Media Resources Media Contacts More Dartmouth news sites Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.