Geisel School of Medicine The Campaign Educate Complete Physicians Center for Global Health Equity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Scholarships Medical Education and Student Programs Strengthen Healthcare Systems Center for Global Health Equity Center for Technology and Behavioral Health The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice Innovate to Overcome Cancer C. Everett Koop Institute Children’s Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center Immunotherapy Norris Cotton Cancer Center Precision Medicine Research Build the Foundation for Children’s Health C. Everett Koop Institute Children’s Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center Lung Biology Center Why Geisel Stories News Videos Ways to Give Health Leaders Circle Planned Giving Give Now The Campaign Educate Complete Physicians Center for Global Health Equity Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Scholarships Medical Education and Student Programs Strengthen Healthcare Systems Center for Global Health Equity Center for Technology and Behavioral Health The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice Innovate to Overcome Cancer C. Everett Koop Institute Children’s Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center Immunotherapy Norris Cotton Cancer Center Precision Medicine Research Build the Foundation for Children’s Health C. Everett Koop Institute Children’s Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research Center Lung Biology Center Why Geisel Stories News Videos Ways to Give Health Leaders Circle Planned Giving Give Now We seek a healthier, more resilient future. Learn how Geisel is responding to COVID-19. Dartmouth and its Geisel School of Medicineare forging that future. We invite you to join us in this call to lead. Read more... Dartmouth, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health Launch Major Cancer Research Institute A $25 million gift to Dartmouth and Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health from Dorothy Byrne, a long-time supporter of cancer research and patient care, will establish a robust, interdisciplinary cancer research institute to leverage the innovation, entrepreneurship, and collaboration that is deeply embedded in the Norris Cotton Cancer Center (NCCC). Read More Give Now Campaign Goals As a core part of The Call to Lead campaign, Geisel seeks $200M in new philanthropic support to advance the following areas: Educate Complete Physicians Learn More Strengthen Healthcare Systems Learn More Innovate to Overcome Cancer Learn More Build the Foundation for Children’s Health Learn More $180 Million for a Healthy, Resilient, Equitable Future More than 3,700 alumni, parents, and friends have answered Dartmouth’s ongoing “Call to Lead” campaign with gifts to the medical school, bringing it within reach of its $207-million goal. Click “Read More” to watch the video. Read More Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn how you can help advance diversity, equity, and inclusion at Geisel. Learn More News $180 Million for a Healthy, Resilient, Equitable Future by Farah Doyle Educate Complete Physicians, Sibling - Scholarships October 7, 2021 ... The Ripple Effect by Farah Doyle Build the Foundation for Children’s Health October 22, 2020 ... Alumni Gifts to Support Innovation in Cancer Prevention, Treatment by Farah Doyle Innovate to Overcome Cancer October 22, 2020 ... Levy Gift Supports Innovations in Care for the Seriously Ill by Farah Doyle Strengthen Healthcare Systems September 9, 2020 A $1-million gift has helped launch the Susan & Richard Levy Health Care Delivery Incubator, a joint initi... Alumnae Come Full Circle with the Centennial Circle by Farah Doyle Educate Complete Physicians September 9, 2020 ... Gift Helps to Launch Dartmouth Health Care Foundations by Farah Doyle Strengthen Healthcare Systems September 9, 2020 ... $7M in Gifts for Global Health Equity by Farah Doyle Educate Complete Physicians September 2, 2020 Philanthropic gifts from four families totaling $7 million will support health equity programs across Dartmout... $11 Million Gifts for Scholarships by Farah Doyle Educate Complete Physicians September 2, 2020 A new $10 million gift commitment from a Dartmouth medical school alumnus is the third-largest gift in the sch... 1259 Donations 1259 Donations 1259 Donations 1259 Donations Featured Priorities Center for Global Health Equity by Timothy Good Priorities, Sibling - CTBH, Sibling - Medical Education, Sibling - Scholarships, Sibling - TDI, Supporting - ECP, Supporting - SHS, Trending January 16, 2020 Immunotherapy by Timothy Good NCCC Contact, Priorities, Sibling - CDRC, Sibling - CEKI, Sibling - Genomics, Sibling - NCCC, Supporting - IOC, Trending January 16, 2020 Scholarships by Timothy Good Priorities, Sibling - CGHE, Sibling - Medical Education, Supporting - ECP, Trending January 16, 2020 Why Geisel | Contact Us | Give Now Office of Development One Medical Center Drive, HB 7070 Lebanon, NH 03756-0001 geisel.development@dartmouth.edu 603-653-0700 Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline