Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas Insider 03 Mar 2020 Coronavirus Information from Dartmouth and Dartmouth-Hitchcock by Derik Hertel in News Dartmouth officials are monitoring guidelines concerning the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in order to provide up-to-date information on evolving recommendations from the federal Centers for Disease Control and the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services. For more information visit Dartmouth’s COVID-19 Information site. Click here for Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center’s COVID-19 information. 06 Feb 2020 Lifelines: Call for Editorial Board Members by NonPerson Geisel Web Service Acct in Insider Lifelines is a journal for literature and art in medicine started by Sai Li MED ’06 and first published in the fall of 2004. Lifelines has featured work by Guggenheim Fellows, winners of the William Carlos Williams Poetry Competition, physicians, medical students, faculty, and undergraduates, as well as from new authors and artists. We are currently seeking members to join our editorial board. We will have two separate boards for artwork and written work. 05 Feb 2020 Remembering Susan Harper, MD, Former Assistant Dean for Medical Education by Susan Green in News Susan Harper MED ’84, died on Wednesday, January 29 in Hanover, NH. Harper served as an assistant dean for medical education and residency advisor at Geisel until 2018. For nearly 30 years she guided medical students through an often-stressful process of moving from medical school to residency. 19 Dec 2019 SAVE THE DATE: 2020 Geisel Martin Luther King, Jr. Health Equity Day – Jan. 24 & 25 by NonPerson Geisel Web Service Acct in Insider This year’s Geisel MLK celebration will focus on bringing a social justice and equity lens to addiction, fostering awareness of harm reduction and health promotion, offering hope to those struggling with addiction and engaging with community efforts to envision paths toward healing. 05 Dec 2019 Second Annual Sarcoma Spin-a-thon Feb. 23 by Geisel Communications in Insider Ride Hard Give Back is an indoor cycling fundraising event to support sarcoma cancer research at Norris Cotton Cancer Center. The event will be held on Sunday, February 23, from 9:00 AM to noon at the CCBA Witherell Recreation Center in Lebanon. Registration is required. Please see the poster below for more information. 10 Oct 2019 Mary Jo Turk Named the O. Ross McIntyre, MD, Professor by Lauren Seidman in Press Release Mary Jo Turk, PhD, has been named the O. Ross McIntyre, MD, Professor at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Turk, a professor of microbiology and immunology and co-director of the Immunology and Cancer Immunotherapy Program at Dartmouth’s Norris Cotton Cancer Center, joined the faculty of Dartmouth’s medical school 15 years ago and conducts pioneering research on the complex interactions between the immune system and cancer. 08 Oct 2019 Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates Iconic White Coat Ritual by Susan Green in News On October 5, members of the Geisel School of Medicine Class of 2023 were welcomed into the profession of medicine during the school’s annual White Coat ceremony—an important ritual for first-year medical students. 03 Oct 2019 Nicole Borges Named Chair of the Department of Medical Education by Susan Green in Press Release Nicole J. Borges, PhD, a professor of neurobiology and anatomical sciences at the University of Mississippi Medical Center, has been named Chair of the Department of Medical Education at Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine. Borges, a health psychologist with over 20 years of experience in medical education, is recognized nationally for her scholarly approaches to student and faculty advancement. 02 Oct 2019 Gerber Named the Inaugural Kenneth E. and Carol L. Weg Distinguished Professor by Lauren Seidman in Research Scott A. Gerber, PhD, professor of molecular and systems biology and of biochemistry and cell biology at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, and program director of the Cancer Biology and Therapeutics Research Program at Dartmouth’s Norris Cotton Cancer Center, has been named the Kenneth E. and Carol L. Weg Distinguished Professor. 26 Sep 2019 O’Toole Named the Elmer R. Pfefferkorn, PhD, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology by Timothy Dean in Research George O’Toole, PhD, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine, has been named the Elmer R. Pfefferkorn, PhD, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology at Geisel. The appointment recognizes O’Toole’s outstanding contributions to microbiology and immunology both as a scientist and mentor to students over his 20-year career at Dartmouth. 1 2 3 … 21 Next Search News Search this website Search for: Upcoming Events Pediatric Grand Rounds June 1, 2022 Department of Surgery Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis”, Parambir S. Dulai, MD June 3, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Neurology Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Pediatric Grand Rounds June 8, 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center Special Grand Rounds June 9, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Race Correction in Medicine: What are the Ethical Issues?”, Shawneequa Callier, JD, MA June 10, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 10, 2022 Psychiatry Grand Rounds June 14, 2022 Geisel in the News Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame Inducts Another Solid Class of Athletic Standouts – Local Sports Journal May 26, 2022 Vermont Man’s Search for a Kidney Complicated by New Rules for Organ Donations – Concord Monitor via Valley News May 24, 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – VPR via NHPR May 24, 2022 VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer – Targeted Oncology May 24, 2022 In New Hampshire Healthcare Market, It Pays to Shop Around – New Hampshire Business Review via Concord Monitor May 23, 2022 My Tweets Geisel School of Medicine About Us Our Teaching Hospitals Admissions Support the School Alumni Contact For The Media Media Resources Media Contacts More Dartmouth news sites Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.