Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas Home » News 14 Mar 2017 Geisel Continues to Rank Among Nation’s Top Medical Schools by Derik Hertel The Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth rose in the most recent U.S. News & World Report Best Medical School rankings. In the rankings released on March 14, Geisel rose to #35 in the Research rankings and #27 in the Primary Care rankings, up from #40 and #45 respectively and placing it in the top quartile of all medical schools nationally. U.S. News & World Report ranks medical schools in two categories—Research and Primary Care—using multiple indicators. The Research ranking includes National Institutes of Health research data, while the Primary Care ranking includes the proportion of recent graduates entering primary care specialties in their residencies. Both utilize weighted data including peer assessments. “We are excited that Geisel continues to be ranked among the best medical schools in the country,” said Duane Compton, PhD, interim dean of the Geisel School of Medicine. “This is a testament to the strengths of our faculty and their dedication to our research and education enterprises.” Nationally, the need for primary care and health care delivery science expertise continues to grow, propelled by a growing and aging population. A report by the Association of American Medical Colleges shows that by 2025, there will be a shortfall of between 14,900 and 35,600 primary care physicians in the U.S. “At Geisel, we focus on training the complete physician—one who excels in the basic sciences, delivers outstanding clinical care, discovers and shares new knowledge, and works to improve systems of health care delivery,” said Greg Ogrinc, MD, interim senior associate dean for medical education. “This foundation, along with our emphasis on compassionate, patient- and family-centered care that addresses the ‘whole’ patient, means that our students are well prepared to take on the many health care challenges our country faces.” About the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth Founded in 1797, the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth strives to improve the lives of the communities it serves through excellence in learning, discovery, and healing. The Geisel School of Medicine is renowned for its leadership in medical education, health care policy and delivery science, biomedical research, global health, and in creating innovations that improve lives worldwide. As one of America’s leading medical schools, Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine is committed to training new generations of diverse leaders who will help solve our most vexing challenges in health care. Share this: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email Print Tags: education,rankings,research,US News rankings Written by Derik Hertel Derik Hertel is the Director of Communications & Marketing at the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth. Contact Search News Search this website Search for: Upcoming Events Pediatric Grand Rounds June 1, 2022 Department of Surgery Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis”, Parambir S. Dulai, MD June 3, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Neurology Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Pediatric Grand Rounds June 8, 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center Special Grand Rounds June 9, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Race Correction in Medicine: What are the Ethical Issues?”, Shawneequa Callier, JD, MA June 10, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 10, 2022 Psychiatry Grand Rounds June 14, 2022 Geisel in the News Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame Inducts Another Solid Class of Athletic Standouts – Local Sports Journal May 26, 2022 Vermont Man’s Search for a Kidney Complicated by New Rules for Organ Donations – Concord Monitor via Valley News May 24, 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – VPR via NHPR May 24, 2022 VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer – Targeted Oncology May 24, 2022 In New Hampshire Healthcare Market, It Pays to Shop Around – New Hampshire Business Review via Concord Monitor May 23, 2022 My Tweets Geisel School of Medicine About Us Our Teaching Hospitals Admissions Support the School Alumni Contact For The Media Media Resources Media Contacts More Dartmouth news sites Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.