Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu Program Doctoral Program (PhD) Masters Programs (MS) Why QBS? People Faculty and Staff Featured Faculty James O’Malley, PhD Diane Gilbert-Diamond, ScD Scott Gerber, PhD Students Masters Students (MS) 2021 Masters Students 2020 Masters Students Doctoral Students (PhD) 2021 PhD Students 2020 PhD students Student Profiles MS Alumni PhD Alumni Admissions APPLY to QBS Requirements Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Resources Program resources Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Local community links Contact us Program Doctoral Program (PhD) Masters Programs (MS) Why QBS? People Faculty and Staff Featured Faculty James O’Malley, PhD Diane Gilbert-Diamond, ScD Scott Gerber, PhD Students Masters Students (MS) 2021 Masters Students 2020 Masters Students Doctoral Students (PhD) 2021 PhD Students 2020 PhD students Student Profiles MS Alumni PhD Alumni Admissions APPLY to QBS Requirements Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Resources Program resources Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Local community links Contact us Home Program Master of Science degree in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Master of Science degree in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Become a trailblazer in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences at Dartmouth Dartmouth’s Master of Science degree in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences enables graduates to step confidently into leadership roles and immediately make an impact in health care, academia, biomedicine, population health, and big data. The QBS degree is intended for full-time study with an average time to completion of 15 months. Students further specialize their degree in one of three leading areas in the field – Health Data Science, Epidemiology, or Medical Informatics. The MS degree in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences is unrivaled in its academic excellence, providing students with an interdisciplinary and collaborative environment that challenges them to innovate across disciplines for the most effective outcomes. To get started, request more information or submit your application. Health Data Science concentration Health Data Science is one of the most critical and fastest-growing fields in both the private sector and academic world. QBS's distinctive program emphasizes rigorous training in biostatistics, data visualization and wrangling, and machine learning aided by important problems from health and health care. It focuses on complex modeling to predict outcomes for disease and to evaluate the efficacy of patient treatment plans and other health care interventions, helping to improve organizational efficiency and quality of patient care. Dive deeper into our Health Data Science concentration coursework and requirements. Epidemiology concentration The Epidemiology concentration focuses on the study of the distribution and determinants of disease in humans. It is a focus that is foundational to overall public health through the identification of health hazards and patterns of disease. QBS's innovative epidemiology program emphasizes rigorous quantitative training in epidemiological methods that is supported by cross-training in biostatistics and informatics. The field of epidemiology is rapidly expanding with significant growth occurring in biomedical research and nonprofit organizations. Learn more about the engaging academic experience in the Epidemiology concentration. Medical Informatics concentration The Medical Informatics concentration tackles data challenges and opportunities using a multi-pronged approach that reflects the location of the field at the intersection of information science, data science, biostatistics, and health care. QBS's unique medical informatics program emphasizes rigorous training in informatics applied to medicine by building off solid foundational training in data science, biostatistics, and epidemiology. It analyzes how to put medical treatments and technologies into the most efficient use for patient care in clinical and research settings. Explore more about the curriculum and opportunities in the Medical Informatics concentration. QBS Master’s degree for Dartmouth PhD students The QBS master’s degree is offered internally to PhD students at Dartmouth who are enrolled in a program other from QBS. Students interested in applying for this program should obtain proper permission from their advisor and their program. Find out more about the MS degree in QBS for Dartmouth PhD students. 4+1 program QBS offers a 4+1 option to Dartmouth undergraduates, allowing students to complete their Master's degree in 12 months (1 year) after earning their Dartmouth undergraduate degree (4 years). Learn more about this accelerated Master's degree option. Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.