Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu Student Resources COVID-19 Info and Updates Prospective Students Admissions Financial Aid Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE) Medical Student for a Day New Students AMP pre-matriculation checklist Orientation Canvas Page Current Students Geisel Student Handbook Medical Education Clinical Education Calendars Facesheets Co-Curricular Applications Shadowing Application Visiting Students Services Advising Coaching Program Career Development (CiM) M2-M4 Advising Residency Advising Learning Support and Student Accessibility Services Peer Tutoring Program Student Wellness Geisel Counseling Services Geisel Connections Dick’s House Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE) Financial Aid Student Records (Registrar) Student Life Facilities Hanover Campus DHMC Campus Biomedical Library Programs/Student Groups Organizations Events New Student Orientation Geisel Medical Student Annual Poster Presentation White Coat Ceremony Mini Med School Transition Ceremony Match Day Geisel Class Day Dartmouth College Commencement Links Geisel Student Handbook Staff Information Geisel on Call Crisis Resources Mistreatment Policy Sexual Respect at Dartmouth Professionalism Reporting Student Resources COVID-19 Info and Updates Prospective Students Admissions Financial Aid Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE) Medical Student for a Day New Students AMP pre-matriculation checklist Orientation Canvas Page Current Students Geisel Student Handbook Medical Education Clinical Education Calendars Facesheets Co-Curricular Applications Shadowing Application Visiting Students Services Advising Coaching Program Career Development (CiM) M2-M4 Advising Residency Advising Learning Support and Student Accessibility Services Peer Tutoring Program Student Wellness Geisel Counseling Services Geisel Connections Dick’s House Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE) Financial Aid Student Records (Registrar) Student Life Facilities Hanover Campus DHMC Campus Biomedical Library Programs/Student Groups Organizations Events New Student Orientation Geisel Medical Student Annual Poster Presentation White Coat Ceremony Mini Med School Transition Ceremony Match Day Geisel Class Day Dartmouth College Commencement Links Geisel Student Handbook Staff Information Geisel on Call Crisis Resources Mistreatment Policy Sexual Respect at Dartmouth Professionalism Reporting Home Organizations Csc Community Service Committee "Never doubt that a small group of dedicated individuals can change the world... ...indeed, it's the only thing that ever has." -Margaret Mead Purpose The Geisel Community Service Committee (CSC) is a student-run organization dedicated to the involvement of medical students in community education and social service. The CSC sponsors a variety of student-run community service programs and provides a link between Geisel students and the surrounding community. Community service is an integral part of the Geisel experience. While the Geisel faculty will teach you the facts needed to become a competent physician, the most essential skills in medicine - caring, communication, and empathy - can also be cultivated and practiced in community service. The services students render are important to those served. In return, students gain practical experience honing skills while learning the essential value of the balance, perspective, and sense of belonging gained from making a meaningful connection with other humans in need. The CSC offers another lens through which to look at life, reminding us all that both medicine and life hold more joys and opportunities than medical school would suggest. Lastly, we'd like to encourage everyone to find some way to get involved during your time at Geisel. We're challenging you - look around, find something you're interested in, or start your own project! We're here to support you in any way we can, so don't hesitate to drop us a line and get plugged in. It's The 100% Challenge - we believe that every one of our year one and two students can participate in at least one service activity or project this year. So dive in! Ready, set, serve! We look forward to working with you, and we'd love to hear about your experiences. Jay Bader, Haider Ghiasuddin are the 2020-2021 student leaders and Tina Hoisington, advisor! Email us any time Geisel.community.service@dartmouth.edu and Tina.L.Hoisington@Dartmouth.edu Downloads Guidelines for Funding Requests Community Service Committee Funding Request Services Activities at Geisel Links Claremont Soup Kitchen David's House The Dermatones Diabetes Clinic Flu Clinics Good Neighbor Health Clinic Good Neighbor Health Clinic – GI The Haven Lifelines Opportunities Database (Authentication required.) Physicians for Human Rights Project Salud Rural Health Scholars Student Needs and Assistance Program (SNAP) Upper Valley Memory Café Upper Valley Human Rights Clinic Urban Health Scholars GNHC Vision Screening Clinic 2021 Community Service Food and Clothing Drive Student volunteers from Geisel School of Medicine collected 8 SUV's full of clothing and over 400 lbs of food for local charity organizations. Students placed 18 donation boxes around the local area including DHMC, Geisel, Dartmouth College, New London Hospital, local grocery stores, and apartment complexes. All donations were given to Listen Community Services and The Haven, two local charities who give free clothing and meals to families in need. The Clothing and Food Drive was started two years ago by Jay Bader, a medical student at Geisel School of Medicine. "When we first started this drive two years ago, we had 5 volunteers and 7 boxes placed around campus. At that time, we stored all of the donations in my car before dropping them off at the charities. Since then, we've made this drive into a yearly tradition, our group has grown to 16 student volunteers, and we've collected nearly 7 times as many donations. Although it was not easy to organize such a large drive, the amount of work it took was infinitely small compared to the number of donations we collected and the number of families we were able to help. Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.