Dartmouth Medicine The Magazine of the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth Home News & Articles Headlines Features Profiles Alumni Profiles Faculty Profiles Graduate Student Profiles Med Student Profiles Dean’s Letter Giving Art of Medicine Alumni News & Notes Past Issues About Staff & Contributors Contact Us Newsletter Sign Up Alumni Support Geisel Search Home News & Articles Headlines Features Profiles Alumni Profiles Faculty Profiles Graduate Student Profiles Med Student Profiles Dean’s Letter Giving Art of Medicine Alumni News & Notes Past Issues About Staff & Contributors Contact Us Newsletter Sign Up Alumni Support Geisel Search Features A Close, Supportive Community—Endocrinologist Val Galton Recalls her 60 Years at Dartmouth Val Galton has seen many changes at Geisel, but the school’s tightly knit community remains the same. Features All Together Now: Uniting Neuroscience Graduate Studies Across Dartmouth The new Integrated Neuroscience at Dartmouth graduate program brings together expertise and resources from across Geisel, Dartmouth-Hitchcock, and Dartmouth College. Features Munck-Pfefferkorn and Beyond Since 2016, the Munck-Pfefferkorn Grant Awards have supported faculty investigators launching new and innovative yearlong projects. Features Impacting Healthcare Policy at the Congressional Level: Q&A with Carrie Colla Carrie Colla is applying skills and experience honed at Dartmouth to help inform healthcare policy making in Washington, DC. Giving Endowed Professorships Help Geisel Research and Scholarship Thrive Stable funding from an endowed professorship has helped Bruce Stanton and colleagues develop new techniques and treatment approaches that significantly improve the lives of Cystic Fibrosis patients. Faculty Profile Coming Full Circle At Dartmouth, Amber Barnato has reconnected with her clinical roots and now heads the same institute that helped inspire her career in research. by Timothy Dean × Student Profile First, But Hardly the Last Falen Demsas ’22 is committed to leaving a place better than you found it. × Alumni Profile A Champion for Diversity in Medicine Dartmouth alumna Joyce Sackey is dedicated to helping others overcome cultural barriers to realize their dreams of becoming health professionals. × Grad Student Profile Making Connections To Alicia Barber, doing neuroscience research and being an advocate for the Alzheimer’s community go hand in hand. by Timothy Dean × Giving All the Difference in the World By establishing the Director’s Fund for the Center for Global Health Equity, Frank Virnelli hopes to strengthen the Center’s impact in responding to the needs of under-served communities. × Art of Medicine Carnatic Roots First-year Geisel student Chinmayee Balachandra carries on a family tradition. by Susan Green × More News Dean's Letter A Letter from the Dean Remarks from Dean Duane Compton, PhD about what to expect in this issue of Dartmouth Medicine and updates on the school. Headlines Touring Geisel’s Renovations A look at Geisel’s recently updated teaching and student spaces. Headlines William “Nick” Ryan Named Chief of Staff for Geisel Dean’s Office William “Nick” Ryan has been named the new Chief of Staff for the Dean’s Office and began his role in early 2022. Headlines Mentor Match Nineteen Science Scholars met their match in an October 18 ceremony designed to formally introduce them to each other and to their mentors. Headlines Geisel Kicks Off Strategic Planning Process On October 12, faculty, staff, students, and alumni from across the Geisel School of Medicine as well as other key stakeholders gathered for a half-day retreat to kick off the school’s 2021 Strategic Planning Process, which is expected to run through February 2022. Headlines Improving Health and Healthcare of Asian Americans Working as a quality improvement analyst in a community-based clinic in San Francisco’s Chinatown, after receiving a master’s degree in global health, Geisel medical student Ashley Yang ’24 came face-to-face with the healthcare needs of the city’s deeply rooted Asian-American population. Headlines Research Notes | Winter 2022 Recent research notes, studies, and findings from multiple departments. Headlines Faculty Notes | Winter 2022 Highlights of recent faculty achievements. 1 2 3 … 5 Next → Support Geisel Newsletter Subscription Sign up for our email newsletter. My Tweets 1 Rope Ferry Road Hanover, NH 03755-1404 Dartmouth Medicine About Past Issues Privacy Policy Newsletter Sign Up Contact Us Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Dartmouth Medicine. All Rights Reserved.