Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu About About Geisel History Our Mission & Vision Leadership Office of the Dean Senior Leadership Chairs & Center Directors Standing Committees Board of Advisors BOA Intranet Administration Office of Faculty Affairs Fiscal Office Information Technology Communications & Marketing Departments, Institutes, & Centers Diversity & Inclusion Logos/Downloads Visual Identity/Logos Geisel Template Downloads Teaching Hospitals Visiting Dartmouth Employment at Dartmouth Faculty Positions Alumni & Friends Admissions Education Degree Programs MD Program MD-PhD Program MD-MBA Program MD-MS Programs – The Dartmouth Institute Master of Public Health Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science (MHCDS) Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Programs QBS MS Program QBS PhD Program Data Science in Healthcare (Online Certificate Program) PhD – Biomedical Sciences (Graduate School) Education Offices Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education/CLPD Student Affairs Learning Services Students with Disabilities Liaison Committee for Medical Education Registrar Financial Aid Biomedical Libraries Research Departments, Institutes, & Centers Shared Resources Office of Sponsored Projects Clinical Trials Office Provost Office Office of Entrepreneurship and Technology Transfer Faculty Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Directory Faculty Positions at Geisel News Geisel NewsCenter Dartmouth Medicine Magazine Geisel in the News Geisel Insider For the Media Campaign About About Geisel History Our Mission & Vision Leadership Office of the Dean Senior Leadership Chairs & Center Directors Standing Committees Board of Advisors BOA Intranet Administration Office of Faculty Affairs Fiscal Office Information Technology Communications & Marketing Departments, Institutes, & Centers Diversity & Inclusion Logos/Downloads Visual Identity/Logos Geisel Template Downloads Teaching Hospitals Visiting Dartmouth Employment at Dartmouth Faculty Positions Alumni & Friends Admissions Education Degree Programs MD Program MD-PhD Program MD-MBA Program MD-MS Programs – The Dartmouth Institute Master of Public Health Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science (MHCDS) Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Programs QBS MS Program QBS PhD Program Data Science in Healthcare (Online Certificate Program) PhD – Biomedical Sciences (Graduate School) Education Offices Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education/CLPD Student Affairs Learning Services Students with Disabilities Liaison Committee for Medical Education Registrar Financial Aid Biomedical Libraries Research Departments, Institutes, & Centers Shared Resources Office of Sponsored Projects Clinical Trials Office Provost Office Office of Entrepreneurship and Technology Transfer Faculty Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Directory Faculty Positions at Geisel News Geisel NewsCenter Dartmouth Medicine Magazine Geisel in the News Geisel Insider For the Media Campaign Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth Featured Geisel Celebrates the Class of 2022 On May 28, Geisel's 99 MD graduates joyously gathered with family and friends to celebrate the close of their academic studies and the beginning of their careers as physicians. Read more... about Geisel Celebrates the Class of 2022 Class Day 2022 Video Congratulations to the Class of 2022! You can watch the entire Class Day 2022 Ceremony here. Watch video... about Class Day 2022 Video Gift Will Support the Development of New Therapies for Cystic Fibrosis Dartmouth researchers receive $1 million gift from the Flatley Foundation to develop new therapies for Cystic Fibrosis. Read more... about Gift Will Support the Development of New Therapies for Cystic Fibrosis Precision Cancer Prevention Research and Innovation The Byrne Family Cancer Research Institute at Dartmouth Cancer Center is bringing together passionate investigators from Dartmouth and Dartmouth Health to take a precision medicine approach to cancer prevention research. Watch video... about Precision Cancer Prevention Research and Innovation 2022 – 2023 Schweitzer Fellows Announced Nine first-year medical students from the Geisel School of Medicine are among 23 new Schweitzer Fellows from New Hampshire and Vermont. Read more... about 2022 – 2023 Schweitzer Fellows Announced Admissions The Geisel School of Medicine graduates the complete physician—one who excels in the basic sciences, delivers outstanding clinical care, discovers and shares new knowledge, and works to improve systems of healthcare delivery. Learn more about our top-ranked MD program and joint MD degrees, as well as our advanced degrees in biomedical science, and health policy and research. Learn more... Giving to Geisel Geisel is building a healthier, more resilient future for us all. Learn more about this vision and how philanthropy can help. Together, we will educate complete physicians, strengthen healthcare systems, innovate to overcome cancer, and build the foundation for children’s health. Join us . . . Recent News Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 May 31, 2022 Class Day 2022 Video May 25, 2022 State of the Medical School Address Video May 19, 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center The Dartmouth Cancer Center combines advanced cancer research at Dartmouth College and the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth with patient-centered cancer care provided at Dartmouth Health. The Dartmouth Institute The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice brings together clinicians and researchers to study health system performance and healthcare delivery. Dartmouth’s Master of Public Health degree is offered through the Institute. Center for Health Equity The Center for Health Equity brings together Geisel's educational, clinical, research, and outreach initiatives focused on medically underserved populations locally and around the world. 1 Rope Ferry Road Hanover, NH 03755-1404 Contact Us Media Contacts Quick Links Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth College Find People Admissions Biomedical Libraries Geisel Computing Board of Overseers Intranet Give Now Affiliated Hospitals Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center White River Junction VA Medical Center California Pacific Medical Center Indian Health Service Medical Centers Giving to Geisel Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.