Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu Faculty Postdoc Graduate Students ﻿Programs News Publications Initiatives & Resources Media Photos Video Calendar Contact Us Faculty Postdoc Graduate Students ﻿Programs News Publications Initiatives & Resources Media Photos Video Calendar Contact Us Department of Microbiology and Immunology Featured Gift Will Support the Development of New Therapies for CF A $1 million gift from John and Kate Flatley, to a team of investigators at Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine will provide essential funding to develop new and more effective therapies for people with Cystic Fibrosis (CF).... Read More about Gift Will Support the Development of New Therapies for CF Sharanya Sakar is named an International Graduate Mentoring Fellow! Sharanya Sarkar is a graduate student in the Molecular and Cellular Biology program from Calcutta, India... Read More about Sharanya Sakar is named an International Graduate Mentoring Fellow! Congratulations Dr. Turk on your recent success!! Researchers find immune cells that guard frequent site of cancer spread... Read More about Congratulations Dr. Turk on your recent success!! Welcome Welcome to the Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Giesel School of Medicine at Dartmouth... Read more about Welcome M&I Ranks Highly Once Again in NIH Funding M&I was 17th for national ranking for NIH grant funding, out of 96 ranked departments of Microbiology. Read more about M&I Ranks Highly Once Again in NIH Funding Congratulations to our Post Docs in M/I Roberto Alers-Velazquez (Leib Lab) was named to Cornell’s Rising Stars program Fabrice Jean-Pierre (O'Toole Lab) & Danielle Vermilyea (Hogan Lab) receive Fellowships from the Cystic Fibrosis Fdn. Study Reveals Mechanisms that Bacteria Use in Surface Sensing Read More about Mission Statement The Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Dartmouth believes that rigorous teaching and research in the fields of microbiology and immunology are integral to improving health and welfare on a global level. Through the programs in our department we are advancing our knowledge in the fields of infectious disease, inflammation, and immunity while training the next generation of scientists and physicians. The department values the contribution of diversity to a more just society and innovative science. We will not silently tolerate any form of discrimination in our department. We commit to immediate and ongoing actions to enhance representation and inclusivity and pledge to fight against racial and gender-based injustice both in academia and in the broader community. We resolve to listen, learn, and educate ourselves about the discrimination faced by people of color and all other under-represented groups. Our Department will take the following actions: Representation: We commit to increase representation in our community by recruiting, mentoring, and supporting under-represented groups at all levels of the department and to invite speakers from diverse backgrounds. Inclusivity: Within our department, we will implement policies that create opportunities for people from diverse backgrounds by promoting their voices and perspectives at departmental activities, such as retreats and career development events. Accountability: We will promptly hold accountable anyone who takes part in discrimination or harassment, and support those who speak out against injustice, regardless of rank. News Josh Kerkaert selected as the 2022 Milton Huppert Graduate Student Awardee May 25, 2022 Josh Kerkaert has been selected as the 2022 Milton Huppert Graduate Student Awardee by the Medical Mycology Society of the Americas (MMSA). This award recognizes an outstanding graduate student in the field of Medical Mycology. Josh will give a presentation at the MMSA Annual Symposium as part of the award. Novel Research Shedding Light on Fungal Infections April 29, 2022 Deborah Hogan, PhD and Professor of Microbiology and Immunology tells "Infectious Disease Special Edition" that there is growing interest in the role of fungi in lung infections, such as those in patients with cystic fibrosis. Read More Upcoming M&I Events MORE DETAILS M/I Newsletter February 2022 Fabrice Jean-Pierre Landed a Named CFF Postdoc Fellowship Read More We’re Hiring! Assistant Professor Position in Host-Microbe Interactions APPLY HERE We are seeking applicants for a tenure-track Assistant Professor studying the broad area of host-microbe interactions. The successful candidate will join our collegial, inclusive, and collaborative scientific community with strengths in immunology and the biology of bacterial, fungal, viral, and parasitic diseases. The candidate must use contemporary approaches to address important fundamental questions related to the interplay between health- or disease-relevant microbes (bacteria, fungi, viruses, parasites, or symbionts) and host cells, tissues, transmission vectors, and/or the immune system. They will be expected to initiate and establish a robust research program that will attract extramural funding, provide research training for graduate, undergraduate and medical students, and teach in classroom settings at the graduate and/or undergraduate level. APPLY HERE Open Positions: Lab Staff Postdoc MCB Graduate Program Contact Us Department of Microbiology & Immunology Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth One Medical Center Drive HB7556 Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756 Immunology@dartmouth.edu Donate Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.