Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu Program Doctoral Program (PhD) Masters Programs (MS) Why QBS? People Faculty and Staff Featured Faculty James O’Malley, PhD Diane Gilbert-Diamond, ScD Scott Gerber, PhD Students Masters Students (MS) 2021 Masters Students 2020 Masters Students Doctoral Students (PhD) 2021 PhD Students 2020 PhD students Student Profiles MS Alumni PhD Alumni Admissions APPLY to QBS Requirements Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Resources Program resources Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Local community links Contact us Program Doctoral Program (PhD) Masters Programs (MS) Why QBS? People Faculty and Staff Featured Faculty James O’Malley, PhD Diane Gilbert-Diamond, ScD Scott Gerber, PhD Students Masters Students (MS) 2021 Masters Students 2020 Masters Students Doctoral Students (PhD) 2021 PhD Students 2020 PhD students Student Profiles MS Alumni PhD Alumni Admissions APPLY to QBS Requirements Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Resources Program resources Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Local community links Contact us Home Program PhD degree in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences PhD degree in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Students entering the PhD program are expected to have coursework in calculus, statistics, and programming, or to have demonstrated their experience in these areas. They are expected to be ready to use techniques of calculus, including differentiation and integration of multivariable functions, and to be comfortable with programming and scripting languages, both procedural and objected-oriented, such as R and Python. PhD requirements The QBS PhD degree includes eight core course requirements, expected to be completed in the first two years, and 3.5 units of electives. During the first year, students perform three research rotations under the supervision of three different program faculty members. Review degree requirements for the PhD. Core coursework PhD students take core courses in Computer Science, Biostatistics, Bioinformatics, and Epidemiology, and study topics through journal clubs. All students gain teaching experience as part of their training. See core courses for the QBS doctoral degree. Elective courses Elective courses in a wide range of areas are available to PhD students in this multidisciplinary program. Explore the list of electives. QBS degree timeline The QBS PhD is a residential, full time doctoral program, with cohorts of 10 students admitted each year. Review the PhD program timeline to learn more about current and future course offerings. Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.