Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu About the Center History of the Center Meet Our Team Global Health at Geisel Health Equity Blog Videos & Stories Programs & Partners Haiti Kosovo Peru Rwanda Tanzania (DarDar) Indian Health Service (USA) Global Health Electives Student Internships Urban Health Scholars Rural Health Scholars Global Health Scholars Make a Gift Contact About the Center History of the Center Meet Our Team Global Health at Geisel Health Equity Blog Videos & Stories Programs & Partners Haiti Kosovo Peru Rwanda Tanzania (DarDar) Indian Health Service (USA) Global Health Electives Student Internships Urban Health Scholars Rural Health Scholars Global Health Scholars Make a Gift Contact The Center for Health Equity Featured Celebrating the Life and Work of Dr. Paul Farmer Dr. Lisa V. Adams, Center Director, shared remarks during Dartmouth’s Celebration of Life and Work for Dr. Paul Farmer, who passed away in February. Watch video... about Celebrating the Life and Work of Dr. Paul Farmer On the Passing of Paul Farmer Lisa Adams remembers the global health pioneer's generosity with his patients, his learners, and his colleagues. Read more... about On the Passing of Paul Farmer Center for Global Health Equity Awarded Margo Krasnoff Grant for Global Nutrition Scholarships The Center for Global Health Equity (CGHE) is delighted to announce it is the recipient of a $4800 grant from The Margo Krasnoff Fund for Global Health and Nutrition. Read more... about Center for Global Health Equity Awarded Margo Krasnoff Grant for Global Nutrition Scholarships Race, Racism, Decolonisation, and Global Health Center director, Dr. Lisa V. Adams, was recently a guest speaker at the Matariki Network of Universities lecture series, “Race, Racism, and Decolonisation”. Watch video... about Race, Racism, Decolonisation, and Global Health Tecla Coleman Named Center for Global Health Equity Program Manager The Center for Global Health Equity at Dartmouth welcomes Tecla Coleman as its new program manager. Tecla is a 2021 graduate of The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice’s MPH hybrid program. Read more... about Tecla Coleman Named Center for Global Health Equity Program Manager About the Center Dartmouth’s Center for Health Equity brings together the medical school’s educational, clinical, research, and outreach initiatives focused on medically underserved populations. We are passionate about creating a world in which all people have equitable access to high quality care and to the conditions that promote health. To achieve our vision, we engage students and faculty in interdisciplinary education, research, advocacy, and clinical opportunities, made possible by our strong relationships with domestic and international partners. More Posts Center for Global Health Equity Awarded Margo Krasnoff Grant for Global Nutrition Scholarships March 18, 2022 On the Passing of Paul Farmer February 22, 2022 Geisel School of Medicine – Elective Opportunities In China June 7, 2021 Geisel News Geisel School of Medicine and Dartmouth-Hitchcock Researchers Receive Prestigious Colombian National Academy of Medicine Award $7M in Gifts Fuel Center for Global Health Equity On the Border Building Linkages to Combat Tuberculosis in Tanzania Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.