Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu Program Doctoral Program (PhD) Masters Programs (MS) Why QBS? People Faculty and Staff Featured Faculty James O’Malley, PhD Diane Gilbert-Diamond, ScD Scott Gerber, PhD Students Masters Students (MS) 2021 Masters Students 2020 Masters Students Doctoral Students (PhD) 2021 PhD Students 2020 PhD students Student Profiles MS Alumni PhD Alumni Admissions APPLY to QBS Requirements Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Resources Program resources Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Local community links Contact us Program Doctoral Program (PhD) Masters Programs (MS) Why QBS? People Faculty and Staff Featured Faculty James O’Malley, PhD Diane Gilbert-Diamond, ScD Scott Gerber, PhD Students Masters Students (MS) 2021 Masters Students 2020 Masters Students Doctoral Students (PhD) 2021 PhD Students 2020 PhD students Student Profiles MS Alumni PhD Alumni Admissions APPLY to QBS Requirements Application Process Tuition and Financial Aid Resources Program resources Burroughs Wellcome Fund Career Development Local community links Contact us Graduate Program in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Featured Congratulations Summer and Fall 2021 grads QBS Associate Director: Scott Gerber, PhD Dr. Gerber Highlights the Importance of Interdisciplinary Research & Training Read More about QBS Associate Director: Scott Gerber, PhD 4+1 Programs Epidemiology 4+1 Program Health Data Science 4+1 Program Learn More about 4+1 Programs Meet QBS Director: Diane Gilbert-Diamond, PhD At The Helm Of Scientific Advancement Through Interdisciplinary Research And Training Read More about Meet QBS Director: Diane Gilbert-Diamond, PhD APPLY NOW Learn About Our Programs PhD Training in Epidemiology, Bioinformatics, & Biostatistics MS Programs in Health Data Science or Epidemiology Learn More about Learn About Our Programs Embark on an Elite Academic Experience in Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Dartmouth’s Quantitative Biomedical Sciences (QBS) program has ushered in an unparalleled academic experience that challenges students to think critically with an interdisciplinary lens to solve complex biomedical problems facing local and global populations. Bridging the intersection of health care, biomedicine, biostatistics, population health, and big data, QBS faculty deliver cutting-edge theory while also serving as dedicated mentors who are passionate about student outcomes and success. They are accessible and attentive to student needs and foster an environment of collaboration, engagement, and lifelong learning. Learn More about QBS https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A1CfImTD3VU Program resources Learn More... This page lists reference materials for QBS students and faculty. You are welcome to use other Dartmouth or external resources to support your learning goals. Get the latest updates on applying to the QBS MS program Request Info Interested in the QBS PhD program? Email us at quant.biomed.sci@dartmouth.edu News The Dartmouth QBS community is at the forefront of creating solutions to previously unsolved problems. They exhibit academic excellence and tenacity, innovating across disciplines to develop the most effective outcomes. Read more below about events and people in the QBS community. Britt Goods, PhD, an assistant professor of engineering and QBS faculty member, participated in a new analysis which shows how milk-producing cells change over time in nursing mothers while a post-doc at MIT. Read more here Dartmouth Study Reveals Flaws in Statistical Modeling Approach Used in Health Services Research Findings from a new study conducted jointly at Dartmouth’s Geisel School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School, and published in Health Services Research, highlight the statistical drawbacks of one form of analysis commonly used in health services research while demonstrating the benefits of another. Read more here QBS MD-PhD students doing great things! QBS student MD-PhD students Yasmin Kamal MD-PhD '22 and Marek Svoboda, MD-PhD ' 24 are lead authors on the paper: “Science Scholars Curriculum: Integrating Scientific Research into Undergraduate Medical Education through a Comprehensive Student-Led Preclinical Elective,” published in MedEdPORTAL. Together, Kamal and Svoboda worked to help create a unique curriculum in the Geisel Medical School to expose future physicians to scientific research who are interested in becoming physician-scientists. Read more here The Dartmouth QBS Difference Our QBS programs give students the opportunity to be part of a lively, passionate community of students that thrives on collaboration, the sharing of ideas, and supporting and challenging one another to be their best. This sets the stage for students to collaborate across disciplines and areas of expertise to find unique insights in data that lead to truly innovative solutions for the world. Meet our current PhD students and current master’s students to learn more about our community. Why Dartmouth QBS? QBS Community Interdisciplinary Program Career Opportunities The Ivy League Experience Dedicated Faculty Strong Alumni Network Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.