Skip to main content COVID-19 Information Activate Menu Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Search this website Search for: Geisel School of Medicine Dartmouth Departments & Centers Find People Dartmouth Directory Geisel Faculty Directory Giving Make a Gift Anatomical Gifts Program DEI Dashboard Alumni Quick Links Admissions Biomedical Libraries COVID-19 Info Diversity & Inclusion Events Calendar Geisel Computing News Registrar Financial Aid Activate Menu News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas News Improving Lives Education Research Alumni Donor Impact Press Releases News Archives Geisel Insider COVID-19 Information Dartmouth COVID-19 Information Geisel COVID-19 Info D-H COVID-19 Info In the News Events Contact Us About Us For the Media Submit News Submit Research News Submit Story Ideas Home » News 31 May 2022 Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 by Susan Green On Saturday morning, May 28, the Geisel School of Medicine’s 99 graduates joyously gathered with family and friends outdoors on Dartmouth’s Class of 1978 Life Sciences Center lawn to celebrate the close of their academic studies and the beginning of their careers as physicians. Under a clear sunny sky (with thunderstorms at bay) Dean Duane Compton, PhD, congratulated the Class of 2022 and welcomed everyone to the momentous ceremony featuring guest speaker Andrea Hayes D ’87 MED ’91, FACS, FAAP, and student speakers Ramzi W. Ben-Yelles MED ’22 and Falen Demsas MED ’22. Geisel Alumni Council President John Houde MED ’92, welcomed the new physicians to an alumni family committed to their success. Class Day speaker Dr. Andrea Hayes D '87 MED '91. Hayes, chair of surgery and the Schneider Endowed Professor at Howard University School of Medicine where she is also associate director of the Cancer Center, specializes in refractory and resistant tumors in children—specifically soft tissue sarcomas. She is the first Black female pediatric surgeon in the U.S. and is known both nationally and internationally for her work pioneering hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) and cytoreductive surgery in children. Because the decisions a doctor makes for one patient can affect generations, she said, “My translation of the Hippocratic oath is, ‘To heal and to serve all with skill and integrity.’” A phrase Hayes repeated throughout her address. She encouraged the graduates to get to know their patients, to understand their behavior, to leave first impressions behind because they can cloud judgement, and to dig deep within themselves to give the best care. “When confronted with something you don’t understand, do not be afraid to consult with colleagues,” she advised. And to acknowledge the power behind the words, “what if …” Both Ben-Yelles and Demsas, in their individual remarks, recalled the professional and personal growth they and their classmates experienced during the past four years and acknowledged how their collective actions proved that medical students could facilitate change. When doubting themselves, to remember the quiet affirmations of their mentors, peers, and family. And to always treat patients with dignity and humility. Sharing advice from his mother, Ben-Yelles said, “Nothing will matter, no moment will be cherished, or memory will be savored, if you’re just thinking about and worrying about what’s next.” Demsas also encouraged the new physicians to thank those who “made you who you are … and to continue being agents for progress.” Dean Compton awarded Kathleen Miller MED ’22, The William Mellen Chamberlain Memorial Prize and Dean’s Medal—given each year to a member of the graduating class who, in the opinion of the faculty, has the best overall record of achievement during their four years of study at Geisel. And selected by members of their class as someone who best exemplifies the personal and intangible qualities of the good physician—caring and empathy—Joseph Minichiello MED ’22 received The Good Physician Award. Class Day Photo Gallery: This slideshow requires JavaScript. In thanking the graduates for the scope of their commitment to, and impact on, both the Upper Valley community and the medical school, Compton said, “Through your actions, you have embraced the Hippocratic Oath and given your heart and soul to your endeavors.” In conclusion, quoting Mother Theresa, he said, “Spread love everywhere you go.” During the previous evening’s annual Student and Faculty Awards ceremony, hosted by Alison V. Holmes, MD, MPH, associate dean for student affairs, associate professor of pediatrics, and associate professor of The Dartmouth Institute, students, faculty, and residents were recognized for their achievements. Among the awards conferred: Stephen M. Conn MED ’22 received The Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award presented by The Arnold P. Gold Foundation to a graduating medical student who consistently demonstrates compassion and empathy in the delivery of healthcare; Evadine G. Marcolini, MD, associate professor of emergency medicine and associate professor of neurology was the faculty recipient. Falen Demsas MED ’22 received the Diversity Visionary Leadership, Rolf C. Syvertsen Fellow, and the Dean’s Leadership Awards. Matthew B. Stanton MED ’22 received the Kyle Janeczek Memorial Award. Kira M. Gressman MED ’22, Maggie Leech MED ’22, Joseph M. Minichiello MED ’22, William J. Smith MED ’22, and Isabelle T.Y. Yang MED ’22, were named Rolf C. Syverstsen Scholars. You can download the programs for the Student and Faculty Awards and Class Day Ceremonies here. If you missed the ceremony, you can watch the video here: Share this: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Email Print Tags: Class Day,class of 2022,graduation Written by Susan Green Susan Green is a writer in the Geisel Office of Communications and Marketing. Search News Search this website Search for: Upcoming Events Pediatric Grand Rounds June 1, 2022 Department of Surgery Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis”, Parambir S. Dulai, MD June 3, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Neurology Grand Rounds June 3, 2022 Pediatric Grand Rounds June 8, 2022 Dartmouth Cancer Center Special Grand Rounds June 9, 2022 Medicine Grand Rounds “Race Correction in Medicine: What are the Ethical Issues?”, Shawneequa Callier, JD, MA June 10, 2022 Orthopaedic Grand Rounds June 10, 2022 Psychiatry Grand Rounds June 14, 2022 Geisel in the News Muskegon Area Sports Hall of Fame Inducts Another Solid Class of Athletic Standouts – Local Sports Journal May 26, 2022 Vermont Man’s Search for a Kidney Complicated by New Rules for Organ Donations – Concord Monitor via Valley News May 24, 2022 How New Hampshire Treatment Facilities Are Rethinking the Role of Trauma in Kids’ Behavior – VPR via NHPR May 24, 2022 VISTA Emerges as a Promising Immunotherapy Target in Cancer – Targeted Oncology May 24, 2022 In New Hampshire Healthcare Market, It Pays to Shop Around – New Hampshire Business Review via Concord Monitor May 23, 2022 My Tweets Geisel School of Medicine About Us Our Teaching Hospitals Admissions Support the School Alumni Contact For The Media Media Resources Media Contacts More Dartmouth news sites Connect With Us Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Higher Education Act Information Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. This page may link to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed.