Skip to content Toggle navigation Office of the General Counsel Home About Mission Staff Listing Organization Chart Units Affiliated Organizations Meet the Director Ethics First - Ethics and Compliance Meet our Team Ethics Awareness Week Legal Affairs Risk Management Resources Compliance & Risk Management Network Compliance Partners Group Ethics at GT EthicsPoint Reporting Tool Institute Policy Library Policy Steering Committee Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Contact Us Office of the General Counsel - Main Office Contact Information Phone: 404-894-0065; Fax: 404-385-6703 The office is located in the Lyman Hall Building, Suite 305. Campus mail stop: 0257 Mailing address: 221 Uncle Heinie Way, Atlanta GA 30332-0257 Campus map: http://map.gtalumni.org/ (Building ID: 29A) Georgia Tech Parking Area 1 Visitor’s Lot to Lyman Hall, Room 305 Driving south on I-75/85 into Atlanta: Please follow these instructions to the Area 1 Visitor Parking: Take Exit #249D (North Avenue). At the top of the exit ramp, turn right onto North Ave. and continue on North Ave. approximately 1.5 blocks through the traffic light at Techwood Drive. Pass under the Pedestrian Sky Bridge and on the left you will see a large parking lot. Parking will be available in the Area 1 Visitor lot. Simply pull to the Visitor 1 gate (on the left once inside the lot) and take a ticket. For ease and safety, please use the pedestrian Sky Bridge to cross over North Avenue from the top level in the visitor parking area. Once you're on campus, you'll see a building with a Tower with the words "TECH" (aka Tech Tower) on it. Continue walking to the right of this building, where you’ll be between Carnegie Building and The Bill Moore Student Success Center. Lyman Hall is straight ahead. Entrance to the building is on the right through glass doors. Once in the building, you'll be on the 2nd floor, turn right and take elevator to 3rd floor; on the 3rd floor, walk straight across the crosswalk and turn left. Room #305 will be on your left Driving north on I-75/85 into Atlanta: Please follow these instructions to the Area 1 Visitor Parking: Take Exit #249D (Spring Street, West Peachtree Street). At the top of the exit ramp, go through the first intersection (Spring Street). At the next intersection (West Peachtree), turn left. Continue on West Peachtree for approximately one block and turn left onto North Avenue. Cross over the interstate and Techwood Drive. On the left you will see a large parking lot. Parking will be available in the Visitor 1 lot. Simply pull to the Visitor 1 gate (on the left once inside the lot) and take a ticket. For ease and safety, please use the pedestrian Sky Bridge to cross over North Avenue from the top level in the visitor parking area. Once you're on campus, you'll see a building with a Tower with the words "TECH" (aka Tech Tower) on it. Continue walking to the right of this building, where you’ll be between Carnegie Building and The Bill Moore Student Success Center. Lyman Hall is straight ahead. Entrance to the building is on the right through glass doors. Once in the building, you'll be on the 2nd floor, turn right and take elevator to 3rd floor; on the 3rd floor, walk straight across the crosswalk and turn left. Room #305 will be on your left. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Division of Administration and Finance Campus Services Facilities Management Institute Planning and Resource Management Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Office of Information Technology Strategic Consulting Employee Resources Budget Planning Emergency Preparedness EthicsPoint Hotline Human Resources Institutional Research and Planning Parking Policy Library Procurement and Business Services TechWorks Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Affiliated Organizations Enterprise Risk Management Georgia Tech Police Department Internal Auditing Legal Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login