Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Office of the General Counsel Search form Search Home Attorneys Brian A. White Kimberly K. Gibbens Kimberly M. Grunewald Michael C. Leitch Megan K. Walawender Marie A. Taylor Kelly M. Nash Claire M. Koenig Megan McRae Peter Griffith Chad O'Neill Eric J. Aufdengarten Nathan T. Jackson Steve Allton Law Fellow Marissa Hotujac Haley Essner Staff Robbie L. Vannaman Lori Haaga Toni R. McMillen Jennifer Sanders Kellogg Jen Arbuthnot Theresa Woolley Contracts Overview Approval Process Signing Authority Required Terms General Considerations Samples Intellectual Property Ethics Rules Gifts Meals Travel Entertainment Lobbying Conflict of Interest Ethics Links The Kansas Open Records Act FAQs Resources University of Kansas State of Kansas Other States US Government Search Engines News Opportunities Higher Education Law Fellowship Healthcare Law Fellowship Legal Clerkship Art Law Externship Menu Home Attorneys Brian A. White Kimberly K. Gibbens Kimberly M. Grunewald Michael C. Leitch Megan K. Walawender Marie A. Taylor Kelly M. Nash Claire M. Koenig Megan McRae Peter Griffith Chad O'Neill Eric J. Aufdengarten Nathan T. Jackson Steve Allton Law Fellow Marissa Hotujac Haley Essner Staff Robbie L. Vannaman Lori Haaga Toni R. McMillen Jennifer Sanders Kellogg Jen Arbuthnot Theresa Woolley Contracts Overview Approval Process Signing Authority Required Terms General Considerations Samples Intellectual Property Ethics Rules Gifts Meals Travel Entertainment Lobbying Conflict of Interest Ethics Links The Kansas Open Records Act FAQs Resources University of Kansas State of Kansas Other States US Government Search Engines News Opportunities Higher Education Law Fellowship Healthcare Law Fellowship Legal Clerkship Art Law Externship Search Search form Search Home Attorneys Brian A. White Brian A. White General Counsel and Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs Brian-white@ku.edu Primary office: 785-864-3276 Summary Bio Brian White is the General Counsel and Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs for the University of Kansas. In that role, Brian is responsible for providing strategic legal advice and coordinating the delivery of legal services in all areas of law affecting the university. Brian joined KU in August 2018. Brian comes to KU from UCONN Health in Farmington, Connecticut, where he served as its first Chief Counsel. Prior to that he served as Associate General Counsel and Interim VP of Facilities and Support Services at UW Health in Madison, Wisconsin. Brian began practicing as an in-house attorney in higher education at the University of Iowa, where he served as a Senior Associate Director and Legal Counsel for the University of Iowa Healthcare. Brian’s private legal experience includes his work as an associate with the Chicago firm of Boundas, Skarzynski, Walsh & Black. Brian is a graduate of the University of Iowa College of Law, where he was an Editor on the Journal of Corporation Law. Brian is an active member of the American Health Lawyer’s Association, serving as Vice Chair of the In-House Practice Group, the National Association of College and University Attorneys, and also serves as Vice Chair of the Vizient/UHC Legal and Compliance Practice Group. Office locations Lawrence campus: 245 Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045-7535 785-864-3276 785-864-4617 Medical Center campus: 2001 Murphy Administration Building, Mail Stop 2013 3901 Rainbow Blvd. Kansas City, KS 66160-7101 913-588-7281 913-945-5866 Related Intellectual Property Policy FERPA Information Kansas Law Enforcement Training Center Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times Give to KU » KU Today Contact Office of the General Counsel gencoun@ku.edu Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login