Skip to content Toggle navigation Office of the General Counsel Home About Mission Staff Listing Organization Chart Units Affiliated Organizations Meet the Director Ethics First - Ethics and Compliance Meet our Team Ethics Awareness Week Legal Affairs Risk Management Resources Compliance & Risk Management Network Compliance Partners Group Ethics at GT EthicsPoint Reporting Tool Institute Policy Library Policy Steering Committee Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Compliance & Risk Management Network The Compliance & Risk Management Network consists of senior management who review the entire range of risks facing the Institute and set the general direction for enterprise risk management at Georgia Tech. The objectives of Compliance & Risk Management Network are to: Identify the key risks that could significantly interfere with Georgia Tech’s Strategic Plan Goals and Institutional Initiatives. Assess the key risks, identify vulnerabilities, and decide either to accept the existing risk level or invest additional resources to manage it. Detail a risk management plan for mitigation controls and operational and communication responses to potential adverse events. Support processes to implement these risk management plans. Help eliminate risk surprises. Risk Inventory The Georgia Tech Risk Inventory was developed through a series of focused discussions involving individuals with operational responsibility in Academic Affairs, Campus Services, Finance, Human Resources, Information Technology, Research Administration, and Student Life. The risk factors identified in those discussions were reviewed by the Network, grouped into general subject matter areas, and categorized by risk level: Institute (related to strategic objectives), Unit (operational or process oriented), or Systemic (affecting all of higher education, little or no control). Risk Scoring Risk Scoring is based upon the probability of the risk becoming reality (likelihood), the effect that would have on the Institute (impact), and the estimated timing (velocity). Exactness is not needed or achievable. Identification of the highest priority, most urgent risk factors in the total population of risks is what is important. Risk Scoring creates a roadmap for the Institute to manage risk strategically, not perfectly. Georgia Tech Risk Score Sheet Impact High Medium Low Impair Achievement of Strategic Goal Result in Substantial Financial Cost Create Significant Damage to Institute Reputation or Serious Injury Require Intervention in Institutional Operations Create Inefficiency or Re-Work Result in Fines Minor Injury Moderate Loss Small Limited Loss Result in Warning or Reprimand Little Effect on Institute Likelihood High Medium Low Probability > 75% Will happen frequently On-going event Predictable Probability 50% - 75% Sometimes occurs Unpredictable Probability < 50% Will seldom happen Has not happened Velocity High Medium Low Estimate may happen in 0-3 years Estimate may happen in 4-6 years Estimate may happen in 7-10 years Risk Plans On the recommendation of the Network, individuals are identified as principally responsible for each of the high priority risk factors and are asked to develop risk management plans in each area. The risk management plans are reviewed by the Network, subsequently presented to the President’s Cabinet, and shared with the University System of Georgia Board of Regents. Controls detailed in risk management plans are included in the Risk Inventory. The Network re-scores the risk factors after considering controls to determine residual risk (i.e., how well the controls are working). Risk management plans are given one year updates to determine how well they are working and if additional resources are needed.  Sharepoint Site The Network has a Sharepoint site where the Risk Inventory and Risk Plans are kept for Network editing and use. The Compliance & Risk Management Network Sharepoint site is available to Network members at: http://www.ecla.gatech.edu/crmn GT Risk Inventory Sharepoint site available to Network members. Members click here. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Division of Administration and Finance Campus Services Facilities Management Institute Planning and Resource Management Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Office of Information Technology Strategic Consulting Employee Resources Budget Planning Emergency Preparedness EthicsPoint Hotline Human Resources Institutional Research and Planning Parking Policy Library Procurement and Business Services TechWorks Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Affiliated Organizations Enterprise Risk Management Georgia Tech Police Department Internal Auditing Legal Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login