Skip to content Office of General Counsel Toggle navigation About OGC About OGC Annual Report Attorney & Staff Contacts OGC Subject Matter Areas Organizational Chart Directions & Parking Contact Us Legal FAQs Contracts Free Speech General FAQs Lawsuits, Litigation & Subpoenas Lawsuits, Litigation & Subpoena FAQs Litigation Hold Terminology Political Activities of Employees Records Compliance & Ethics Compliance Website Policies & Guidance Policies, Regulations & Rules (PRR) PRRs Recently Updated COVID-19 Legal Response Team COVID-19 Legal Response Team In the News Search Search for: Search PRRs Recently Updated Please visit the PRRs Recently Updated page for the latest updates to NCSU policies and regulations here. Our Vision To be our client’s first call to collaborate in developing creative solutions in response to challenges or barriers. To be recognized and utilized by those we serve as valued counselors in formulating, evaluating, and dispensing sound situational judgment and preventative legal and risk advice. Our Mission We are a dedicated team of legal advisors, counselors and professional staff committed to serving our clients by facilitating creative and collaborative solutions. We offer high-quality advice to assist our clients in their daily decision making and to further the university’s goals and initiatives. We counsel the university community on legal and risk management matters in a collegial, responsive manner. Our passion is service; our standard is excellence. Who We Serve We provide legal and risk management advice on a wide variety of matters to the Board of Trustees, the Chancellor, senior officers, other university administrators, and faculty and staff who are acting on behalf of the university. We do not represent or advise faculty, staff or students about personal legal matters. For personal legal advice, employees should consult a private attorney. NC State offers a pre-paid legal plan as an employee benefit. Please contact the NCSU Benefits Office to receive information about this service. The North Carolina State Bar and the North Carolina Bar Association offer many resources, including a Lawyer Referral Service. In addition, eligible individuals may qualify for free legal services with Legal Aid of North Carolina. Students should contact Student Legal Services or seek a private attorney. How Can We Help? Quick links to help get you get to the information you need. i would like to use a university logo or mark i have received a public records request i would like to request records how do i update a prr? questions about a subpoena or court order? i want to engage in private consulting, what do i need to know? Office of General Counsel 20 Watauga Club Drive 304 Holladay Hall Campus Box 7008 Raleigh, North Carolina 27695-7008 919-515-3071 919-515-3060 (fax) This website is provided as a resource for learning basic legal competencies on a variety of topics that affect the university. Disclaimer Notice: These materials are presented here for informational purposes only and do not constitute legal advice on a particular matter. Legal advice must be tailored to the specific facts and circumstances relating to an issue. For legal advice on a particular university matter within your official responsibilities, please consult with a member of the Office of General Counsel. Office of General Counsel Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in