Skip to content Toggle navigation Office of the General Counsel Home About Mission Staff Listing Organization Chart Units Affiliated Organizations Meet the Director Ethics First - Ethics and Compliance Meet our Team Ethics Awareness Week Legal Affairs Risk Management Resources Compliance & Risk Management Network Compliance Partners Group Ethics at GT EthicsPoint Reporting Tool Institute Policy Library Policy Steering Committee Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Units Affiliated Organizations The Affiliated Organizations of Georgia Institute of Technology are legally separate nonprofit corporations that assist Georgia Tech in achieving its strategic goals and priorities. The need for these specialized organizations has grown as the Institute has become increasingly complex, particularly in its increasing use of private funds for capital projects and its expanding technology ventures. The distinct status of the affiliated organizations allows Georgia Tech to address campus infrastructure and operational needs in innovative and creative ways. Their operations are critical to the success of the Institute and are closely scrutinized, both internally and externally. The strategic goals and priorities of Georgia Tech are established by the President acting under the guidance of the Chancellor and the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia. The priorities of Georgia Tech are in turn integrated into the priorities, activities and operations of the Affiliated Organizations. The legal authority and operating control of each Affiliated Organization is clearly defined and each has a contractual or other formal agreement that describes its relationship with Georgia Tech. Organizations designated as Cooperative Organizations of Georgia Tech conduct their respective operations in compliance with the Board of Regents Policy Manual, Section 12.5 – Cooperative Organizations, including the execution of a Memoranda of Understanding with the institution. The Affiliated Organizations are individually functioning entities that are operated separately and in a professional, open and responsible manner. Each organization issues separate financial statements but the business and financial activities of each are coordinated with the business and financial activities of the Institute. The Executive Director, Affiliated Organizations is charged with assuring that these organizations are organized and operated in a professional business manner, that the separate legal existence and the ability of the organizations to accomplish their intended purposes are preserved, and that their respective activities are coordinated and aligned with the strategic and operational goals of the Institute. Affiliated Organizations Meet the Director, Affiliated Organizations Georgia Advanced Technology Ventures, Inc. Georgia Tech Alumni Association Georgia Tech Athletic Association/Alexander-Tharpe Fund Georgia Tech Facilities, Inc. Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. Georgia Tech Global Inc. Georgia Tech Lorraine Georgia Tech Research Corporation/Georgia Tech Applied Research Corporation Home Park Learning Center, Inc. Southern Light Rail, Inc. Global Center for Medical Innovation, Inc. EmTech, Inc. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Division of Administration and Finance Campus Services Facilities Management Institute Planning and Resource Management Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Office of Information Technology Strategic Consulting Employee Resources Budget Planning Emergency Preparedness EthicsPoint Hotline Human Resources Institutional Research and Planning Parking Policy Library Procurement and Business Services TechWorks Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Affiliated Organizations Enterprise Risk Management Georgia Tech Police Department Internal Auditing Legal Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login