Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Office of the General Counsel Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Attorneys Legal Templates and Forms Legal Links Public Records Requests Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Office of the General Counsel Toggle navigation Home Attorneys Legal Templates and Forms Legal Links Public Records Requests Home Public Records Requests Public Records Requests Florida State University is committed to providing public access to records under Florida’s Public Records Laws. For more information about public records requests and any associated fees, please refer to Chapter 119 in the Florida Statutes. Frequently Asked Questions What are public records? As defined in Chapter 119, Florida Statutes, any record that transacts official University business is considered open to the public. This includes most records created by University employees and agents when they are acting in their official capacity. However, not all records are open to public disclosure. Some records may be considered confidential and/or exempt under Florida Statutes. See below for more information about common exemptions. What is the difference between information and records? While certain records are open to the public, the University is not required to answer general questions if the information is not reflected in a public record. Further, the University is not required to answer questions about a record, or to create a record where one does not exist. What records are exempt from public disclosure? Florida Statutes provide several exemptions to the public records law to protect sensitive or non-public information. While this is not an exhaustive list, some of the more common exemptions are explained below: Social Security Numbers (§ 119.071(5)) Medical information (§§ 90.503; 456.057) Personnel evaluations of job performance (§ 1012.91) Certain disciplinary records (§ 119.071(2)) Direct Support Organization records (§ 1004.28) Records related to research (§ 1004.22) Information for law enforcement personnel, mental health workers, and their families (§ 119.071(4)) IT and Security information (§ 282.318(4)) Trade secrets and proprietary information (§ 812.081) Student records (§ 1006.52) Is there a fee for receiving public records? Florida Statutes allow the University to recover the cost of printing or duplicating records in response to a request. Additionally, if the University's response requires extensive use of information technology resources or clerical or supervisory assistance, the University may recover a reasonable service charge. The charge is based on the labor and any other actual costs associated with gathering and duplicating the records. The University will provide an estimate of the cost required to fulfill a request, and may require prepayment of the service charge. For more information, see FSU Regulation 2.023 Public Records: Uniform Charge Procedure. How long does it take to process a records request? The University has a "reasonable time" to respond to a records request, so no definite timeframe applies. The timing depends on the facts and circumstances of each request. If the request is extensive, voluminous, or includes exempt information requiring redaction, the University's response time will vary. The University is not required to comply with a deadline stated in the request. How long are public records available? The Department of State's Division of Library and Information Services has established a timeline for retaining and destroying University records. Retention requirements vary depending on the category of records. Depending on the guidelines, certain records may no longer exist at the time of a request. See the State's General Records Schedules for more detailed information. Under § 119.12, Florida Statutes, the Office of the General Counsel has been designated as the Custodian of Public Records. For your convenience, you may submit a public records request by completing the Request Form below. Submit Your Request Name First Last Email Phone Topic of Request - Select -AthleticsContracts and Business MattersHuman Resources and PersonnelMedia ResourcesOther University Records Are you a member of the media? Yes No Please provide a description of the records you are requesting What code is in the image? Enter the characters shown in the image. Get new captcha! Submit Members of the public may also submit requests and other questions to: Florida State University Office of the General Counsel Attn: Custodian of Public Records 222 S. Copeland Street, Suite 424 Tallahassee, FL 32306-1400 Tel: (850) 644-4440 Email: generalcounsel@fsu.edu Members of the public may also submit requests and other questions to: Florida State University Office of the General Counsel Attn: Custodian of Public Records 222 S. Copeland Street, Suite 424 Tallahassee, FL 32306 Tel: (850) 644-4440 Email: generalcounsel@fsu.edu Members of the media may wish to submit specific requests to the Office of University Communications. Media Resources The University provides public information through various outlets. The following links may help to answer your questions. Privacy Policy University Registrar Florida State University Board of Trustees Office of the President FSU Athletics Florida State University News Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing. Office of the General Counsel: Florida State University, 222 South Copeland Street, Suite 424, Westcott Building, Tallahassee, FL 32306-1400 | Phone: 850 644 4440 | Fax: 850 644 8973 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media