Skip to content Toggle navigation Office of the General Counsel Home About Mission Staff Listing Organization Chart Units Affiliated Organizations Meet the Director Ethics First - Ethics and Compliance Meet our Team Ethics Awareness Week Legal Affairs Risk Management Resources Compliance & Risk Management Network Compliance Partners Group Ethics at GT EthicsPoint Reporting Tool Institute Policy Library Policy Steering Committee Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Resources Compliance Partners Group The Compliance Partners Group (“CPG”) is a partnership between compliance units at the department level. The CPG works in tandem with ongoing department level compliance operations to enhance effective compliance work, provide compliance communication, and highlight compliance resource needs. The CPG is made up of administrators responsible for the day-to-day functional obligations relevant to an assigned compliance area and for coordinating interdepartmental compliance activities with one another. The CPG takes into account the decentralized nature of compliance work, as well as the value of shared governance. It avoids the creation of new bureaucracy and redundancy of efforts, while assigning responsibility for designated compliance areas to those administrators with the most pertinent knowledge of the impacted operations. The CPG has the ability to leverage resources and expertise among compliance projects that cross specialties. The CPG adds value by focusing attention on compliance risks of greatest impact to Georgia Tech. Compliance Partners Compliance Partners personally carry out compliance obligations or see to the assignment of compliance activities, and confirm that they have been appropriately carried out. Compliance Partners are responsible for ensuring that reporting deadlines applicable to their respective compliance areas are met. Compliance Partners confer with the Office of Legal Affairs on legal questions regarding legal compliance and regulatory matters. Compliance Matrix The Institute has myriad obligations for compliance with external and internal mandates and standards. There are multiple sources for such standards, from laws and agency regulations to accreditation standards to internal and external policies and procedures. The Compliance Matrix involves a decentralized matrix of the offices and administrators responsible for specific legal and regulatory compliance obligations of the Institute. The Compliance Matrix is maintained by the CPG to help identify and organize department and interdepartmental responsibilities for compliance with federal and state laws, regulations, other external standards, and policies and procedures (both Institute as well as the University System of Georgia). The Compliance Matrix is designed to provide coordination and documentation of existing and ongoing institutional compliance initiatives to meet increasing federal regulations, external standards, and best practices. The Compliance Matrix has five main components: Law or Regulation – the title and short summary of the legal or regulatory compliance obligation Lead Contact – the individual assigned to take the lead in monitoring and responding to the law or regulation for the Institute Coordinating Offices – the other offices the Lead Contact will work with to help ensure compliance with the law or regulation Reporting Deadline – any external reporting deadline associated with the law or regulation Training Requirement – any external training requirement associated with the law or regulation Compliance Calendar The Compliance Calendar is a shared calendar populated by the Compliance Partners containing Institute-level compliance reporting deadlines. The Compliance Calendar has five main components: Title – the name of the compliance reporting requirement Date – reporting deadline Description – a summary of the compliance reporting requirement Department – the department or office coordinating the compliance report or event Primary Contact – the individual assigned to take the lead on the compliance report or event Compliance Documents The CPG keeps a shared document library with copies of compliance documents and research applicable to their respective compliance areas. This document library serves as a resource for Compliance Partners to share compliance information, documents, and best practice material. Original compliance documents are kept by the Compliance Partners within individual departments. Sharepoint Site The CPG has a Sharepoint site where the Compliance Matrix, Compliance Calendar, and Compliance Documents are kept for CPG editing and use. The Compliance Partners Group Sharepoint site is available to CPG members at: http://cpg.gatech.edu Compliance Matrix Sharepoint site available to CPG members. Members click here. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Division of Administration and Finance Campus Services Facilities Management Institute Planning and Resource Management Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Office of Information Technology Strategic Consulting Employee Resources Budget Planning Emergency Preparedness EthicsPoint Hotline Human Resources Institutional Research and Planning Parking Policy Library Procurement and Business Services TechWorks Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Affiliated Organizations Enterprise Risk Management Georgia Tech Police Department Internal Auditing Legal Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login