Skip to content Toggle navigation Office of the General Counsel Home About Mission Staff Listing Organization Chart Units Affiliated Organizations Meet the Director Ethics First - Ethics and Compliance Meet our Team Ethics Awareness Week Legal Affairs Risk Management Resources Compliance & Risk Management Network Compliance Partners Group Ethics at GT EthicsPoint Reporting Tool Institute Policy Library Policy Steering Committee Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Below you will find a schedule of events for Ethics Awareness Week ("Ethics Week") 2021. You are here: GT Home Home Ethics First – Ethics and Compliance Test Your Ethics IQ Use your Georgia Tech login to answer three daily ethics and compliance questions for Ethics First giveaways! Click here for the quiz questions! Monday's quiz answers Tuesday's quiz answers Wednesday's quiz answers Thursday's quiz answers Friday's quiz answers Visit an Ethics Table 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. Before and during Ethics Week, the Office of Ethics and Compliance will answer questions, provide resources, and hand out Ethics First giveaways. Stop by and pick up a webcam cover, a coffee mug, water bottle, or phone holder and register for Ethics Week events! The Exhibition Hall and Harrison Square: 10/26, 11/2, 11/4, 11/8, 11/9, 11/10 GTRI Headquarters: 9/27, 9/28, 11/4, 11/8, 11/9 GTRI Cobb County: 10/26, 11/2, 11/8, 11/9 See locations on here (opens in a new tab) Game Time Mashup with Executive Leadership Monday, November 8th 10:30-11:30 a.m. EST (Atlanta) Hybrid (Academy of Medicine) President Angel Cabrera and Executive Vice Presidents Steven McLaughlin, Chaouki Abdallah, and Kelly Fox will go head-to-head playing familiar games with an ethical twist. In-person attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy coffee and pastries. This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Register Here Sticker Blitz with the Ramblin' Reck Monday, November 8th 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. (and Tuesday 11 – 11:45 a.m.) In-Person (Exhibition Hall) Visit the Ramblin’ Reck, take photos, collect vinyl stickers, and receive Ethics First giveaways! Predatory Publication and Issues in Authorship Monday, November 8th 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. Hybrid (Dalney Conference Room 180) In this interactive session, explore power dynamics, fraud, and diversity issues in publication and authorship practices. Dr. Cassidy Sugimoto, Professor and Tom and Marie Patton School Chair in the School of Public Policy, will provide practical tips for both authors and assigners of authorship to address and ensure equity in publication. Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy cold beverages and snacks. We invite all those interested both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community to attend this event. Register Here (opens in a new tab) A "Google Chat" with Google's Chief Compliance Officer, Spyro Karetsos Tuesday, November 9th 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Hybrid (GTRI Auditorium) Our keynote speaker, Google Chief Compliance Officer, Spyro Karetsos, will share insight about expectations and best practices at Google. He will be introduced by Ling-Ling Nie, General Counsel at Georgia Tech. In-person attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways. We invite all those interested both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community to attend virtually. We limit in person attendance to our Georgia Tech community. GT Community register here for in-person or virtual participation Non-GT participants register here Ethics in K-12 Education, Outreach, and Research Tuesday, November 9th 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Virtual Join CEISMC’s (Center for Education Integrating Science, Mathematics, & Computing) executive leadership as they share their experiences conducting research in K-12 schools and affiliated communities. They will focus on navigating the ethical standards involved in conducting research with K-12 individuals. Some of the topics will include informed consent, balancing the benefit-risk ratio, preserving voluntary participation, and conducting diverse participant recruitment. Panelists: Dr. Lizanne DeStefano, Executive Director of CEISMC Dr. Meltem Alemdar, Associate Director of CEISMC Register Here Safe Space Training Tuesday, November 9th 12:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. In-Person We are responsible for building a culture where we can be honest and respect one another. Ethical leaders create safe spaces for all. Learn to create safe spaces for all in this interactive session hosted by the LGBTQIA Resource Center. Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways. Register Here Resolving the Mysteries of Authorship Versus Ownership Wednesday, November 10th 9:30 – 10:30 a.m. Virtual Collaborative research is core to Georgia Tech's mission, and those engaged in such endeavors often have questions and/or concerns regarding authorship versus ownership. Join us as representatives from the Office of the Provost and Office of the General Counsel discuss Georgia Tech's policies and procedures on scholarly misconduct, intellectual property, and resolving authorship disputes. Panelists: Bonnie Ferri, Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Faculty Development Jason Borenstein, Director of Graduate Research Ethics Program Bing Wang, Senior Counsel Kyla Turpin Ross, Assistant Vice Provost for Advocacy and Conflict Resolution This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Register Here Preparing Future Leaders for Ethical Challenges Wednesday, November 10th 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Virtual Join ETHICx for an interdisciplinary panel of faculty, in biological sciences, civil and environmental engineering, business, and public policy, as they discuss teaching ethics and preparing students for ethical challenges in their future careers. Moderator: Michael Goodisman, Associate Professor, School of Biological Sciences, College of Sciences Panelists: Adjo Amekudzi-Kennedy, Associate Chair for Global Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship and Professor, School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering Karie Davis-Nozemack, Associate Professor, Scheller College of Business Bob Kirkman, Associate Professor and Director of Graduate Studies, School of Public Policy, Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Two attendees will receive basketball tickets for Georgia Tech vs Wisconsin on Dec. 1! We invite all those interested both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community to attend this event. Register Here (opens in a new tab) An Hour with the Honor Advisory Committee (HAC) Wednesday, November 10th 6 – 7 p.m. Virtual The HAC supports students by presenting, answering, and connecting with students that have questions about academic integrity and our Honor Code. They also partner with the Office of Student Integrity to create seminars for students who have academic integrity violations. Get to know the HAC and how they function! This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Register Here Incenting Integrity: Aligning Values and Incentives Thursday, November 11th 10:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. In-Person (Exhibition Hall, Centennial Room) Join the Alumni Association as they share innovative ways to recognize people for incorporating our values into their daily work. They will share creative methods to encourage your team to practice our mission, vision, and values. Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy coffee and pastries. We invite all those interested both within and outside of our Georgia Tech community to attend this event. Register Here (opens in a new tab) A Person or a Number? Multiple Perspectives on Collecting and Using Human Subject Data Thursday, November 11th 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. Virtual Join us for a panel about the tension between what we can do and what we ought to do in human subject research and with human subject data. In the advancement of the human condition, how do we weigh potential consequences? What does it look like to be model leader in this area? The panel approaches these topics with the background of research and data collection in the global pandemic. This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Moderator: Macy Fennell, Legal Counsel, Office of the General Counsel Panelists: Jason Borenstein, Director of Graduate Research Ethics Programs Aaron Levine, Associate Dean for Research and Outreach, Associate Professor Kelly Winn, Director, HRPP and Regulatory Affairs Office of Research Integrity Assurance Register Here (opens in a new tab) USG Ethics & Compliance Best Practices in Higher Education Friday, November 12th 10:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. Virtual The University System of Georgia will host a panel of ethics experts from industry, the USG, and Georgia Tech about accountability in higher education. Moderator: Rose Proctor, Associate Director of Ethics and Compliance, USG and Director, BB&T Center for Ethical Leadership, University of North Georgia Panelists: Bryan Dawson, Professor Psychological Science, University of North Georgia John Fuchko III, Vice Chancellor, Organizational Effectiveness, USG Mike Higley, Former VP Sub-Sahara Africa FedEx Express Kara Tucker, Lead Counsel, Director of Ethics and Compliance, Georgia Tech Register Here (opens in a new tab) Ethics Delivered to You Friday, November 12th 1:30-2:30 p.m. In-Person (O'Keefe Gated Parking Lot) No registration necessary Giveaways and conversation brought directly to non-exempt employees by the Office of Ethics and Compliance. This event is for our Georgia Tech non-exempt employees only. Gender Equity from the Perspective of Military Leadership Friday, November 12th 1:30 - 2:30 p.m. Hybrid (Exhibition Hall, Room Midtown V) Join the Veteran’s Resource Center for a panel examining gender equality and equity in the military through the experiences of two US military members and current Georgia Tech students. They will discuss gender bias and equity, stereotypes, sexism, and how these challenges affect veterans transitioning to civilian life. Panelists: Chelsea Selby, U.S. Air Force Reserve member, President of Student Veterans of America at Georgia Tech Hannah Bembry – U.S. Army Active Duty, ROTC Cadet Attendees will receive Ethics First giveaways and enjoy cold beverages and snacks. This event is for our Georgia Tech campus community. Register Here Faculty and Staff Reminder! 2021 Annual Compliance Training The 2021 Annual Compliance Training will help define Living Our Values, reinforce the University System of Georgia’s (USG) ethical standards and cybersecurity requirements, and remind us all about the importance of research integrity, reporting external activities, and navigating foreign influence. All employees (faculty, staff, Tech Temps, and student employees), hired before October 1, 2021, are required to visit the Georgia Tech Learner Dashboard  to complete the following by midnight EST November 19, 2021: University System of Georgia (USG) Ethics Training Information Security/Cybersecurity Training Georgia Tech Foreign Influence, Research Integrity, and Conflict of Interest Training Conflict of Interest Certification You may submit your questions or request assistance at Annual Compliance Help or visit the FAQ page. (opens in a new tab) Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Division of Administration and Finance Campus Services Facilities Management Institute Planning and Resource Management Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Office of Information Technology Strategic Consulting Employee Resources Budget Planning Emergency Preparedness EthicsPoint Hotline Human Resources Institutional Research and Planning Parking Policy Library Procurement and Business Services TechWorks Ethics, Compliance and Legal Affairs Affiliated Organizations Enterprise Risk Management Georgia Tech Police Department Internal Auditing Legal Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login