Skip to main content Mobile Main Navigation About Us Education Events People Community Building Resources News Mobile Utility Navigation Harvard Medical School MyHMS Menu Utility Navigation Harvard Medical School MyHMS Search Main navigation About Us Contact Us History Composition and Departmental Structure Relationship to Other Departments and Institutes at Harvard Departmental Employment Opportunities Postdoctoral Opportunities at HMS Education Biological & Biomedical Sciences (BBS) Course offerings Events Genetic Seminar Series Data Journal Club Related HMS Events Genetics Retreat 2022 Epigenetics & Gene Dynamics Symposium People Community Building Departmental Committee on Diversity and Inclusion Events & Resources for Racial and Social Justice Resources Research Support Departmental Resources Research Archive Help at Harvard News Coronavirus Information for the HMS Community Current HMS COVID-19 Policies Welcome to Genetics at Harvard Medical School In 1981 Harvard University established a new Department of Genetics at the Medical School Learn News | December 1, 2021 Winners of the 2021 ARGEN grant challenge The goal of the challenge was to harness creative ideas that could advance the culture and infrastructure of our department in support of a more diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment. Winners of the 2021 ARGEN grant challenge Genetics Society of America honoring Chao-ting Wu and others Chao-ting Wu, Professor of Genetics Sean Ku Wang featured in Forbes' 30 Under 30 Wang researches degenerative retinal diseases, as part of a team that discovered the role immune... Recent Research Isolation of Nuclei from Mammalian Cells and Tissues for Single-Nucleus Molecul… Emily R. Nadelmann, Joshua M. Gorham, Daniel Reichart, Daniel M. Delaughter, Hiroko Wakimoto, Eric L. Lindberg, Monika Litviňukova, Henrike Maatz, Justin J. Curran, Daniela Ischiu Gutierrez, Norbert Hübner, Christine E. Seidman, J. G. Seidman Essential histone chaperones collaborate to regulate transcription and chromati… Viktorovskaya O., Chuang J., Jain D., Reim N.I., Alver B.H., Lopez-Rivera F., Murawska, M., Spatt D., Churchman S., Park P.J., Winston F.M. HIM-17 regulates the position of recombination events and GSP-1/2 localization … Saravanapriah Nadarajan, Elisabeth Altendorfer, Takamune T. Saito, Marina Martinez-Garcia, and Monica P. Colaiácovo Upcoming Events Epigenetics and Gene Dynamics Initiatives The Epigenetics and Gene Dynamics Initiative and Annual Symposium have become an integral part of the HMS epigenetics, chromatin and gene regulation communities, not only to bring investigators and labs closer together, but also to provide support in the form of seed and travel grants. Learn More Links to Resources OFFICE OF DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP (DICP) Culturally Aware Mentorship (CAM) DICP LGBT Programming DICP Minority Faculty Development Program DICP Programs for Medical and Graduate Students DICP Programs for Postdocs and Fellows Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering LGBT Community Groups Minority Biomedical Scientists at Harvard National Research Mentoring Network Sexual and Gender Minority and Health Equity Initiative Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics & Native Americans in Science Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube Department of Genetics 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-7666 Footer Accessibility Privacy Policy © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College