Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Geology myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Overview Contact Us Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link Geology Undergraduate BA Geology Undergraduate BS Geology Undergraduate Minor Geology Graduate MS Geology Graduate PhD Geology Graduate PSM Geology Graduate NDS Admission Select to follow link Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Support Research People Select to follow link Faculty Graduate Students Staff Adjunct Courtesy Emeriti and Retired Postdoctoral Researchers Lecturers Colloquium Series Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Ways to Support Alumni News & Events Field Camp Stories Resources Select to follow link Facilities Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Geology Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Geology KU Geology educates future geoscientists and drives cutting-edge interdisciplinary research addressing some of Earth’s most pressing issues impacting humanity. Virtual Tour Due to COVID-19 concerns, campus tours are currently restricted. However, you can still connect with us here. Virtual Tour Field Courses Get Out and Explore Learn More Field Camp Stories Field Work Support Support KU Geology The rich student experiences that set KU Geology apart continue to be supported at every level by donor generosity. Learn how your giving allows our dedicated faculty and talented graduate & undergraduate students to excel in the classroom, lab, and field. Ways to Support Degrees Offered KU Geology is comprised of students, faculty, staff, and alumni who are inspired by a collaborative and multidisciplinary mission to undertake scientific discovery that benefits society. Our program is large enough to be led by world-renowned faculty with expertise in areas that span the geosciences, from energy to the environment, volcanology to the cryosphere, microbes to ancient rock, and more. Explore Degrees Facilities and Labs Explore the Earth, Energy, and Environment Center. The Department of Geology shares this extraordinary building with Petroleum Engineering, resulting in a highly collaborative, closely integrated space in which we are together undertaking groundbreaking energy and environment research and education. The Department faculty also operate several labs and instruments that serve individual Geology students and researchers, as well as other KU researchers and researchers outside KU. Facilities News from the Department Students win awards at online Undergraduate Research Symposium LAWRENCE — The University of Kansas Center for Undergraduate Research has announced the winners of its 24th annual Undergraduate Research Symposium. The event took place online this year and went live April 24. Pioneering study of LGBTQ experience in the geosciences finds difficulties, dangers in fieldwork Ambitious project spanning 5 states, 8 institutions will focus on intermittent streams KGS scientist receives national award for groundwater research View all news KU Geology Events See all events Ritchie Hall | Earth, Energy & Environment Center 1414 Naismith Drive, Room 254 Lawrence, KS 66045 geology@ku.edu 785-864-4974 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Degrees Offered Give to KU Geology Facilities and Labs Colloquium Series KU Geology Events Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.