Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Geography Department of Geography Contact Us Facebook Twitter Geography@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Research Student Research Postdoctoral Fellowships Facilities Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Study News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Off-Campus Study The Geography Department’s off campus program takes place at Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic. Prague Family. 2013 Marked the 20th Anniversary of our Foreign Study Program in Prague. PreviousNext About Prague & Our Program Prague emerged relatively unscathed from World War II and the Cold War and continues to offer an array of stunning architecture from many periods including Romanesque, Medieval, Renaissance, and Baroque. This culturally rich city of about 1.3 million people, with relatively inexpensive concerts, opera and theater, has become one of the cosmopolitan hubs of Central Europe. It now faces the challenges of tourism, rising socioeconomic inequality, and historical preservation in the midst of rapid modernization. In and beyond the capital city, the Czech Republic’s peoples continue to negotiate relations with the European Union, as well as the environmental, economic and social legacies of the socialist era. Students will discover myriad opportunities for cross-cultural learning. Situated in the heart of Europe, Prague is only a few hours away from other cultural centers such as Vienna, Warsaw, Berlin, and Budapest. Founded in 1348, Charles University is one of the oldest universities in the world and has a 35-member Department of Social Geography. Application Deadline Application deadline for Prague Foreign Study Program is February 1, 2022. For more information: https://guarini.dartmouth.edu/programs/geography-fsp-prague Curriculum Geography 36.01: The Czech Republic in the New Europe (in English, by Charles University faculty). Geography 37.01: Social and Physical Landscapes of the Czech Republic (jointly taught by the Dartmouth professor and Charles University faculty). Geography 86: Independent Study in the Czech Republic (independent study guided by the Dartmouth professor). The program will be preceded by an orientation period that includes an intensive program in basic conversational Czech. Structured field trips will be central to the research in both Geography 37.01 and Geography 86. Prerequisites GEOG 1.02 or 2.01 and one course numbered between 15 and 59, or permission of instructor. A minimum of one methods course (Geography 9, 11, or 12) is strongly encouraged. Our Host in Prague The Foreign Study Program - Charles University Learn More Links to Information About Prague & Neighboring Areas Charles University Prague Information 36 Hours in Prague (NY Times) The Cultured Traveler Warsaw's wild side Our Host in Prague Charles University 36 Hours in Prague (NY Times) The Cultured Traveler Neighboring Prague: Warsaw's wild side Prague Information Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Geography Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Research Overview Faculty Research Student Research Postdoctoral Fellowships Facilities Off-Campus Study News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback