Skip to Content Toggle navigation Menu Geosciences Departments & Centers Directory Giving News & Events Atmospheric Sciences Geography Geology & Geophysics Oceanography Environmental Programs Water Management & Hydrological Science Online Programs Geobusiness Resources Berg-Hughes Center for Petroleum and Sedimentary Systems Center for Atmospheric Chemistry & the Environment Center for Geospatial Sciences, Applications & Technology Center for Tectonophysics Geochemical and Environmental Research Group International Ocean Discovery Program Texas Sea Grant Southern Regional Climate Center Tell Me About Majors & Minors Academic Advisor Careers in Geography Cool Classes for Non-Majors Labs & Services Graduate Programs Toggle navigation Menu Toggle navigation About About Geography Leadership & Vision Diversity and Climate in Geosciences Contact Us Giving Awards & Recognition Employment Opportunities Outreach History Seminar Schedule Academics Overview Academic Advisor Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Online Programs Future Students Howdy! What is Geography? Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Careers in Geography Transfers & Major Changers Transfer Pathways Academic Advisor How to Apply Visit Us Student Resources Student Success Cool Classes for Non-Majors Department Resources Seminar Schedule Living Learning Communities Medallion Scholars Program Academic Advisor Transfers & Major Changers Careers in Geography Undergraduate Research Internships Grad Student Resources Application Process Admission Requirements Program Curriculum Funding Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate Policy Manual International Students Master of Geoscience Elements of a Strong Application People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Post Docs Staff Graduate Students Research Geography Research Physical Geography GIST Human-Environment Undergraduate Research Labs & Services College News & Events Inside Geosciences College of Geosciences Departments Atmospheric SciencesGeographyGeology & GeophysicsOceanographyEnvironmental ProgramsWater Management and Hydrological Science Centers Berg-Hughes Center for Petroleum and Sedimentary SystemsCenter for Atmospheric Chemistry and the EnvironmentCenter for Geospatial Sciences, Applications and TechnologyGeochemical and Environmental Research GroupInternational Ocean Discovery ProgramSouthern Regional Climate CenterOffice of the Texas State ClimatologistCenter for TectonophysicsTexas Center for Climate StudiesTexas Sea Grant Offices Academic AdvisingBusinessCommunicationsDean's OfficeInformation TechnologyRecruitingOffice of the State Climatologist Texas A&M University Department of Geography Your browser does not support the video tag. Coming Fall 2022 The Department of Geography is becoming part of the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. Learn more about the College of Arts and Sciences HOWDY Texas A&M University Apply Now Visit Geosciences Visit Texas A&M Explore Geography Our Majors See them all Transfers and Major Changers Graduate Programs Online Programs Coolest jobs on the planet Careers for Geographers Leaders in research Department Research Labs and Services "Two years ago, I was on academic probation and feeling lost, but now I’m here, celebrating my first-generation accomplishments and about to graduate" - Leslie Vallecillo '21 Read Leslie's First-Gen Story Faculty and Student Focus Dr. Julie Loisel Texas A&M Geography's Dr. Julie Loisel says that preserving and restoring peatlands can help the world tackle the climate crisis. Read Dr. Loisel's Story Grad Student Manuel Salgado Manuel Salgado, a Ph.D. student in the Department of Geography, has led a non-traditional journey to higher-education. Today he’s an experienced field researcher and teaching assistant, and reflects on some of the challenges he’s faced in his career. Read Manuel's Story Yell Leader Woods Johnson '22 Senior Woods Johnson is looking forward to representing Texas A&M and completing his GIST degree in the Department of Geography. Read Woods' Story “Geographic information science and technology (GIST) is one of the cornerstones of modern data-driven applications, modeling and decision-making. The GIS job market is booming. In science and technology fields, GIS skills give Aggies a leg-up on the competition.” Dr. Dan Goldberg, Associate Professor in Geography News Scientists Find Gaps In Global River And Stream Monitoring New research co-authored by a Texas A&M scientist analyzed placement of stream gauges that inform important global water datasets. Wendy Jepson Named American Association of Geographers Fellow, Chancellor’s EDGES Fellow Jepson is an internationally recognized water security researcher. Graduating Senior Talks Adventure, Equestrian And Jumping Into The Workforce Geography graduating senior Alexandra King is excited to begin her geospatial career after commencement in December. Texas A&M Geosciences Announces 2021 Distinguished Achievement Awards Three outstanding geoscientists will receive the awards during the Distinguished Achievement Awards Gala Jan. 14, 2022. My First-Gen Story: Leslie Vallecillo ’21 After nearly dropping out of Texas A&M two years ago, Leslie Vallecillo ’21 will graduate this December with a degree in geographic information science and technology, and minors in meteorology and geography. Geosciences Celebrates First-Generation Students About one out of four Aggies are first-generation college students, and this week the university is celebrating their accomplishments and determination. More Geosciences News Events More Geosciences Events Department of Geography Texas A&M University 3147 TAMU College Station, Texas 77843-3147 Eller O&M 810 geogfrontoffice@geos.tamu.edu (979) 845-7141 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Explore Geography © College of Geosciences Texas A&M University Webmaster Emergency Protocol Accessibility Policies State of Texas Texas Veterans Portal Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Notice of Nondiscrimination Institutional Resumes Accountability Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Texas CREWS Texas A&M University is a member of The Texas A&M University System