Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Geography Department of Geography Contact Us Facebook Twitter Geography@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Research Student Research Postdoctoral Fellowships Facilities Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Study News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Rena Schwartz '22 and Joseph Earles '24 Rena Schwartz '22 and Joseph Earles '24 won the first-place award of the student poster competition in the NEARC Spring 2022 Conference (Nort Justin Mankin quoted NHPR There are a few key ingredients that lead to wildfires Angela Zhang '12 Wins Social Worker Award Angela Zhang '12 Geography Major receives Social Worker Award from Listen Madeline Kroot '19 Graduate Research Fellowship Ten Dartmouth students and alumni have been awarded National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowships for 2022, and another nine received honorable mentions. Faculty Reacts to Dire Climate Report The IPCC has shifted from saying it is "virtually certain" human influence has warmed the ocean, atmosphere, and land to saying it is "unequivocal." said Jonathan Winter, Associate Professor of Geography. Justin Mankin Discussing Global Warming in The Washington Post "Extreme snowstorms, even in the face of longer-term declines in winter snow, are entirely consistent with the effects of global warming." Jonathan Winter Discusses How Using Groundwater Sustainably Would Affect Key Crops Irrigated farming of corn, soybean, and wheat may decrease in some areas of the U.S. Frank Magilligan and Mona Domosh Named AAG Fellows The geographers are recognized for significant contributions to the field. Book Conversation with Professor Abigail Neely All are invited to a conversation with Abigail Neely, Assistant Professor of Geography and AAAS, to discuss her new book, "Reimagining Social Medicine from the South." The conversation will be moderated by Sienna Craig, Anthropology; Naaborko Sackeyfio-Lenoch, History and AAAS; and Susanne Freidberg, Geography. Finding Predictability in the Uncertainty of Snow Drought Justin Mankin and Alex Gottlieb create an innovative approach to assessing snow conditions. Recent Publications view all The politics of pixels: A review and agenda for critical remote sensing Bennett, M. M., Chen, J. K., Luis F. ALVAREZ LEÓN, Gleason, C. J. Progress in Human Geography. 2022 Eastern US precipitation investigated through patterns of moisture transport Natalie Teale , David A. Robinson Physical Geography (2022): 1-25. On the emerging global relevance of atmospheric rivers and impacts on landscapes and water resources Ramseyer, Craig A., , Natalie Teale Progress in Physical Geography: Earth and Environment 45.6 (2021): 965-978. Industry Emergence and Market Capture: The Rise of Autonomous Vehicles Luis F. ALVAREZ LEÓN, Aoyama, Y. Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 180, 121661. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Geography Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Research Overview Faculty Research Student Research Postdoctoral Fellowships Facilities Off-Campus Study News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback