Florida State University Search for: Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Alumni Geography College of Social Sciences & Public Policy Department of Geography Prospective Students Apply Masters in GIS Masters in Geography PhD in Geography New & Current Students Student Quick Start Guide Funding Teaching Travel Student Organizations Undergraduate Bachelors in Environment & Society Bachelors in Geography Bachelor's/Master's Pathways Undergraduate Classes Graduate Masters in GIS Masters in Geography PhD in Geography Degree Checklists Graduate Classes Community Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Faculty Affiliates Department Overview Faculty Expertise Department Organization Research Facilities Bylaws 🌎 Make a Gift For the latest information related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus Tweets by FSU_Geography Welcome to Geography! Florida State Geography is a hub for the spatially inquisitive. Whether it is understanding the roles of climate in shifting species distributions, deconstructing the processes that shape the growth and development of cities, using computational models to study changes in species distribution, unveiling social inequities through trends in municipal bonds, exploring the interactions of people and their dependence on aquatic habitats, or building technical skills through the implementation of remote sensing, programming, and Geographic Information Systems, our faculty and students dive into a myriad of subjects touching numerous corners of our world. These are only a few of the areas our department’s talent pursues. Geography is a field built on three pillars – the human, the physical, and the technical. By advancing basic knowledge as a foundation for problem-solving, and exposing students to a wide variety of applications across diverse interests, Geography equips its scholars with skill sets that are increasingly marketable in a world of complex questions. Many of our graduates, researchers, and faculty employ skills in geospatial science, statistics, and critical analysis. The trained geographer has the ability to identify issues or phenomena, ask appropriate questions, and deploy techniques from perspectives unique to the field and for the benefit of society. Are you interested in how human beings interact with their environment? Do you want to understand the roots of environmental injustice? Are you a tech fan looking to leverage the power of GIS, automation, and spatial statistics? Have you ever considered how remote sensing could impact the trajectory of an entire industry? Perhaps you find yourself thinking of how people develop both physical and social constructs. If so… Consider Florida State Geography Chris Uejio receives a $1M CDC grant to address climate impact on health. Stephanie Pau and colleagues show that increasing flowering activity in Panama is linked to rising atmospheric carbon dioxide. Dr. Sarah Lester studying the coral reefs in Moorea, French Polynesia. Aerial drone image of Lake Jackson, Florida. Courtesy of Ph.D. Student Austin Bush. PhD student Jennifer McHenry and her graduate professor study how seagrass beds provide societal benefits and support biodiversity with a grant from the National Academies Gulf Research Program. Trina Merrick and Stephanie Pau with colleagues complete installation of tower-based remote sensing instruments, such as an eddy covariance flux system and a thermal camera on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, to study carbon fluxes of a tropical forest canopy. We, in the Department of Geography at Florida State University, acknowledge that our university is located on land that is the ancestral and traditional territory of the Apalachee Nation, the Muscogee Creek Nation, the Miccosukee Tribe of Florida, and the Seminole Tribe of Florida. We pay our respects to their Elders past and present and extend that respect to their descendants, to the generations yet unborn, and to all Indigenous peoples. In doing so, we support the movement for a Native American and Indigenous Studies Center on campus.Faculty and staff of the Florida State University Department of Geography Contact Us Location BEL 323 Phone 850-644-1706 Mailing Address Geography P.O. Box 3062160 113 Collegiate Loop Tallahassee, Florida 32306 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright