Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Geography Department of Geography Contact Us Facebook Twitter Geography@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Research Student Research Postdoctoral Fellowships Facilities Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Study News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Dean of Faculty office Opportunities Dickey Center for International Understanding Opportunities Rockefeller Center Opportunities Share Senior Honors Thesis Senior Honors Thesis Students must apply to the honors thesis program by May 15 submitting a formal letter of application and a preliminary proposal to the department. The department offers preliminary acceptance to the honors program based on these documents. In addition, students normally must have a minimum GPA of 3.5 in the major and a GPA of 3.33 overall. Proposals and research plans are developed further in Geography 90 during fall quarter. The department will select an appropriate advisor and two committee members for each successful honor thesis application. The advisor and committee oversee the student's progress, provide a means of communication between the student and the department, and ultimately make a recommendation to the department about the quality of the thesis. The typical course sequence associated with an honors thesis begins with G90 (Fall), followed by G85 (Winter) and G87 in the Spring Term. Many students support their scholarship with research grants; thesis students are strongly encouraged to explore the options available at: Dean of Faculty office Dickey Center for International Understanding Rockefeller Center Please pay special attention to the different deadlines. When, on occasion, support from these places is limited or unavailable, student may also apply to Geography for research support. Full, formal proposals must be submitted to the department at the latest by November 1 by emailing kelly.l.palmer@dartmouth.edu. The department may vote to reject a proposal and relays its comments to the students through the thesis committee. The following timetable is for spring quarter; dates for other quarters should be adjusted accordingly. This is the minimum recommended schedule for the completion of theses, but advisors may modify this schedule at their discretion. Timetable for Completion of Honors Theses The following timetable is for spring quarter; dates for other quarters should be adjusted accordingly. This is the minimum recommended schedule for the completion of theses, but advisors may modify this schedule at their discretion. April 15 or earlier Preliminary draft to advisor. This draft, while not necessarily complete, should include all major chapters. May 1 First draft to thesis committee, including advisor. This draft should hve been completely read by the adviser and serves as a basis for the thesis defense, and for comments by the committee. May 5-20 Thesis public presentation and defense. The department will schedule the presentation and defense at times mutually convenient to the student, the committee members, and the department. The presentation precedes the defense, although they may occur on the same day. Presentations are formal, public lectures, open to the College community. Only the student and the committee attend the defense. The defense is an opportunity for the committee to provide detailed, interactive feedback to the student about the thesis. Based on the first draft, the presentation and the defense, the committee votes to classify the thesis as honors or non-honors. If a thesis is judged to be non-honors, the student will receive credit for Independent Study (Geography 85) or Senior Thesis (Geography 87). Typically, the committee awards honors contingent on satisfactory revision of the thesis. At the discretion of the committee, they may also advise the student of revisions that will make the thesis eligible for high honors. May 30 (or approximately 7 days before grades are due) Final draft due to the advisor. This draft should include all of the revisions required by the committee. (Oversight of these revisions is the responsibility of the advisor and committee.) The advisor will use this draft to assign the student's grades for Geography 85 and 87, and the department will use it to evaluate the potential for high honors. June 4-5 (or approximately 1-2 days before grades are due to the registrar) The department meets as a whole to evaluate all theses, and votes on high honors. Completed Thesis Geography Department pays for 3 bound copies; two copies for Rauner Library and one for the main advisor. Gnonom Copy in Hanover prints bound copies. When geography copies are ready Kelly will pick up from Gnomon. This needs to be complete before graduation. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Geography Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Courses Culminating Experience Senior Honors Thesis Awards Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Research Overview Faculty Research Student Research Postdoctoral Fellowships Facilities Off-Campus Study News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback