Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Geological Sciences Main Navigation DEGREES STUDENT INFO PEOPLE RESEARCH EVENTS & NEWS ALUMNI FORMS CONTACT US GIVING department advising is required for ALL incoming Earth Science (B.A.) AND Geology (B.S.) students BEFORE registering for the Fall 2022 semester. VISIT ADVISING PAGE TO SIGN UP. For registration issues and permits for Geology courses, please e-mail Desirae Terrell - dterrell@Fullerton.edu For registration issues and permits for Geology courses, please e-mail Desirae Terrell - dterrell@Fullerton.edu "Quake Chasers" Book Lauch May 11, 2022, 4:00PM P.T. By Lori Polydoros MH-341 COMMENCEMENT May 24, 2022, 9:00AM P.T. Tuesday Titan Stadium Please support the Department of Geological Sciences crowdfunding effort to enhance and endow our scholarships. Click Give button to donate. Thank you for your support! See calendar for more events. Welcome FROM THE DEPARTMENT CHAIR Welcome to the Department of Geological Sciences at C.S.U.F!! I invite you to explore these pages to learn about our department, including our student-centered courses and the incredible research our students and faculty are doing locally, regionally, and around the world. Check out the “Where in the World” poster that shows where you might find C.S.U.F. geologists. What programs do we offer? Well, we offer two undergraduate degrees – B.S. in Geology and B.A. in Earth Science, an M.S. in Geology, and a minor in Geology. Nearly all of our courses include high-impact field and/or lab learning environments with ample opportunity for original student research. Both our B.S. and M.S. in Geology require an intensive thesis. Our B.A. in Earth Science is designed to offer maximum flexibility to enable students to choose a set of courses that align with their academic and career goals. As our well-established alumni could attest, C.S.U.F. geology graduates continue to be highly sought-after by both employers and grad schools. That’s some of the Dirt! Adam Woods, Chair This site is maintained by Geological Sciences. Last Published 5/23/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mwilken@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.