Skip to Content Toggle navigation Menu Geosciences Departments & Centers Directory Giving News & Events Atmospheric Sciences Geography Geology & Geophysics Oceanography Environmental Programs Water Management & Hydrological Science Online Programs Geobusiness Resources Berg-Hughes Center for Petroleum and Sedimentary Systems Center for Atmospheric Chemistry & the Environment Center for Geospatial Sciences, Applications & Technology Center for Tectonophysics Geochemical and Environmental Research Group International Ocean Discovery Program Texas Sea Grant Southern Regional Climate Center Tell Me About Majors & Minors Academic Advisors Careers in Geology and Geophysics Graduate Programs Facilities Toggle navigation Menu Toggle navigation About About the Department Leadership & Vision Diversity and Climate in Geosciences History What are Geology & Geophysics? Employment Opportunities Giving Contact Us Geology and Geophysics Department Advisory Committee Donors & Partners Academics Academics Overview Academic Advisors Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Camps & Outreach Future Students Howdy! Majors & Minors Graduate Programs Careers in Geology & Geophysics Major Changers Transfer Student Information Academic Advisors How to Apply Visit Us Undergraduate Students Student Success Academic Advisors Advising Resources Major Changers Careers in Geology & Geophysics Medallion Scholars Program Living Learning Communities Student Opportunities Cool Geosciences Classes Graduate Students Graduate Programs Admission Requirements Application Process Funding International Students Graduate Policy Manual Academic Advisors People Faculty Adjunct, Emeritus, & Visiting Faculty Scientists & Post Docs Office Staff Academic Advisors Graduate Students Research Environmental and Engineering Geology and Geophysics Geology & Geophysics Research Earth Resources & Resilience Ancient Life & Environments The Earth System and other Planetary Bodies Seminar Schedule Facilities College News & Events Inside Geosciences College of Geosciences Departments Atmospheric SciencesGeographyGeology & GeophysicsOceanographyEnvironmental ProgramsWater Management and Hydrological Science Centers Berg-Hughes Center for Petroleum and Sedimentary SystemsCenter for Atmospheric Chemistry and the EnvironmentCenter for Geospatial Sciences, Applications and TechnologyGeochemical and Environmental Research GroupInternational Ocean Discovery ProgramSouthern Regional Climate CenterOffice of the Texas State ClimatologistCenter for TectonophysicsTexas Center for Climate StudiesTexas Sea Grant Offices Academic AdvisingBusinessCommunicationsDean's OfficeInformation TechnologyRecruitingOffice of the State Climatologist Texas A&M University Department of Geology & Geophysics Your browser does not support the video tag. Coming Fall 2022 The Department of Geology & Geophysics is becoming part of the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. Learn more about the College of Arts and Sciences HOWDY Texas A&M University Apply Now Visit Geosciences Visit Texas A&M Our Programs Majors & Minors Major Changers Graduate Programs Online Programs Coolest Jobs on the Planet Careers for Geologists and Geophysicists Geology & Geophysics Research Ancient Life & Environments The Earth System & Other Planetary Bodies Earth Resources & Resilience Labs and Services 2022 Undergraduate Summer School on Rock Deformation This summer school will provide undergraduate students a unique opportunity to learn about research in experimental rock deformation through hands-on laboratory activities and is completely free of charge. Applications are due by May 27th. Learn more about this opportunity Faculty Focus Dr. Christina Belanger Dr. Christina Belanger, assistant professor in the Department of Geology and Geophysics, was awarded a prestigious CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Read about her award Dr. Nick Perez Dr. Nick Perez, assistant professor in the Department of Geology and Geophysics, was awarded a prestigious CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Read Dr. Perez's Story Dr. David Bapst Dr. David Bapst, instructional assistant professor in the Department of Geology and Geophysics, was named a 2021 ConocoPhillips Data Science Faculty Fellow for his help creating the Undergraduate Certificate in Data Analytics for the Petroleum Industry (CERT-DAPI). Read Dr. Bapst's Story News Christina Belanger Receives NSF CAREER Award With the prestigious award, Belanger will provide first-generation students the opportunity to participate in research aimed at building global benthic foraminiferal database Mysterious Dunes on Jupiter's Moon Explained By Scientists' New Model New research co-authored by Texas A&M’s Dr. Ryan Ewing shows how dunes on Jupiter’s volcanically active moon, lo, were formed. Geology And Geophysics Students Experience Carbonates Up Close On Field Study Trip To The Bahamas Dr. Juan Carlos Laya and undergraduate students spent an extended spring break in The Bahamas to investigate a modern carbonate platform From First-Generation Student To Texas A&M Donor Joanne and Lee Billingsley reflect on their fond Texas A&M memories and their inspiration for giving to the Department of Geology and Geophysics. Tonga Eruption Is One For The Record Books Department of Geology and Geophysics Professor Dr. Andreas Kronenberg explains why the recent Tonga eruption was one of the strongest ever recorded. Texas A&M Geosciences Announces 2021 Distinguished Achievement Awards Three outstanding geoscientists will receive the awards during the Distinguished Achievement Awards Gala Jan. 14, 2022. More Geosciences News Events More Geosciences Events Geology & Geophysics Texas A&M University 3115 TAMU College Station, Texas 77843-3115 Halbouty 108 info@geos.tamu.edu (979) 845-6401 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn © College of Geosciences Texas A&M University Webmaster Emergency Protocol Accessibility Policies State of Texas Texas Veterans Portal Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Notice of Nondiscrimination Institutional Resumes Accountability Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Texas CREWS Texas A&M University is a member of The Texas A&M University System