Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Federation of German-American Clubs Share One-Year Exchange Program For many years, Dartmouth and the Federation of German-American Clubs have maintained a junior-year exchange program. Each year a German student selected by the Federation comes to Dartmouth, and a Dartmouth student spends two semesters at one of the eligible universities. Learn more If you are interested in this exchange, please consult the Chair of the Department of German Studies. Applications are due before the end of the previous year’s fall term. The German academic year runs from mid-October through mid-July. Financial details The Dartmouth student pays a fee to help offset the cost of the exchange (in 2014-15, that was $4,319 per term; any future increase will match the percentage increase in tuition). At the same time, the student receives a living allowance in Germany: presently € 6,000 for the year. There is no tuition. The Federation locates inexpensive housing and helps with all of the paperwork. It also makes a German Railroad Card available. Because the German exchange is an official arrangement, the Dartmouth student does not need to pay the transfer term fee that the college charges to students who go somewhere else on their own. Dartmouth participants on financial aid are eligible to apply their aid toward program-related expenses. Transfer Credit You may receive up to nine course credits in any subjects for which Dartmouth accepts transfer credit. Students seeking transfer credit must apply in advance, completing the Registrar’s application for prior approval of exchange transfer course credit. The form requires signatures from the chair(s) of the Dartmouth department(s) in whose subjects you want the transfer credits. Learn more about the regulations. Course Changes If you had an approved plan for an exchange or transfer term at another institution, but you find after enrollment that your approved course is not available, you must apply for approval of a substitute course through the Registrar’s Office. Transcripts When you have completed the transfer term, you must personally request that an official transcript from the host institution be sent directly to the Dartmouth College Registrar’s Office. All transcripts must be on file in the Registrar's Office by the end of the term immediately following the transfer term. You will not receive credit in your record until Dartmouth's Registrar receives an official transcript from the transfer institution. Course hours Most German university courses meet for two hours a week, meaning that the number of contact hours during a 14-week semester is slightly under Dartmouth’s minimum of 30 hours. Students on the full-year exchange can still receive nine credits for nine courses taken in Germany, assuming that the respective departments have approved those courses. Students who spend just one semester in Germany (only by special arrangement) must take five courses to receive four credits. All five must be approved, and you can then choose which of them will be counted toward the total number of hours. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback