Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Share German/Engineering FSP View of Berlin from the Siegessäule PreviousNext About this Program: Green City is a joint foreign study program between the Department of German Studies and the Thayer School of Engineering that will be piloted in the spring 2022. This program invites students to combine engineering coursework that focuses on "green" and sustainable engineering with a fast-track German course (GERM 2–3) that satisfies Dartmouth's foreign language requirement. It is also open to students who already have German language skills beyond the beginner's level. The program takes place in Berlin, Germany's self-proclaimed "capital of sustainability." It takes students to a full-immersion setting and cultural environment in which sustainability is a lived practice. The program structure is flexible, giving students options to customize their course choices in accordance with their D-plans. Green and sustainable engineering is one of the most innovative and most pressing topics of our time. But how do you truly embrace sustainability? What does it mean to live sustainably on an every-day level? How might concepts of sustainability in action, and shared by many, alter the urban landscape of a city? Studying such questions from textbooks in a traditional classroom is one thing. Experiencing them in practice is another thing entirely and the most important learning objective of Green City. Living with host families in Berlin, students will develop critical awareness of different sustainable lifestyles and come to critically reflect upon the ways in which they themselves interact with the environment. The program thus has three main goals: Green City not only seeks to impart concretely applicable skills in sustainable and environmental engineering as well as in the German language and culture to students; it also requires students to think about how their day-to-day experiences with sustainable living and their engineering knowledge are mediated by a foreign language and different cultural context. In this way, students will gain an expansive, historically rich, and culturally reflected understanding of sustainability that goes far beyond what can be learned in a traditional classroom. In the engineering courses, students will acquire theoretical knowledge and applicable technological skills pertaining to sustainable design, environmental engineering, pollution prevention and remediation, alternative energy, greener engineering, and sustainable cities. As an example, among the objectives in ENGS 37 is for students to be able to design a filtration device that removes fine particles from a gas, while ENGS 45 includes the objective to teach students to document and quantify the several ways by which a large city depends upon and alters surrounding natural ecosystems. In the German courses, students will acquire linguistic skills and intercultural competencies to communicate effectively in German, to analyze a wide range of literary and historical source materials, and to understand the historical and contemporary significance of Berlin as Germany's capital and cultural center. For instance, in GERM 2–3, students learn how to give reasons for their opinions and actions and how to describe events in the past, present, and future orally and in writing, whereas in GERM 40, students learn how to interpret different representations of Berlin in literature, architecture, and art as reflections of historical change. Green City will bring engineering knowledge and German language and cultural skills into an ongoing dialogue. Engaging in this dialog, students will gain an increasingly complex understanding of sustainable living, sustainable urban design, and their own roles in—and impact on—the urban landscape through the contrastive foil of a different linguistic and cultural context. Academic Program: Faculty Directors: Petra McGillen and Petra Bonfert-Taylor Curriculum: Students choose any three from the following four courses: ENGS 37: Introduction to Environmental Engineering ENGS 45 (tentative number): Sustainable Cities GERM 2–3: Fast-Track German GERM 40.01 (tentative number): Metropolis Berlin. Taught in English with optional German major/minor credit. Prerequisites: GERM 1 (Introductory German) or equivalent German language skills; MATH 3 (Intro to Calculus). Additional prerequisites vary depending on the choice of courses. For ENGS 37: CHEM 5 (General Chemistry); For ENGS 45: ENGS 37 (Introduction to Environmental Engineering) or equivalent; For GERM 40.01 with German major/minor credit: two intermediate-level German classes (GERM 5, 6, or 10). Without the German major/minor credit option, GERM 40.01 has no prerequisites. Student Life and Cultural Program Students live with trusted homestay families, many of which have longstanding ties with Dartmouth. The cultural program will include numerous excursions, such as trips to Sanssouci Palace and the Filmpark Babelsberg in Potsdam, the memorial site Sachsenhausen, the Mauerpark and Checkpoint Charlie, and a historical tour of the Berlin subway. It will also include visits to the opera, concerts, museums, and cinemas from Berlin's vibrant cultural offerings. In addition, the program will feature day trips (e.g. to the Volkswagen manufacturing plant in Wolfsburg) and one extended overnight trip to Zurich, Switzerland. Overnight stops in the Rhine Valley, the Ruhrgebiet, and Munich will provide opportunities to study how culturally and historically diverse regions are dealing with the challenges of sustainable living, mobility, and industrial production. Application Process and Faculty Contacts: The application deadline is February 1, 2021. Please apply through The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. For questions about this program, please contact the Faculty Program Directors: Petra McGillen, Associate Professor, Department of German Studies, petra.mcgillen@dartmouth.edu; Petra Bonfert-Taylor, Professor of Engineering, Thayer School of Engineering, petra.b.taylor@dartmouth.edu. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback