Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Irene Kacandes Academic Appointments Professor of German Studies Professor of Comparative Literature The Dartmouth Professor of German Studies and Comparative Literature Irene Kacandes, The Dartmouth Professor of German and Comparative Literature, chaired the Department of German Studies from 2008-2011. She studied at the Free University of Berlin and as a Fulbright Scholar at Aristotle University in Thessaloniki. In 1991 she completed her Ph.D. in Comparative Literature at Harvard and taught at the University of Texas before coming to Dartmouth in 1994. Her interests in German range from Goethe and Kleist to Grass and Christa Wolf, and she has also published studies on Modern Greek literature. Specializing in narrative theory, cultural studies, and life writing, she has written articles concerning orality and literacy, feminist linguistics, trauma and memory studies, the Holocaust and Holocaust memoir, and experimental memoirs. In 2001 The University of Nebraska Press issued her Talk Fiction: Literature and the Talk Explosion as the first volume of its "Frontiers of Narrative Series," and in 2009 UNP published Daddy's War: Greek American Stories. A Paramemoir. Let's Talk About Death, co-written with Steve Gordon, appeared with Prometheus Books (2015). The Chinese translation has appeared in the PRC. She is the co-editor of A User's Guide to German Cultural Studies (1997); with Marianne Hirsch, of Teaching the Representation of the Holocaust, published by the Modern Language Association in 2004; with Kathryn Abrams of an issue of Women's Studies Quarterly on "Witness"; and with her colleague Yuliya Komska of Eastern Europe Unmapped (Berghahn 2017). She edited and authored essays for the anthology On Being Adjacent to Historical Violence (De Gruyter, 2022). Irene has served in a number of international leadership positions, including as president of the International Society for the Study of Narrative and of the German Studies Association. She runs a book series on "Interdisciplinary German Cultural Studies" at De Gruyter Verlag in Berlin. Her current research concerns the concept of co-witnessing which she has proposed as a role for those who were not the targets of a trauma but who want to testify to those who were. This interest also resulted in co-founding with a former student the FB group "Doing Something." View Curriculum Vitae Contact Irene.Kacandes@Dartmouth.EDU 2639 338 Dartmouth Hall HB 6084 Education A.B. Harvard-Radcliffe College Freie Universität, Berlin Aristotle University, Thessaloniki A.M. Harvard University Ph.D. Harvard University Areas of Expertise comparative literature /the novel /life writing /trauma and memory studies /narrative theory /German cultural studies /orality, literacy, secondary orality /Holocaust studies /co-witnessing /end of life issues /experimental memoir /paramemoir Selected Publications “’And What About Your Mother?’” On Being Adjacent to Historical Violence. Edited Irene Kacandes. Berlin: De Gruyter Verlag. 2022. 299-314. “How Co-Witnessing Could Transform the Post-Pandemic World.” # 10. In 13 Perspectives on the Pandemic: Thinking in a State of Exception. Ed. Rabea Rittgerodt. Berlin: de Gruyter Verlag, 2020. “A Polish Childhood.” Eastern Europe Unmapped: Beyond Borders and Peripheries. Eds. Irene Kacandes and Yuliya Komska. New York: Berghahn Books, 2017. 248-268. “Die Ungnade der späten Geburt: Challenges in the Twenty-First Century for Central Europeans. The German Studies Association Presidential Address 2016.” German Studies Review 40.2 (2017): 389-405. Daddy's War: Greek American Stories: A Paramemoir. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 2009. Paperback edition 2012. “Laying Claim to Painful Truths in Survivor- and Perpetrator-Family Memoir.” In Persistent Legacy. The Holocaust and German Studies. Eds. Erin McGlothlin and Jennifer M. Kapczynski. Rochester: Boydell & Brower/Camden House, 2016. 178-193. Talk Fiction: Literature and the Talk Explosion , (Frontiers of Narrative Series), (2001). Let's Talk about Death, with Steve Gordon (2015). Chinese translation with new foreword by the authors, 2019. "Experimental Life Writing" in Routledge Encyclopedia of Experimental Literature. Eds. Joe Bray, Alison Gibson, Brian McHale. London: Routledge, 2012. 380-312. "Displacement, Trauma, Language, Identity." in Women Writers at the Crossroads of Language. Eds. Valérie Cossy et al. Geneva: MetisPresses, 2009. 213-228. + View more Speaking Engagements “Paramemoir Revisited.” Plenary. Experimental Life Writing Conference. University of Wroclaw, Poland. April 22, 2022. “Considering weiter leben and Still Alive in the Context of Holocaust Life Narratives. In memoriam. Ruth Klüger. University of California, Irvine. February 13, 2021. Works In Progress “An Anatomy of Family Memory” “Testimony and Co-Witnessing after the Holocaust” Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback