Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies Resources Information on places across Brown University and International to enhance your German Studies learning. Breadcrumb Home Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Resources Information on places across Brown University and International to enhance your German Studies learning. Brown University Cogut Institute for the Humanities We expect our graduate students to participate in the Cogut Institute for the Humanities at Brown University. The institute organizes events such as lecture series, symposia and conferences and also provides a number of fellowship opportunities to faculty and graduate students. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Students are also encouraged to become engaged in the activities of the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning and to build strong teaching portfolios with the help of the Center and by availing themselves of departmental resources such as supervised teaching. Collections John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library The John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library is the primary teaching and research library for the humanities at Brown. It has an excellent collection in German Studies and related fields of interest. John Hay Library Various other specialized collections are located in the John Hay Library Orwig Music Library Various other specialized collections are located in the Orwig Music Library. Brown University participates in a collaboration with other research libraries in the New England area so that faculty and students have access to any material they might need. International University of Tübingen The department has a cotutelle agreement with the University of Tübingen that allows students to pursue a combined Dr. phil. / Ph.D. degree. Students interested in this option should contact the Director of Graduate Studies upon entering the program. Humboldt University in Berlin Graduate students in their third or fourth years have the option to apply for a one-semester stay at the Humboldt University in Berlin. In their application, they must state clearly why their research would benefit from spending a semester in Berlin and whom they have chosen as their mentor while at the Humboldt University. A letter in support of the project from the mentor should accompany the application. Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor The Department regularly welcomes a Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor of German Studies who teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in the program. Recent visiting faculty include: Sven Kramer (2011, Lüneburg), Dieter Thomä (2012, St. Gallen), Dirk Oschmann (2013, Leipzig), and Alexander García Düttmann (2015, Berlin). In addition, in recent years the philosopher and critic David Farrell Krell has served as the Department’s Brauer Distinguished Visiting Professor. Additional Information Graduate Students Learn about our current graduate students. Recent Ph.D Placement See what recent German Studies Ph.D. Graduates are doing. Requirements Information about coursework, foreign language requirements, the qualifying exam, dissertation and teaching. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Resources Open details for Resources Bookmark this Page