Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies Coursework Information about course from beginning to advanced and the placement test for german. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Coursework Information about course from beginning to advanced and the placement test for german. GRMN 0100- GRMN 0400 Beginning and intermediate courses where students learn to read, write and converse in German. GRMN 0110 Intensive Beginning German allows the student to complete beginning German in one semester. GRMN 0400 After successfully completing GRMN 0400, students may elect coursework depending upon their interests. GRMN 0500 and GRMN 0600 are designed to integrate further intensive work on language skills with semester-long introductions to aspects of German culture. There is no required sequencing among courses beginning with GRMN 0500. Students must complete GRMN 0500 or get permission from the instructor to proceed to any course above that which is taught in German. Naturally, courses taught in English are open to all. GRMN 0600+ Courses above GRMN 0600 are taught in German or in English and are designed to allow students to pursue specialized interests such as literature, film, media theory, theater studies, aesthetics, philosophy, etc. These courses are mostly discussion-oriented, and students are encouraged to engage critically with both primary and secondary texts. Concentration Advisor Consult the concentration advisor Kristina_Mendicino@brown.edu, for advice about which courses are most appropriate for you. German Placement Test The Online Placement Test for German is available for students in Canvas. Learn More Additional Information Courses The Department of German Studies offers a set of courses that covers the range from beginning language instruction to graduate seminars. Explore Undergraduate and Graduate course listing for Spring 2022. Concentration The Concentration in German Studies offers students an interdisciplinary approach to German culture in a wide variety of areas. Student Information Information on transfer credit, prizes and teaching opportunities. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Coursework Open details for Coursework Bookmark this Page