Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Petra S. McGillen Academic Appointments Associate Professor of German Studies Connect with Us Twitter "You're right; our writing tools take part in the forming of our thoughts," Friedrich Nietzsche said to his secretary in 1882. Nietzsche's statement captures what lies at the core of my research: I work on the material history of creativity and knowledge production in German literature and culture, ca. 1750 to 1900. In particular, I explore the impact of different forms and media of notation—from doodles to writers’ notebooks, from lists to databases—on creative writing processes and forms of generating knowledge. My other research and teaching interests include media and book history in 18th and 19th-century Germany, print and material culture, textual practices, authorship, intellectual technologies, the history of modern journalism, and the emergence of fake news. Personal Website Contact Petra.McGillen@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 2218 204B Bartlett Hall HB 6084 Education Ph.D. Princeton University, 2012 M.A. Princeton University, 2009 M.A. University of Sussex, England, 2006 B.A. Universität Potsdam and Fachhochschule Potsdam, Germany, 2005 Areas of Expertise Material Media History /German Literature and Culture 1750–1900 /Intellectual Technologies /Print Culture /The History of Knowledge Production /Literary Realism /Book History /The History of Modern Journalism and Fake News Selected Publications “‘I Was There Today’: Fake Eyewitnessing and Journalistic Authority from Fontane to Relotius.” Observing the Everyday: Journalistic Practices of Knowledge Production in the Modern Era. Ed. Hansjakob Ziemer. London; New York: Routledge, in press (peer-reviewed). “Fontane Goes to J-School. Theodor Fontanes Englandjahre und die Entstehung journalistischer Autorität im Pre-Truth-Zeitalter.” Colloquia Germanica 52.1–2 (Fall, 2020). Special Issue on Theodor Fontane. Ed. John Lyon and Brian Tucker, 11–26. The Fontane Workshop: Manufacturing Realism in the Industrial Age of Print. New Directions in German Studies; 26. New York; London: Bloomsbury Academic, July 2019. "The Business of Criticism: Theodor Fontane and Wilhelm Hertz's Media Campaign for Vor dem Sturm." Market Strategies and German Literature in the Long Nineteenth Century. Ed. Vance Byrd and Ervin Malakaj. Interdisciplinary German Studies. Berlin: de Gruyter, 2020, 282–311. “Ein kreativer Apparat. Die Mediengeschichte von Theodor Fontanes Bibliotheksnetz und Lektürepraktiken.” Fontane Blätter 103 (2017): 100–123. [Invited Translation of “A Creative Machine,” see below.] “The Romantic Editor as Modern Media Practitioner: The Poetics of Reading in Ludwig Tieck’s Minnelieder Anthology.” German Life and Letters, Special Issue: Das Erblühen der Blumenlesen. German Anthologies, 1700–1850, eds. Nora Ramtke and Seán M. Williams, German Life and Letters 70.1 (2017): 57–78 (peer-reviewed). DOI 10.1111/glal.12139 “Wit, Bookishness, and the Epistemic Impact of Note-Taking: Lichtenberg’s Sudelbücher as Intellectual Tools,” Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift für Literaturwissenschaft und Geistesgeschichte 90.4 (2016): 501–528 (peer-reviewed). DOI 10.1007/s41245-016-0025-8 "Andauernder Effekt: Medienkonkurrenz und Rhetorik in Heinrich Heines Napoleon-Schriften." Zwischen Gattungsdisziplin und Gesamtkunstwerk. Intermedialität 1815 – 1848. Eds. Stefan Keppler-Tasaki, Wolf G. Schmidt. Berlin: de Gruyter 2015, 203-222 (peer-reviewed). DOI 10.1515/9783110404128.203 "Kompilieren.” Historisches Wörterbuch des Mediengebrauchs. Eds. Heiko Christians, Matthias Bickenbach, and Nikolaus Wegmann. Köln: Böhlau 2014, 352–368. "A Creative Machine: The Media History of Theodor Fontane’s Library Network and Reading Practices." The Germanic Review 87.1 (2012): 72–90 (peer-reviewed). DOI 10.1080/00168890.2012.654440 + View more Speaking Engagements "An den Außengrenzen des Journalismus: Fontanes 'unechte Korrespondenzen' als Boundary-Work." Invited Panel Talk, Fontanes Medien 1819–2019, Universität Potsdam, Germany, June 2019. "Unreliable Reporters of the Pencil: Practices of 'Illustrating' Current Events on the Threshold of Photography." Invited Workshop Talk, Truth and the Logic of the Series, 1850 to 1930, NCCR Iconic Criticism/Eikones, Universität Basel, Switzerland, May 2019. “The False Correspondent in Nineteenth-Century Press Wars: A Forgotten Chapter in the History of Fake News.” Invited Lecture, Landmarks of European Identity, Undergraduate History Seminar, Princeton University, scheduled for November 2018. "Real Fakes: Textual Practices of 'Firsthand' Reporting in the Nineteenth-Century Berlin Press." Invited Workshop Presentation, Modern Journalistic Practices of Knowledge Production – Part 2, Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, Berlin, June 2018. “Fontane's Sound Bites: Remix and the Realist Novel, ca. 1880,” Invited Lecture, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, February 2018. “The Compiler's Moment: Fontane and the Manufacture of Nineteenth-Century Realism.” Invited Talk, The Novel and its Working Methods: A Workshop, Mahindra Humanities Center, co-sponsored by The Novel Theory Seminar, Harvard University, Cambridge, November 2017. Faculty Member of the Sixth Annual Princeton–Weimar Summer School for Media Studies, "Start Making Sense: The Question of Interpretation under The Condition of Technology's Ongoing Provocation," Princeton, New Jersey, Summer 2016. Works In Progress Second Book Project: All the News That's Fit to Twist: Stories of Everyday Fakery in the Press, 1789–1900. "'I was there today': Fake Eyewitnessing and Journalistic Authority from Fontane to Relotius." Observing the Everyday: Journalistic Practices of Knowledge Production in the Modern Era. Ed. Hansjakob Ziemer [typescript, 42 pp. , submitted.] "Unreliable Reporters of the Pencil: Practices of 'Illustrating' Current Events on the Threshold of Photography" [chapter-length article related to second book]. Encyclopedia entry "Faken," Historisches Wörterbuch des Mediengebrauchs, ed. Heiko Christians, Matthias Bickenbach, and Nikolaus Wegmann, vol. 3, Cologne: Böhlau, scheduled for 2020. Co-edited book: Theodor Fontane – Aus England. Große Brandenburger Fontane-Ausgabe. Ed. Heinrich Detering and Gabriele Radecke, section VIII: Das kritische Werk, vol. 1. Berlin: Aufbau, scheduled for 2021. Selected Works & Activities Video interview (pre-recorded) about Theodor Fontane’s creative process for the exhibition Fontane.200/Autor, curated by Heike Gfrereis, screening at the Fontane-Museum in Neuruppin, Germany, March–December 2019. Live radio interview (4:30 minutes) about Theodor Fontane as a journalist and fake news reporter, RBB Kulturradio am Mittag, Radio Berlin-Brandenburg, March 26, 2019. Live radio interview (25 minutes) for the “Dr. Matt Townsend Show” about the history of fake news and prevention strategies for today’s media landscape, BYU Boston Public Radio on May 25, 2017. “Fontane war ein Pionier der Fake News” [Fontane was a pioneer of fake news], interview about my research, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, April 20, 2017. Op-Ed “Techniques of 19th-century fake news reporter teach us why we fall for it today,” The Conversation, April 5, 2017. Selected Scholarships and Awards Aldo and Jeanne Scaglione Prize for the best work in German Studies, Modern Languages Association, December 2020. David Bloom and Leslie Chao Fellowship, 2020. Karen E. Wetterhahn Memorial Award for Distinguished Creative or Scholarly Achievement, 2020. Enhanced Junior Faculty Fellowship [competitive one-year sabbatical], Dartmouth College, 2017–2018. Dean of the Faculty Mentoring Award, Dartmouth College, 2017. Dissertation Completion Fellowship, Andrew W. Mellon Foundation/American Council of Learned Societies, 2011–2012. Courses Material Realities, Material Matters: A Brief History of Paper (COLT 40.05/GERM 42.05) From the Typewriter to Virtual Reality: Modern Media Theory (COLT 18.03/GERM 42.04) Pulp Fiction Meets High Literature: Writers in the 19thC Media Market (GERM 64) Understanding German Media (GERM 10.03) Beginner's German (GERM 2) + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback