Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies Student Information Information on transfer credit, prizes and teaching opportunities. Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Student Information Information on transfer credit, prizes and teaching opportunities. Transfer Credit Any student who would like to transfer credit toward a German concentration from another institution in the United States, or from abroad, should talk to the concentration advisor, Kristina_Mendicino@brown.edu. Prizes First-Year Prizes Senior Prize Delta Phi Alpha First-Year Prizes First-year students may compete for prizes awarded to those with the best secondary preparation in German. Established in 1913, the Caesar Misch Prize is awarded to a male who excelled in secondary preparation for German. Women are eligible for the Asa Clinton Crowell Prize, established in 1928. Please contact the departmental office for details. First-year students are also eligible for two prizes awarded for the best performances in Beginning German. These are awarded at the end of the Spring semester. View Past Award Winners Senior Prize Adolf Conrad Ely, teacher of the class of 1894, established a premium for the senior or seniors, who have done outstanding work in German Studies. View Past Award Winners Delta Phi Alpha Brown is home to the Kappa Upsilon chapter of Delta Phi Alpha, the national honor society for students of German. Every year students who have excelled in German, demonstrated a strong interest in German culture and completed at least two years of college are inducted into this society. View Past Award Winners Teaching Opportunities Teaching Apprentices Every Spring semester the Department of German Studies employs four undergraduate Teaching Apprentices for GM 0110 (Intensive Beginning German). Under the supervision of a faculty member, these students are responsible for teaching small conversation sections three times per week. These Teaching Apprentices will normally have studied abroad in Germany, and they should be able to transmit their enthusiasm for learning German to their students. Contact German_Studies@brown.edu. Tutors Each semester, several students are normally hired to work as tutors for two or three hours per week. The tutors meet with individual students who would like extra help with conversation or any other aspect of language learning. Contact German_Studies@brown.edu. Summer English Teaching in Germany Occasionally the department is able to facilitate one or two opportunities to teach English in a rural setting in one of the new German states for a month in the summer. Home stay makes this program attractive to students of German. Contact Jane_Sokolosky@brown.edu. Additional Information Awards and Fellowships Many of our current and former students have been awarded fellowships and other prizes recognizing their academic excellence. Study Abroad and Internships The Department of German Studies encourages all students to study in Germany for one or two semesters. Concentration The Concentration in German Studies offers students an interdisciplinary approach to German culture in a wide variety of areas. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Information Open details for Student Information Bookmark this Page