Skip to main content Skip to menu Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (Covid-19). The latest University guidance is available at Princeton COVID Resources. | | German Department Princeton Unser schreibzeug arbeitet mit an unseren gedanken. Friedrich Nietzsche Our writing tools are also at work on our thoughts. (Friedrich Nietzsche in a letter to his secretary Peter Gast. February 1882) Move Down Image Congratulations Class of 2022! More Image Undergraduate Students 2022 More Image Graduate Students 2022 More The Princeton German Department explores the language, literatures, intellectual history, arts and media of Germany and German-speaking cultures from the Middle Ages to the present. Our highly diverse and distinguished faculty employ the critical tools of multiple disciplines to investigate and appreciate the wide range of German cultural production, its significance for–and reception of–other cultures, and its continued importance for our current historical moment. Read about the history of the Department Message from the Chair Why major in German? Events View More Events Image Departmental Event Class Day 2022 May 23, 2022 More Image Graduate Student Conference The Automated Condition. Manifestations and Narratives in Art, Literature and Culture May 11, 2022 More Image Lecture After 1989, or a Modernist Poetics of History? April 18, 2022 More Image Departmental Event Sophomore Open House March 15, 2022 More News View More News Image Seniors 2022 Julien Chang More Image Seniors 2022 Autumn Martin More Image Seniors 2022 Noam Miller More Image Student Award Book Prize Ceremony More Image Certificate Program German certificate student Sydney Hughes '22 named Sachs Scholar More Image Faculty Publication The German Department is happy to announce two new books from Professor Emeritus Stanley Corngold More Image Graduate Workshop Critical affects: Suspicion and its others in the ‘Post-critical turn’ Recap More Image German Language Tables German Language Tables - Come, be part of the conversation! More Footer Navigation Programs toggle Undergraduate Summer Graduate Department toggle About People Research What’s On toggle Events Courses News Department of German Princeton University 203 East Pyne Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 (609) 258-4142 german@princeton.edu © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Last updated: 12 May 2022 Department Programs What’s On Main navigation Programs toggle Undergraduate Concentration Certificate Grading Standards Study Abroad Senior Theses Alumni Profiles Summer Summer Work Program Princeton-in-Munich Princeton-Weimar Summer School for Media Studies Graduate Dissertations Information Job Placement PhD Program Department toggle About Introduction History Resources Handbooks Forms Contact People Faculty Core Affiliated Visiting Emeritus Students Undergraduate Graduate Visiting Staff Alumni Undergraduate Graduate Research Fields Bookshelf Dissertations Partnerships What’s On toggle Events Upcoming Past Courses Current Undergraduate Graduate Upcoming Undergraduate Graduate Previous Undergraduate Graduate News Featured Archive Search Calendar Search Filter: All Events News Courses People prev next