Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies About the banner image Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Democracy Will Win At noon on June 2, in the foyer of Baker Berry Library, Profs. Irmela von der Lühe and Veronika Fuechtner will introduce Baker-Berry Library's current exhibit of Thomas Mann's antifascist activities. A reception will follow. German Studies End-of-Year Party Celebrates 2021-2 The department's annual End-of-Year party celebrates the accomplishments of its graduating class, all enrolled students, and student TAs. Shelfie: What the Faculty is Currently Reading Our Distinguished Max Kade Professor Ulrike Draesner recommends a current title from her bookshelf: Die Bergfahrt (Ascent) by Ludwig Hohl. Faculty retreat with Ulrike Draesner Scholars on contemporary literature from New England, the director of the Goethe-Institute in Boston and faculty from the German department discussed her latest novel. Professor Kacandes in Wrocław, Poland Kacandes gave the opening keynote address at a conference at the University of Wrocław, Poland. Spring Term Visiting Professor Ulrike Draesner The Spring '22 Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor is the German novelist, poet, essayist, and translator, Ulrike Draesner. Mittagstisch This spring, the German Club's Mittagstisch will take place every Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:30 PM in '53 Commons on the 2nd floor. In support of the Russian Department's statement on Ukraine The Department of German Studies is in support of the statement by our friends in the Department of Russian concerning recent developments in Ukraine. The German/Engineering FSP is being piloted in Berlin this spring Green City is a joint foreign study program between the Department of German Studies and the Thayer School of Engineering. "In the Wake of the Plague: Eros and Mourning" — a symposium "In the Wake of the Plague: Eros and Mourning," a symposium that took place on April 21-24, 2022 (Click on the illustration for details). Recent Publications view all The Fontane Workshop: Manufacturing Realism in the Industrial Age of Print. Petra S. McGillen New Directions in German Studies; 26. New York; London: Bloomsbury Academic, 2019 On Being Adjacent to Historical Violence Irene Kacandes De Gruyter Verlag, 2022 Sovereignty in Ruins: A Politics of Crisis Klaus Mladek, George Edmondson (eds.) Duke University Press, 2017. Toni Erdmann Gerd Gemünden Camden House, 2021 Study Abroad Join one of our off-campus programs and immerse yourself in the diverse culture of Germany's capital Berlin, one example of our INCLUSIVE APPROACHES to German Study. Learn more about LANGUAGE STUDY ABROAD (LSA/ LSA+) and FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM (FSP), the GERM/ENGINEERING FSP, JEWISH STUDIES/GERM FSP, and more. learn more Our Courses The German Studies Department offers a wide range of LANGUAGE AND TOPICS COURSES in German and English. Look up UPOMING COURSES for your course schedule planning and find out more about your FACULTY INSTRUCTORS. learn more MAJOR AND MINOR DEGREES Learn about the requirements for completing a GERMAN MAJOR OR MINOR DEGREE. Consider WHY STUDY GERMAN? is a rewarding experience for your personal, academic, and professional goals. learn more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback