Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies Admissions Information for Ph.D. and Masters programs including a 5th Year Masters Program. Breadcrumb Home Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Admissions Information for Ph.D. and Masters programs including a 5th Year Masters Program. For detailed requirements and application information, please visit the German Studies Graduate Program in the graduate program finder. Ph.D. Program Applicants should: Submit a writing sample (in German or English) of approximately 20 pages. Foreign students also will need to take the TOEFL exam. The letter of application should suggest research interests as well as possible fields of secondary study. Applicants should present evidence of advanced proficiency in German and a solid background in German literature, culture, and critical thought. The GRE is no longer required for admission. For admission forms please visit the Graduate School's website. Masters Program for Brown Students Students whose primary department for graduate work at Brown is not German Studies may earn an M.A. in German Studies by completing 8 courses in the area of German Studies. These shall include at least 6 courses within the Department of German Studies and a maximum of 2 approved courses in a closely related field. None of these may overlap with coursework completed for the student's home department. 5th Year Masters Program Students who obtain a B.A. in German Studies from Brown may integrate their undergraduate studies with work towards an M.A. as part of the 5th year Masters program. Six additional courses beyond the B.A. are required. Please see the Dean of the College's website for more information. The Department does not accept outside applications for a terminal M.A. degree. Additional Information Requirements Information about coursework, foreign language requirements, the qualifying exam, dissertation and teaching. Resources Information on places across Brown University and International to enhance your German Studies learning. Recent Ph.D Placement See what recent German Studies Ph.D. Graduates are doing. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admissions Open details for Admissions Bookmark this Page