Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Off-Campus Programs Office Share Language Study Abroad Our LSA/LSA+ programs take place in Berlin. The summer term program provides intermediate language instruction and a wide-ranging exposure to German life and culture. The fall term offers students the option of choosing either an LSA+ or, if their level of German qualifies them for more advanced work, an FSP. LSA students at the grave of Frederick the Great in Potsdam, near Berlin. Bellevue Palace, Residence of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Lake Grunewald. The Berlin Marathon. PreviousNext Prerequisites You need to pass German 2 or its equivalent with a grade of B- or better. Students who have already completed German 3 may also take part in the LSA+ and will take German 10.00 abroad instead. Curriculum German 3 (Intermediate German) is taught by Gesine Voeste-Scherer, a long-time instructor at both the Free University and the Goethe Institute in Berlin. She studied at the Free University of Berlin and University of Würzburg, as well as at Princeton and Berkeley. She has also taught at Reed College and the Universities of London and Kent. German 5 (Contemporary German Culture) is conducted by Christine Joppich, an art historian. The course features excursions to a number of Berlin's cultural and historical sites. WCult: W. German 6 (Introduction to German Literature) is taught by the faculty member directing the LSA. It treats literary works connected with Berlin and usually includes theater visits. German 10.00 (Advanced Intermediate German) is, by arrangement, available as an option to students who have already completed German 3. Taught by Gregor Hens. Further studies Many LSA students decide to go on to the Foreign Study Program (FSP). Apply online at Off-Campus Programs. In my three months in Berlin, my fluency level in German skyrocketed. Lauryn King '22 Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback