Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies Graduate The Department of German Studies at Brown offers a Ph.D. program which both provides a coherent perspective on major developments in German literature, culture, and critical thought in the modern period (1517 to the present) and provides students with the opportunity to develop their own specialized interests in German Studies. Sub Navigation In This Section Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Graduate The Department of German Studies at Brown offers a Ph.D. program which both provides a coherent perspective on major developments in German literature, culture, and critical thought in the modern period (1517 to the present) and provides students with the opportunity to develop their own specialized interests in German Studies. The program requires a secondary field of study consisting of a coherent sequence of four courses outside the Department. With guidance from the Director of Graduate Studies, each student plans this sequence in a specialized area of interest. Some examples of possible specialized programs of study are: Media Studies History Jewish Studies Visual Arts Philosophy Music Theater Drawing on the expertise of eminent scholars in these fields, who are teaching at Brown both in and beyond the German Studies Department, the program thus fosters a transdisciplinary approach in the field of German Studies. The information on the pages of this section summarize the requirements and structure of the graduate program, along with details on admission. Graduate Handbook Download the German studies graduate handbook (PDF) Guiding Principles The guiding principles of our curriculum is a conscious exploration of those topics and moments in the history of German culture and critical thought which define its uniqueness, exemplify broader issues in the humanities, or have resonated most strongly in other cultures. Fields which unify these goals - aesthetics, and critical theory - are among our strengths. Outcomes The program is designed to prepare students for a diverse and ever-changing workplace, within academia and outside. To become first-rate scholars and researchers, students are trained to develop their writing skills and to deliver publishable work in their graduate work. To turn into mature and innovative teachers, they are exposed to a rigorous program of theoretical and practical approaches to teaching. To enable them to become esteemed professionals, students will learn to perform research and to process information effectively and efficiently and to communicate highly complex subjects to a variety of audiences. Additional Information Admissions Information for Ph.D. and Masters programs including a 5th Year Masters Program. Requirements Information about coursework, foreign language requirements, the qualifying exam, dissertation and teaching. Resources Information on places across Brown University and International to enhance your German Studies learning. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Open details for Graduate Bookmark this Page