/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses German Language Study Prizes and Fellowships People Department Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Emeritus Faculty Current Graduate Students Awards/Kudos IGCS About Us Department Administration and Contacts New German Critique Signale The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Exploring cross-disciplinary study of language, literature, and culture German Studies We are a community of students, teachers, and scholars devoted to the cross-disciplinary study of language, literature, and culture within a transnational framework. Working in an environment that fosters cooperation and the pleasure of discovery, our programs include courses in German and English on subjects ranging from medieval to contemporary literature and from film and visual culture to philosophy, music, and postcolonial studies. German Studies News Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More 'I’m amazed at how much I developed as a writer' Lauren Bohm is a History and German Studies major. Read More 'I participated in a summer research program with anthropologists from Brazil' Ariana Croese is majoring in Italian & German Studies. Read More Provided Hannah Miller (Ph.D. '17) explores the "States of Fandom" in New Book Congratulations to Dr. Hannah Miller (Ph.D. in German Studies, 2017) on the recent publication of her first book, The Politics of Fandom. Conflicts That Divide Communities (McFarland, 2022). Read More Alumni gift to A&S supports doctoral students in the humanities A $5 million alumni gift will help to support doctoral students in humanities fields within the College of Arts & Sciences. Read More Rural humanities projects explore NYS past and present Five essays that explore how students created publicly-engaged projects are available online. Read More Nexus Scholars Program applications now open The program connects undergraduates in A&S with opportunities to work side by side on research with Cornell faculty from across the College. Read More Apply to Our PhD Program Apply to our PhD program. Accepting Applications Submitted by January 2, 2022 Read More More news See all events German Studies Links of Interest Faculty Profiles Course Listings German Language Study Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Celebrating Our Seniors Click here to learn more about our 2021 graduates in German Studies. Student Spotlights: Extraordinary Journeys Lauren Bohm '22 Juan Cancel '22 Ariana Croese '22 Skyeler McQueen '21 Yuqing (Eva) Cao '20 Joshua Sadinsky '19 Juliane Scholtz '19 183 Goldwin Smith Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of German Studies 607-255-5265/4047 Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top