Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies Past Courses Download pdfs of current and past semesters' courses and view recently offered graduate courses in German Studies and related departments. Breadcrumb Home Courses Sub Navigation In This Section Past Courses Past Courses Download pdfs of current and past semesters' courses and view recently offered graduate courses in German Studies and related departments. PDFs of Current and Past Courses Fall 2022 Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Spring 2015 Fall 2014 Spring 2014 Fall 2013 Spring 2013 Fall 2012 Spring 2012 Fall 2011 Spring 2011 Fall 2010 Recent Graduate Courses In German Studies GRMN2340B - Poetik der AutorInnen (T. Kniesche) This course will examine postwar literary aesthetics as put forth in the so-called "Poetikvorlesungen" which several universities in German-speaking countries have instituted since 1959. These lectures have featured important contemporary authors thinking about their work - from poetic practices and aesthetic theories to biographic considerations and the technicalities of writing literature in today's world. GRMN2460B - German Literature 1968-1989 (T. Kniesche) Discussion of major trends in literature written in German: New Subjectivity, postmodernism, feminist literature, the role of mythology, post-histoire. Authors include Botho Strauss, Elfriede Jelinek, Thomas Bernhard, W.G. Sebald, among others. GRMN2660J - Late Heidegger: Art, Poetry, Technology (G. Richter) This seminar will focus on key statements in some of the late Heidegger's most influential essays and lectures, with a focus on the nexus of art, poetry, and technology as it inflects language, dwelling, and Being. While in his thinking of art and poetry his emphasis is on the work of Hölderlin, in his thinking of technology he regards the enframement of technics as both completing and undoing Western metaphysics. For Heidegger, the essence of technology is not technological at all but instead requires a wholly different kind of questioning. GRMN2660K - Ontology of Life: Reading Heidegger's Being and Time with Derrida (G. Richter and D. Krell) Martin Heidegger's Being and Time (1927) develops a "fundamental ontology" of Dasein, or human existence. Dasein, which in each case dies, is for the time being alive. How does mortal human being relate to other life forms? We will read Heidegger's masterpiece in its entirety with this question in mind, a question sharply honed by Jacques Derrida in his Of Spirit, Aporias, and The Beast and the Sovereign, that is, from the 1980s until his death in 2004. GRMN2660A - On the Sublime (Z. Sng) Survey of major theories of the sublime from antiquity to modern times, with emphasis on German, British, and French texts from the 18th to 20th centuries. Authors include Longinus, Immanuel Kant, Edmund Burke, Jean-Francois Lyotard, and Neil Hertz. GRMN 2660L - Hölderlin, in Theory (Z. Sng) We will spend the semester reading the enigmatic writings of Friedrich Hoelderlin, with particular focus on the pivotal role that he has come to play in major philological and philosophical projects of our time. Critical readings include texts by Heidegger, Adorno, Benjamin, de Man, and Lacoue-Labarthe. In Related Departments HIST 2980W - First Person History in Times of Crisis: Witnessing, Memory, Fiction (O. Bartov) This seminar examines the relationship between History as a narrative of events and history as individual experience. Postulating that historical events as related by historians were experienced in numerous different ways by their protagonists, the seminar focuses on the complementary and contradictory aspects of this often fraught relationship at times of crisis, especially in war and genocide. While much time will be spent on World War II and the Holocaust, the seminar will engage with other modern wars and genocides across the world. Materials will include eyewitness reports, postwar testimonies and trial records, memoirs and relevant works of fiction. COLT 2821B - Memory/Commemoration/Testimony (S. Bernstein) An investigation of the mnemonic functions of poetry from the elegy to historical witnessing in the Romantic and post-romantic period. We will study the creative and performative function of memory as well as processes of repetition, recollection, trauma and canon-formation. Theoretical and poetic texts will be studied together. Authors will include: Rousseau, Wordsworth, Hölderlin, Lamartine, Baudelaire, Dickinson, H.D., Rilke, Celan, Reznikoff; Heidegger, Freud, Arendt, Adorno, Derrida, de Man, Ronell. HMAN 2970H - Realism, Idealism, and Modernity I: From Early Modernity through German Idealism (P. Guyer) Debates between realism and idealism are central to modernity. The opposition between them might seem straightforward, realism being the philosophy of the scientific worldview, idealism the philosophy of more traditional religion and morality. But sometimes idealism has been the philosophical basis for modern science and moral autonomy, and realism the basis for more traditional worldviews. The philosophical debate between realism and idealism is thus part of the larger struggle over science, religion, morality and politics in modern culture. This course will begin a two-semester study of this complex dialectic from the seventeenth to the twentieth centuries. COLT2820S - Poetry after Kant (K. McLaughlin) Begins with the intensive study of a selection of writings by Kant focused especially on force and conflict in politics and aesthetics. This study, along with relevant readings from more recent work, will provide the basis for an approach to this topic in nineteenth-century poetry. Readings of Kant, Walter Benjamin, Jacques Derrida, and Giorgio Agamben, leading to several "case studies" of 19th--century poetry, including works by Hölderlin, Baudelaire, and Matthew Arnold. Courses The Department of German Studies offers a set of courses that covers the range from beginning language instruction to graduate seminars. Explore Undergraduate and Graduate course listing for Spring 2022. Graduate The Department of German Studies at Brown offers a Ph.D. program which both provides a coherent perspective on major developments in German literature, culture, and critical thought in the modern period (1517 to the present) and provides students with the opportunity to develop their own specialized interests in German Studies. Requirements Information about coursework, foreign language requirements, the qualifying exam, dissertation and teaching. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Past Courses Open details for Past Courses Bookmark this Page