Skip to main content Washington University of Washington College of Arts & Sciences Quick Links Make a Gift Directories Maps MyUW Log in Search Search form Search Search Department of German Studies Menu People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Max Kade Professor Visiting Scholars Alumni Alumni News Submit an Update Programs & Courses Undergraduate B.A. in German Minors Minor in German Studies Minor in German Linguistics Honors Scholarships Careers Resources & Opportunities Get Involved Research Baden-Würtemberg Program Learning Goals Graduate Application Instructions International Applicants U.S. Applicants Master of Arts Doctor of Philosophy Fellowships and Tuition Teaching Assistantships Exchanges Internships Academic Placement Language Program Why learn German? Language Courses Placement Test Goethe Zertifikat Tests Credit Transfer FAQ Summer Program Courses Current and Upcoming Featured Courses Tentative Course Schedules Study Abroad Spring in Vienna Summer in Berlin Additional Programs Research Publications Projects Dissertations Undergraduate Fields of Interest News & Events Recent News Student Experiences Newsletter Calendar Resources Advising Goethe Zertifikat Tests Scholarships Internships Careers Organizations and Links Deutsch Klub On Campus & Beyond Lowenfeld Collection Neurath Donation Rey Library About Overview Vision Statement Diversity Stay Connected Support Us Contact Us Make a Gift Directories Maps MyUW In the Heart of Europe, a World of Discovery Study abroad programs in Berlin, Heidelberg, and Vienna offer students the experience of a lifetime. Learn more Literature, Philosophy, Environmental Humanities Share in the language and ideas of some of history's greatest thinkers as you prepare for boundless opportunities in education, the arts, and beyond. View Courses Why German Studies? With a multitude of topics and real-world applications ranging from research and tech to education and cinema, German Studies go beyond the mastery of a new tongue. Explore Programs An Exceptional Student Experience A close-knit learning community in a nationally recognized program can pave the way to an exciting future. Student Stories The Department of Germanics is now the Department of German Studies. Find out More. Faculty Directory Degree Programs Language Program Alumni & Friends Welcome to the Department of German Studies Our department concentrates on the artistic and intellectual traditions of German-speaking countries and offers training in critical reading, analytical writing, and the implications of language, literature, and other media as cultural phenomena. As one of the highest ranked programs in the country, we remain at the forefront of innovating language teaching. We offer undergraduate and advanced degrees for students at the University of Washington, as well as outreach events for the surrounding community. Upcoming Courses Our Courses All Courses Featured Courses Tentative Course Schedules Featured Course GERMAN 452 A: History Of The German Language Spring 2022 From Mark Twain to Nazis – a lot of people had strong feelings about the German language. Come and explore why German shares many linguistic features with English, what made... Learn more News & Events New Faculty Publication by Brigitte Prutti: Franz Grillparzer, Neue Lektüren und Perspektiven May 10, 2022 New Faculty Publication by Richard Block: Mourning Becomes Electric: The Disappearing Act of AIDS. May 9, 2022 News from our Alums: Vanessa Hester (PhD 2021) May 9, 2022 News from our Graduate Students: Matthew Childs May 9, 2022 View all news Support German Studies Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram More ways to connect Department of German Studies University of Washington Denny Hall 360 Box 353130 Seattle, WA 98195-3130 Phone: (206) 543-4580 Fax: (206) 685-9063 uwgerman@uw.edu Privacy Terms Site Map Alumni Update Contact Us © 2022 University of Washington. All rights reserved.