Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Klaus Mladek Academic Appointments Associate Professor of German Studies and Comparative Literature Klaus Mladek is Associate Professor of German Studies and Comparative Literature at Dartmouth College. His research focuses on 18th through 20th-century political theory, literature and law, philosophy and psychoanalysis. He is the editor of Police Forces: A Cultural History of an Institution (2007) and the author of Stages of Justice: Encounters of Politics, Theater and Philosophy from Socrates to Arendt (forthcoming with Northwestern University Press). His co-edited collection Sovereignty in Ruins: A Politics of Crisis (together with George Edmondson) appeared with Duke University Press in spring 2017. Recent articles and book chapters are on populism, the politics of crisis, torture and shame, on melancholic politics, on the American jury system and on the idea of justice in Walter Benjamin. With the help of the American Council of Learned Societies, he is currently completing a co-authored study A Politics of Melancholia (with George Edmondson). Book projects in progress are Walter Benjamin's Demons: Revolution and the Idea of Justice as well as Criminal Subjects: Politics vs. Police in Literature and Philosophy after Kant. He has received research grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the ACLS, the Humboldt Foundation, the Center for German and European Studies and the University of California Psychoanalytic Consortium. Contact Klaus.Mladek@Dartmouth.edu 646-2711 210 Dartmouth Hall, German Studies and Comparative Literature HB 6084 Education Magister Artium, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt/Main M.A. University of California Ph.D. University of California Areas of Expertise Political Theory, Law and Police Studies /18th through 20th-century German Literature /Ancient and Contemporary Philosophy /Literary Theory, Psychoanalysis Selected Publications Whatever Happened to Justice for All? (Los Angeles Review of Books, 1/11/18) Why justice is more important than the rule of law (The Conversation, 12/19/17) Reclaiming the Populist Moment (Alternet, 10/9/17) Merkel Won, So Why Aren't Germans Celebrating? (Cognoscenti, 9/27/17) Gorsuch and the Crisis of Poetic Justice (The Huffington Post, 5/5/17) “Twelve Theses on Populism,” Gespenster des Wissens, eds. Ute Holl, Claus Pias & Burkhardt Wolf (Zurich: Diaphanes, 2017), 261-270. “Natural History: Towards a Politics of Crisis” (with G. Edmondson), in Sovereignty in Ruins: A Politics of Crisis, eds. George Edmondson & Klaus Mladek (Durham and London: Duke University Press, 2017), 30-68. “Introduction: Sovereignty Crises” (with G. Edmondson), in Sovereignty in Ruins: A Politics of Crisis, eds. George Edmondson & Klaus Mladek (Durham and London: Duke University Press, 2017), 9-27. “Folter und Scham: Anmerkungen zu Guntánamo und Abu Ghraib,” Wahrheit und Gewalt: Der Diskurs der Folter in Europa und den USA, ed. Thomas Weitin (Bielefeld: Transcript Verlag, 2010), 243-266. “A Politics of Melancholia” (with George Edmondson), A Leftist Ontology, ed. Carsten Strathausen (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2009), 208-233. Introduction to Police Forces: A Cultural History of an Institution, ed. Klaus Mladek (New York: Palgrave, 2007), 1-9. “Exception Rules: Contemporary Political Theory and the Police,” Police Forces: A Cultural History of an Institution, ed. Klaus Mladek (New York: Palgrave, 2007), 221-265. "Dikastomania : Die Amerikanische Entscheidung," in Urteilen und Entscheiden, Cornelia Vismann and Thomas Weitin (eds.), (2006), 186-203 “Der Widerstand der Dinge und die Macht der Unvernunft. Hegels ‘Spekulativer Positivismus,’” in Umwege des Lesens: Aus dem Labor Philologischer Neugierde, C Hoffmann and C Welsh (eds.), (2006) 141-159. + View more Works In Progress A Politics of Melancholia (co-authored with George Edmondson) Walter Benjamin’s Demons: Revolution and the Idea of Justice Criminal Subjects: Politics vs. Police in Literature and Philosophy after Kant Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback