Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Off-Campus Programs Office Share Foreign Study Program: Germany on the World Stage In the fall, intermediate and advanced students can go on to the Foreign Study Program, which offers an intense immersion in Berlin life and culture. The program includes visits to concerts, operas, plays, and museums, and a trip to Vienna. As with the LSA, you would live with a local family and take three Dartmouth courses taught exclusively in German. As of Fall 2020, the department is offering a combined LSA+/FSP program entitled Germany on the World Stage. Students will enroll either at the intermediate or the advanced level. Students who have taken German 3 on campus will take German 10 in Berlin. Students who have taken German 10 on campus will take German 29 in Berlin. German 29 will only enroll FSP students. German 30 (German History) and German 31 (The Berlin Theater and Performance Scene) will be taken by all students at a differentiated level of instruction according to their proficiency. LSA+ students visit Şehitlik Mosque in Berlin. (Photo credit: Adrian Lehne) FSP students visit Dresden. FSP students, Faust, and Mephistopheles outside Auerbach’s Keller in Leipzig. Villa and garden of artist Max Liebermann. Frieze on equestrian statue of Frederick the Great, Unter den Linden. PreviousNext Prerequisites For the FSP option, you need to pass two courses beyond German 5 (but not including German 7 or 13) with an average grade of B or better. If you participated in the LSA the preceding summer, you can petition the director to waive one of those courses. For the LSA+ option, you need to pass German 3 with an average grade of B or better. Curriculum German 10: Advanced Intermediate German is available as an LSA+ option and only taken by students who have completed German 3 on campus but not yet taken a 10 level class. Taught by Gregor Hens. German 29: Contemporary Germany and Berlin is only taken by FSP students. Taught by Veronika Springmann. Introduction to contemporary German culture, identity and everyday life through close analysis of literary, filmic, architectural, political and other texts. Assignments should develop skills in analyzing construction of identity and expressing sophisticated ideas in written and spoken German. Carries major or minor credit. German 30: Studies in German History is jointly taken by LSA+ and FSP students at differentiated levels of instruction. Taught by Keith R. Allen. More than any other German city, Berlin encapsulates Germany's complex past. From the Brandenburg Gate to the Olympic Stadium and from the Wannsee to the Alexanderplatz, the capital evokes memories of Wilhelminian pomp, Nazi rule, World War II, the Cold War, and Re-Unification. This course addresses significant aspects of postwar German history and cultural memory. In-depth studies of important developments will be complemented by visits to museums, historical sites and archives. Carries major or minor credit. German 31: Studies in German Theater Studies in German History is jointly taken by LSA+ and FSP students at differentiated levels of instruction. Taught by the Dartmouth faculty member in residence. Berlin is one of the culturally most vibrant cities in Europe. There are over a hundred theaters and several opera houses with performances that range from classical drama to vaudeville and from musicals to serious opera. For this FSP literature course, students will read, attend, discuss, and write about the plays they see live in various stage productions. The repertory varies from year to year. The primary focus is on theater, but the course may also include prose texts and films. Carries major or minor credit. Apply online at Off-Campus Programs. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback