Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth German Studies Department of German Studies Contact Us Facebook German.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany German Literature Archive Share German Literature Archive Two one-term internships are available annually to Dartmouth students at the German Literature Archive (Deutsches Literaturarchiv DLA) in Marbach, near Stuttgart. About the program The DLA is one of Europe’s leading cultural and literary institutions. Its campus, located at the edge of the beautiful Black Forest region, includes not only an archive with the manuscripts of world-famous authors such as Friedrich Schiller and Franz Kafka, but also two prestigious museums, an extensive research library, a very active research division, and a digital humanities division. Candidates are selected jointly by the Department of German Studies and the DLA. They normally have a background in German Studies, Comparative Literature, Sociology, History, or Art History. Successful completion of German 3 and at least one intermediate German course or comparable language proficiency is required. The DLA covers the cost of housing at the “Collegienhaus,” an apartment complex for visiting scholars. Internships are offered during all terms and typically last 10 weeks, but shorter or longer stays are possible, depending on availability and scheduling. Interns receive an introduction to state-of-the-arts archival working methods from DLA scholars. Depending on the interns’ language proficiency, they will assist in curatorial work, participate in the activities of the research division, or work for the digital humanities division. Student Testimonials Dartmouth DLA interns typically work on a range of different projects. For example, Veronica Williamson ('17) reported from Marbach about her internship in 2014 summer: "Currently, I'm doing research on different approaches and responses that occurred in various cities during the 1968 student protests. I'm looking at it from the perspective of urban planning, political movements, and literary and cultural revolutions. In my free time, I am exploring the Denktagebücher of Hannah Arendt that the DLA has in its manuscript collections." Ji Hyun Ahn (an international exchange student) reported about her 2014 internship: "I've prepared the contents of an exhibition and a workshop that will be held in September [and] assembled biographical backgrounds for a research project entitled "Image Politics – Authors' Portraits and Iconic Authorization" [...]. I've been truly inspired by working with scholars on research projects while reading literary works and original manuscripts at the archive. [...] The internship has also helped me to develop a better command of the language and given me a real German work experience." Application Information Applications will be accepted year-round, but it is advisable to submit the application four to six months prior to the desired start date. Required documents (in German or English) include a brief personal statement, two letters of recommendation from Dartmouth faculty, and a current CV. Final selection by interview. Please submit documents electronically to Professor Petra McGillen. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of German Studies Undergraduate Overview Why Study German? Placement Test Student Prizes and Awards Courses Courses by Term Majors and Minors Major A Major B Modified Major Minor Culminating Experience Honors Program Student Life Max Kade German Center Activities Resources German Beats Podcasts Foreign Study Language Study Abroad (LSA/LSA+) Overview Foreign Study Program (FSP) German/Engineering FSP JWST/GERM Foreign Study Program One-Year Exchange Undergraduate Engineering Exchange Opportunities Overview Pre-Graduation Opportunities Drill Instructors Max Planck Internships German Parliament Internships German Literature Archive Other Undergraduate Opportunities Post-Graduation Possibilities Working in Germany Writing a German Resume The German Workplace Inclusivity News & Events People Faculty & Staff Alumni Alumni News Tell Us Your Story Max Kade Visiting Professorship Harris Visiting Professorship Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback