Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures Home People Faculty Affiliated Visiting Research Scholars & Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Program Majoring in German Courses Language Program Cultural Program and Tutorials Study Abroad Graduate Program PhD Program in German Studies/German Literature Combined PhD Program in German Studies/Film and Media Studies Graduate Students Recent Graduates Graduate Study Abroad & Exchanges Application and financial support Graduate Courses German Translation / Reading Exam News Calendar Courses Courses Spring 2021 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Fall 2019 Courses Spring 2020 Welcome The Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures at Yale has long been considered one of the strongest departments of German in the United States. While emphasizing the practice and theory of reading and interpretation with a rigorous study of canonical, and also non-canonical, works of German literature, the department also encompasses and encourages within its own framework the intensive study of interdisciplinary fields such as critical theory and philosophy, comparative approaches to literature, the histories of science and law, social and political thought. Film and media studies are a focus in the German/Film program as well as within the department. In our close-knit intellectual community the faculty works with each of its students to develop a course of study that combines those elements of German thought and culture that most reflect the individual’s interests. Our goal is to allow as much freedom as possible while assuring the completion of a degree that will have thoroughly prepared the student for a strong entrance into the profession. Over the years our record in placing our graduates has been superb. Department Community The Department is committed to providing a safe, respectful, and supportive environment for all of its students, faculty, and staff. In addition to being necessary for health and welfare, nothing is more important to the quality of the community we share and value. The Department takes concerns about sexual misconduct and other forms of discrimination very seriously, and the University maintains a number of resources to address questions concerning them: Sexual Misconduct Response at Yale Office of the Provost-Title IX Office for Equal Opportunity Programs Black Lives Matter The Yale German Department stands in solidarity with Black Lives Matter and in support of national and international protests against systemic anti-black racism, which for centuries has posed a constant threat to the lives and livelihoods of African Americans. Post-1945 German Studies in the United States is defined by its opposition to fascism, racism, oppression and discrimination in all of its forms – but we still have a long way to go. The killings of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd impress upon us the urgency to reaffirm our commitments at every level. Stay up-to-date on German Department events Sign up for Wie Geht’s? , the Yale German Department Mailing List. News In Memoriam: Professor Emeritus Rainer Nägele (1943-2022) Rainer Nägele, Alfred C. and Martha Mohr Professor of Germanic Languages... Register to qualify for the German Advanced Language Certificate The Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures offers an Advanced... Paul North to Join Jonathan Edwards as the Next Head of College Message sent from Peter Salovey on Friday, 22 April: Dear Members of... German Translation Exam Spring 2022: April 28, 2pm - sign up by April 25 Translation/Reading Exam (for graduate students who have to fulfill a... German Language Preference Selection, Fall 2022 Pre-registration for German language courses will be open from 8:00am... Info Session on the Baden-Württemberg Summer Programs, Friday, February 18, 4pm Please join Study Abroad Advisor Marion Gehlker on Friday, February 18 at... German Summer Study 2022 Info Session, February 10, 4-5pm Please join Study Abroad Advisor Marion Gehlker on Thursday, February 10... More news... Note from the Chair Welcome to the Department of German at Yale, a vibrant place to study German thought and literature, language and culture in the context of European and Western developments. Besides all the information on our program—on courses and people, structure and requirements—I hope that these sites convey an impression of the areas we are committed to in reading, thinking, and debate in our community of students. Kirk Wetters Professor, Germanic Language and Literatures kirk.wetters@yale.edu Contact Us Sign up for Wie Geht’s?, the Yale German Department Mailing List Mailing Address* *For inquiries and urgent matters, please write to us at: german@yale.edu. Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures Yale University P.O. Box 208251 New Haven, CT 06520-8251 USA Rüdiger Campe, Director of Graduate Studies Paul North, Director of Undergraduate Studies Theresa Schenker, Language Program Director Becca Stevens, Registrar Suzanne Al-Labban, Chair’s Assistant Tracey Finer, Operations Manager Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved