Skip to Main Content Brown University German Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact Search German Studies German Studies at Brown The Department of German Studies is a vibrant intellectual community with strong ties to the full range of critical inquiry that characterizes the humanities at Brown. German Studies at Brown The Department of German Studies is a vibrant intellectual community with strong ties to the full range of critical inquiry that characterizes the humanities at Brown. The Department focuses its research and teaching on German-language literature, culture, and critical thought (from German Idealism and Romanticism to the Frankfurt School and beyond), with a comparative and transdisciplinary orientation. It offers both the B.A. and the Ph.D. in German Studies, affording its students – from beginning language learner to advanced doctoral researcher – the opportunity to combine their interests in the literary, cultural, and intellectual production of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland with a wide variety of complementary pursuits, including philosophy, aesthetics, history, music, cultural theory, psychoanalysis, and film, among others. The Department encourages this approach through its flexible yet rigorous curriculum; intense research and teaching collaboration with faculty in related Brown departments and partner institutions in Europe; rich and varied course offerings in both German and English; as well as attractive study abroad opportunities in Berlin and Tübingen. Undergraduate The Department of German Studies at Brown University opens the doors to students who are interested in the language, literature, and culture of the German speaking areas of Central Europe. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Graduate The Department of German Studies at Brown offers a Ph.D. program which both provides a coherent perspective on major developments in German literature, culture, and critical thought in the modern period (1517 to the present) and provides students with the opportunity to develop their own specialized interests in German Studies. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Courses The Department of German Studies offers a set of courses that covers the range from beginning language instruction to graduate seminars. Explore Undergraduate and Graduate course listing for Spring 2022. Visit Page Open details for Courses Upcoming Events Recent News View All News News from German Studies Brehan Brady '23 awarded a 2022 Royce Fellowship April 18, 2022 Congratulations, Brehan! Read Article Open details for Brehan Brady &#039;23 awarded a 2022 Royce Fellowship News from German Studies Kevin McLaughlin on BBC's "In Our Time," discussing Walter Benjamin February 16, 2022 Listen to Kevin McLaughlin and other guests on Melvyn Bragg's show "In Our Time" on BBC, discussing the work of Walter Benjamin (1892-1940). Read Article Open details for Kevin McLaughlin on BBC&#039;s &quot;In Our Time,&quot; discussing Walter Benjamin News from German Studies Faculty Publication from Thomas Schestag November 12, 2021 Congratulations to Thomas Schestag on the publication of his new book, "erlaubt, entlaubt"! Read Article Open details for Faculty Publication from Thomas Schestag Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Undergraduate Coursework Concentration Student Information Awards and Fellowships Study Abroad and Internships Graduate Admissions Requirements Resources Graduate Students Recent Ph.D Placement Courses Past Courses People News Events Past Events Contact This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search German Studies at Brown Open details for German Studies at Brown Bookmark this Page