Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GHAP Archive Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Timeline Library In The News People Memorial About the Archive GHAP Archive Home GHAP Archive The history of Columbia University's Gay Health Advocacy Project, the first organization in the United States to provide HIV testing, counseling, and education to students. Share Your Story Are you a GHAP alumnus? From untreatable to undetectable and beyond. Caring for Columbia University students for more than 30 years In October of 1985, Laura Pinsky and Paul Harding-Douglas founded the Columbia Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP), in response to the unfolding AIDS crisis, with the mission of providing HIV information, counseling, and testing to the Columbia community. GHAP continues to operate today as part of Columbia Health with Daniel Chiarilli as its director. If you are interested in talking to an advocate, getting an HIV test, learning about PrEP, or accessing any of the additional sexual health services that GHAP now provides, like birth control, our office is located in John Jay Hall at 539 W. 114th Street on the third floor. Learn more about our new services and find our current walk-in hours here. Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: From panic to PrEP, GHAP has been there. Slide 2: With compassion, not condemnation, GHAP has been there. Slide 3: From untreatable to undetectable, GHAP has been there. Previous Next Welcome to the GHAP Archive A message from GHAP's current director, Daniel Chiarilli: Explore The Archive Timeline From Panic to PrEP, learn about the history of GHAP as it intertwines with the HIV epidemic. Library Information about the education GHAP provided to the Columbia community, through small sessions and large conferences. In The News Coverage of GHAP and HIV/AIDS by Columbia's student press. People GHAP current and former members share their perspectives and remembrances on their time with the project. Memorial An incomplete list of Columbia students, faculty, administrators, and alumni who have died from complications of HIV/AIDS. Contact Us graduation-cap icon Are you a GHAP Alumnus? Did you work with GHAP while at Columbia, or help support GHAP's mission in some way? Let us know, we'd love to include you on our People page. bullhorn icon Have a question or story to tell? Have a story to tell about how GHAP impacted your life? Or just a question? Contact us and we'll help you in any way we can. Columbia UniversityJohn Jay Hall · New York, NY 10027 Phone +1 212 854 6655 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close