Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Global Health and Health Policy Secondary Field Extra thesis chapter FAQs Contact Search HOME Academics Requirements Courses Advising GHHP 91 Extra thesis chapter FAQs Conference Funding Experiential Learning HGHI Summer Research and Internships Program Cordeiro Summer Research Fellowship Joey Hanzich Memorial Fellowship Getting Involved News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar About GHHP Committee Faculty Staff Contact Congratulations to the 2021 GHHP Graduates! Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Site Visit GHHP students attended a class, met with admissions, and spoke with graduate students at HSPH Global Health Cookie Decorating Study Break Students took a break from studying to decorate homemade cookies at the GHHP Office! Fall Reflections Workshop HGHI Summer Undergraduate Fellows reflect on their international research and internship experiences GHHP 50 Dinner Student and faculty dinner at the Harvard Global Health Institute World Health Assembly HGHI Summer Fellows Malia Ellington, JingJing Zhu, and Danielle Etzel at the 2018 World Health Assembly GHHP 50 Poster Presentation GHHP course listings include more than 120 classes from across the University HGHI Fellows in DC Summer Fellows in DC enjoy dinner with Dr. David Cutler, Christy Colburn, and their supporters. Summer Undergraduate Research in Global Health (SURGH) Fellows HGHI's 2018 SURGH Fellows at the final seminar of the summer with Dr. Ashish Jha and SURGH Program Coordinators SURGH Poster Presentation Lauren Elson (left) presents her poster to Mia Bladin (right) Natalie Yang, HGHI Intern at the InterAmerican Center for Global Health in Costa Rica Natalie volunteering with Hands For Health collecting data on oral health perceptions and playing with children in the community About GHHP The Secondary Field in Global Health and Health Policy is centered on the interdisciplinary exploration of health care, health policy, and health science. Through a curriculum that encourages experiential learning, the program enables students to explore a wide range of topics ranging from transnational health problems and social determinants to a concentrated focus on social responses, such as health systems and health policies. Upon completion of the secondary field, GHHP students have learned to actively engage with complex themes from a variety of perspectives, conduct health-related research, and think critically about the full spectrum of health issues, both domestic and global.... Read more about Academic Advising Appointments GHHP offers weekly advising appointments. Please click here to sign up for a time slot, and be sure to include your FIRST and LAST name. If you are unavailable for any of the listed slots, please email Debbie Whitney directly (deborah_whitney@harvard.edu) and suggest some alternate dates/times; note that she can meet until 6pm on most days. Summer Opportunities Advising If you're interested in discussing summer funding, research, or internships, Emily has virtual office hours for Harvard undergraduates on Wednesdays from 2:30-5pm EST. You can sign up for a 30-minute time slot here. Note: If you have questions regarding the GHHP Secondary Field, please sign up for an advising appointment with Debbie. News Global Health In Action WinterSession Program December 17, 2021 The Harvard Global Health Institute (HGHI) and the HGHI Student Advisory Committee are pleased to be offering programming during this year’s wintersession from January 19th-21st! Events include an in-person global health simulation, virtual site visits, and opportunities for engagement with global health orgs. Priority will be given to first and second year students, and space will be limited. You can register for the Global Health In Action Wintersession Program here by January 5th. Global Health Student Ambassador Leadership Opportunity December 17, 2021 Apply for HGHI’s Global Health Ambassadors Program and become a member of HGHI’s Student Advisory Committee (SAC) in 2022! This is a year-long volunteer position open to students of all concentrations and global health backgrounds. If you would like more information on the roles and responsibilities of ambassadors, they are outlined in the application form here. Please email hghi.studentadvisory@gmail.com with any questions. Applications due by Friday, January 7th at midnight. Funded Summer Internships & Research Opportunities December 16, 2021 The Harvard Global Health Institute (HGHI) offers 50+ fully-funded summer internships and research placements in public and global health. Check out HGHI’s NEW Summer Research and Internship Programs website for internship descriptions, application instructions, and more info about the program. You must be a returning Harvard undergrad to apply, and the deadline is Sunday, February 6th at 11:59pm. ... Read more about Funded Summer Internships & Research Opportunities HGHI Summer Research & Internship Program Info Session 12/1 4-5pm over zoom November 23, 2021 Read more about HGHI Summer Research & Internship Program Info Session 12/1 4-5pm over zoom More news Global Health and Health Policy 14 Story Street, 4th floor Cambridge MA, 02138 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement