Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Activities Fraternity and Sorority Life Naval ROTC Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House VPUL Events Calendar Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBTC Center Makuu The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women Center Student Supports Career Services First Generation Low Income Program Penn Violence Prevention Student Affairs Leadership Team Student Intervention Services Weingarten Learning Resource Center Student Disabilities Services Office of Learning Resources Tutoring Center About Leadership Team Give to University Life Strategic Priorities VPUL Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle VPUL Technology Services Resources Services Meeting Space Student Groups Alumni Connections Experiential Courses PACE (Programs for Cross Cultural Awareness) iBelieve Teaching Performing Arts for Cross-Cultural Experiential Learning Design (ELD) Programs The First-Generation, Low-Income (FGLI) Program Native American Initiatives Alliance for Understanding Intercultural Leadership Program Give to GIC About Our Mission Contact Us Our Team FAQs Our History Home About About Our Mission The mission of the Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center (GIC) is to serve as Penn’s resource for enhancing student’s intercultural knowledge, competency, and leadership. We do this by offering experiential courses for credit, signature intercultural programs, and other services related to diversity and intercultural education. GIC Commitments The GIC is intentionally committed to YOU! We are committed to developing your sense of self-advocacy, self-awareness, and self-love. We are committed to challenging you and others to reflect on our shared humanity. We are committed to creating a space where you feel nurtured and you can nurture others. We are committed to empowering you to build intercultural leadership skills for an interconnected and global world. Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center 3708 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104—6188 Phone: (215) 898-3358 Fax: (215) 573-2597 Email: gic@dolphin.upenn.edu Our Hours: Monday, Wednesday, and Friday | 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday | 10:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Facebook Instagram Envelope Mobile-alt Our Team Valerie De Cruz she/her/hers Director Envelope Video Video Valerie provides leadership and oversight for the center’s programs and services. Over 25 years, she has built trusting relationships across campus. Valerie has worked alongside students and campus partners to design enriching intercultural initiatives that have created a sense of belonging for diverse communities at Penn. As a result, the center is known as a space for supportive collaboration and innovation. Valerie also loves using her background in psychology and counseling to coach and mentor students and colleagues. In her free time, Valerie enjoys traveling, recommending good eats in Philadelphia, and reading inspiring fiction and poetry. Kia Lor she/her/hers Associate Director Envelope Video Video Kia was a First-Generation Lower-Income (FGLI) college student who was born in a refugee camp in Thailand and raised in snowy St. Paul, Minnesota. Kia can tell you all about how to immerse yourself in intercultural courses for credit, the Intercultural Leadership Program, the United Minorities Council, and the Civil Rights History Spring Break. She is also skilled in social media marketing. Kia is passionate about Hmong women’s narratives and digital storytelling, and she uses her training in intercultural communication to help students develop their voices. Outside of the GIC, you may find Kia taking pictures or running along the Schuylkill trail. Toyce Holmes she/her/hers FGLI Program Coordinator Envelope Video Video Toyce is Muscogee Creek and an enrolled member of the Kiowa Tribe of Oklahoma. Toyce enjoys using her background in social work and counseling to create spaces and opportunities for FGLI students, such as the FGLI Cafe and Penn FLASH events with alumni. She also serves as staff advisor to Natives at Penn where she supports Native and Indigenous students in expanding cultural awareness and experiences. When she’s not at work, Toyce enjoys exploring the Northeast, expanding her Hello Kitty collection, supporting Native artists and watching sci-fi movies/TV shows. Patricia Soria she/her/hers Administrative Assistant Envelope Video Video Patricia serves in an administrative role and as the building manager, overseeing the facility, executing financial transactions, and providing critical support for center courses, educational programs, student organizations, workshops, and events. She uses her experience as a mother of two to help parents and students navigate their college experience. She loves to connect with parents, students and alumni to create the feeling of a home away from home at the GIC. She brings knowledge and skills sets from her work in local non-profit settings to event planning and community building at Penn. In her free time she loves spending time with her family, cooking and gardening. Lucy Lu, Intercultural Graduate Assistant she/her/hers Lucy (Chengxi) Lu (she/her), Intercultural Graduate Assistant, is a graduate student pursuing her Master of Intercultural Communication at the Graduate School of Education. Lucy is originally from Chongqing, China. When she was growing up, she moved a lot and gained the opportunities to study, work and live in Canada, Japan, and the United States. Lucy is passionate about sharing her intercultural experience to strengthen multicultural individuals’ identity integration and nurture the cultural humility of students from diverse backgrounds. She believes that the common language is not the key for intercultural communication, but the mutual understanding and respect for each other’s culture. During her spare time, Lucy enjoys traveling, cooking, visiting museums, and watching cute and funny cat videos. Sophie Tannenbaum, Graduate Assistant she/her/hers Sophie is a graduate student pursuing her Master of Social Work at the School of Social Policy and Practice. Her Jewish community has given her a strong sense of “tikkun olam” which directly translates to “world repair” or social action and the pursuit of social justice. Sophie is hoping to use her education to learn how to create systemic change and to advocate for groups who need help having their voices heard. She is a strong believer in experiential learning and loves to travel all over the world to learn about different cultures, conflicts, and health systems. When she isn’t traveling, Sophie enjoys reading, canoeing, bullet journaling, and drinking tea. Nyair Locklear, Undergraduate Assistant she/her/hers Nyair is a Junior in the College studying Health & Societies, concentrating in Health Policy and Law. She is an enrolled member of the Lumbee Tribe of NC, “People of the Dark Water,” and originally from Raeford, North Carolina. She is a FGLI student and works mostly with Natives at Penn as the Communications Chair and with FGLI orgs here at the GIC. In the future, she hopes to travel and work with sovereign tribal nations on their health and social policy efforts. Outside work and school, Nyair enjoys talking about Wellness, cooking/ baking, reading, and watching copious amounts of reality TV. Brandy Pineda, FLASH Program Development Coordinator she/her/hers Brandy oversees retention, analytics, communication, and programming for the Penn FLASH platform, a curated network of FGLI, FGLI- adjacent, and FGLI ally identifying alumni and students. Studying linguistics in the College of Arts & Sciences, her career interests include consulting, software engineering, STEM project/product management, and social good initiatives. On campus, she has been involved in linguistic research, GIC, PennCAP, Penn FLITE (FGLI in Tech and Eng), Istmo y Vos (the central American interest student group), Society for Hispanic Professional Engineers, Sappho, and Women in Computer Science. Off-campus in her free time, Brandy enjoys practicing art expression, sticker making, and finding any excuse to interact with animals. Andrew Choe, Communications Manager him/him/his Andrew is a sophomore in the college studying PPE concentrating in choice and behavior. He is from Charlottesville, Virginia and strongly advocates for putting intersectionality into practice. He hopes to use his education to influence public policy in the future. At the GIC, he helps manage the content to share on social media. In his free time, he enjoys binge watching the latest t.v shows and going on spontaneous walks with his friends. Tristan Fajardo, Undergraduate Work-Study he/him Tristan is a sophomore in the college originally from Vancouver, BC in Canada. Being a First-Generation Lower-Income (FGLI) student himself, he understands the struggles that many students face at an institution such as Penn. Tristan is passionate about Indigenous Rights. At the GIC, he works with Natives at Penn as well as helps with FGLI initiatives. When not working at the GIC, you can find Tristan out on a run in Philadelphia, playing violin or studying and completing his endless pile of school work. Sarthak Jain he/him/his Oumy Diasse she/her/hers Diana Montes she/her/hers Diana is a Freshman in the College triple majoring in Cinema, Design, and Visual Studies. As a child of Mexican parents, she is an active member in the Latinx Community on campus with leadership postions in both MEChA, the mexican student group on campus, as well as the Latinx Coalition. With her leadership postions and her artistic side, she hopes to spread awareness of iniqualities that minoritized individuals face here at Penn and throughout the US educational system. Diana works towards inspiring more POC artists, in hopes that the artistic and film world will eventually become more representative of the various cultures and diversity that makes up our demographic. At the GIC she helps with day to day tasks and making sure the students needs are met. In her free time she loves to watch movies, cook, be craftly, and read books. FAQ Getting Involved: What is the Greenfield Intercultural Center (GIC) The mission of the Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center (GIC) is to serve as Penn’s resource for enhancing student’s intercultural knowledge, competency, and leadership. We do this through courses for credit, signature intercultural programs, and other services related to diversity and intercultural education. The center also works closely to advise and support student organizations interested in planning campus-wide intercultural activities. We are also available to assist in designing and implementing workshops on diversity issues for student organizations and administrative offices on campus. For graduate students interested in doing applied work in intercultural education, the center provides a small number of intercultural internships. How do I get involved in the GIC? The center has many courses and programs and the application deadlines are listed on our website. To get involved with student organizations associated with the GIC, contact the chair/president of that organization. If you still have questions, contact one of the GIC staff at the center and we would be happy to help you identify either opportunities at the center or elsewhere on campus or in Philadelphia. I heard about PACE, but how do I register? When does the class meet? PACE admits students through an application and interview process. Please follow this link to apply. Application deadlines are typically in early November for the spring semester. Can I take iBelieve course but NOT attend the Spring Break Trip No, all students are required to attend the spring break trip which will be Sunday afternoon through Thursday morning. Is the United Minorities Council (UMC) only for minorities? No, the United Minorities Council is an intercultural umbrella organization for various groups and individuals committed to intercultural understanding. All are welcome to join. Does the GIC offer training and workshops? Yes. The GIC has worked with departments across the university to design workshops that meet student and staff needs. Some examples include training workshops for CHAS staff; summer workshops for student interns in Engineering; and training workshops for tutors, and peer advisors. Does the GIC collaborate with other Penn departments and outside organizations? Yes, depending on the breadth and nature of the program. The very nature of intercultural work requires collaboration and the leverage of diverse resources and talents. All of our programs are collaborations between GIC and other campus and community partnerships. For more information, contact Director Valerie De Cruz at decruz@upenn.edu. Graduate Students: Are there opportunities for graduate students to get involved? Yes! Many graduate students take our courses and participate in our signature programs. There are also a few internships at the center for graduate students who are interested in doing applied work in intercultural education. To learn about our courses and signature programs, contact our Associate Director Kia Lor at lork@upenn.edu. For questions about the unpaid internships at the center, contact the Director Valerie De Cruz, decruz@upenn.edu. Program Support: Are there funding opportunities at the GIC, and if so how do I apply for them? The GIC funds programs with an intercultural goal. To request co-sponsorship, send an email to Director Valerie De Cruz at decruz@upenn.edu with a description of the event, itemized budget, and other sources that you are approaching for funding. This information should be sent at least three weeks before an event. What should I do if my group would like to pay a campus visit to the GIC? If your group is under 25 people, at least three-week notification is required. If your group is 25 people or more, at least one month of notification is required. For more information, contact Associate Director Kia Lor at lork@upenn.edu. How do I reserve a meeting space? For the Penn community, a room reservation can be made by completing our online reservation form. You can choose to reserve from the living room, library, student lounge (3rd floor), patio room, or outdoor patio. View our meeting spaces here: https://gic.vpul.upenn.edu/meetingspace/ Can I have computer access at the GIC? A computer cluster is available on the third floor of the GIC for use by Penn students. It is equipped with three computers and a printer. Should you experience concerns with the equipment, please contact a staff member. Penn Resources: What resources does Penn provide for Low-Income/First-Generation Students? Penn Compact 2020 illustrates the University’s commitment to increasing access and diversity. Penn strives to meet the full financial need of traditional undergraduates with an all-grant aid policy and to strengthen financial aid for graduate and professional students. Penn offers additional resources and supports that may be helpful for low-income or first-generation students. This web page provides links to services, support, and administrative contacts to assist you with any concerns. LEARN MORE History The Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center was established in 1984, in response to the 1978 United Minorities Council’s call for a campus center for minority students. Under the direction of the founding Director Rene Gonzalez, the Greenfield Intercultural Center’s mission was twofold: to provide support for student of color and to foster intercultural understanding on campus. He and his family lived in the house behind GIC and cultivated a culture of close-knit community at GIC. In addition to fostering intercultural understanding, the center was home to four major communities and helped establish ethnic heritage months and programs to celebrate the rich heritages of African American, Latino, Asian American and Native American communities. A decade ago, Penn expanded on the center’s mission by adding three sister centers, Makuu the Black Cultural Center, La Casa Latina- Center for Hispanic Excellence and PAACH- the Pan Asian American Community House. As these vibrant centers began to absorb and increase programming to serve those communities, the GIC in turn expanded its support for Native communities and has reached out to newer communities such as Arab communities, Turkish students and international students. The center also offers numerous courses for credit, programs, and services designed to engage students around diversity and enhance their cultural competency skills for the 21st century. Faithful to its original mission, the center continues to serve as an intercultural incubator of new ideas and programs and a resource not only for students but also to the greater Penn community. Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset