UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS URBANA-CHAMPAIGN Alumni Corporate Support Gies Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Our Story Office of the Dean Facilities Gies Facts Gies News Diversity, Equity and Inclusion For more than 100 years, Gies Business has intentionally designed its innovative programs, leading-edge curriculum, and experiential learning opportunities to empower and prepare students to turn big ideas into meaningful actions. Experience Gies Student Organizations Academic Advising Career Services Academies & Centers Experiential Learning Plan a Visit Related Links Disruption Lab MakerLab 3D Printing iVenture Accelerator McKinley Health Center Undergraduate Admissions Honors Majors and Minors Study Abroad Access & Multicultural Engagement Scholarships Student Success Graduate Accounting Business Analytics Finance Management iMBA Doctoral Programs Gies Professional Credentials Online Programs View All Programs McKinley Health Center Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Faculty & Staff Directory Academic Departments Research at Gies Research Articles Gies Business faculty – backed by decades of experience in their field - guide students to challenge assumptions, to be inventive, and to develop their own path. Search Text Search Button Our Story Office of the Dean Facilities Gies Facts Gies News Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Experience Gies Student Organizations Academic Advising Career Services Academies & Centers Experiential Learning Plan a Visit Undergraduate Admissions Honors Majors and Minors Study Abroad Access & Multicultural Engagement Scholarships Student Success Graduate Accounting Business Analytics Finance Management iMBA Doctoral Programs Gies Professional Credentials Online Programs View All Programs Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Faculty & Staff Directory Academic Departments Research at Gies Research Articles Congratulations! You did it. STAY CONNECTED Business on Purpose. Discover it here. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS A master’s degree for every undergraduate major. GRADUATE PROGRAMS Your front row seat in the global classroom. ONLINE PROGRAMS Poets&Quants 2021 Dean of the Year LEARN MORE More than business. Business on purpose. Knowledge alone won’t change the world. For that you need something more. Discover it at Gies College of Business. At Gies, everything we do is designed to help you connect the dots between your education and a purposeful future. Our programs encourage big thinking and big ideas. Our faculty and staff guide you to think beyond the possible. Your fellow students challenge your assumptions and help you invent new ways to make a difference. Gies provides the environment and resources that foster meaningful actions, empower you to make your mark, and put your purpose into practice – to make the world a better place. Gies News and Events Right time, right fit: Salvani uses iMSM to advance philanthropy career Jon Salvani is a proud representative of the University of Illinois; but one thing was missing: he wasn’t an alum. Wanting to deepen his connection to the UIUC community and advance his career in philanthropy, Salvani earned his Master of Science in Management online at Gies. PODCAST: Gies professor Don Fullerton on environment vs. economy Author, researcher and Gies professor Don Fullerton joins Tim Sinclair in this episode of the Gies Download podcast. Don studies the effects of environmental policy on the economy and then presents his research to world leaders and decision makers. Is it even possible to save the environment and protect the economy at the same time? Don's research might surprise you. Submariner Jasen Hicks works toward MBA when he’s not underwater After being stationed across both the United States and the world Naval Submarine Officer Jasen Hicks will retire from the Navy next year. He is planning on capping off his military career with 20 years under his belt and an MBA from Gies College of Business. Gies Business, AXIS renew partnership to attract students, support insurance research Gies Business and AXIS Capital Holdings Limited have renewed their partnership agreement, in which AXIS will contribute $1 million to help attract more students to the (re)insurance industry, teach them about risk management, and fund leading-edge faculty research that can support the field. VIEW ALL NEWS Jun 12Jun 13 All Day First Day of Instruction, Summer Term 2 Jun13 All Day First Day of Instruction, Summer Term 2 Aug22 All Day First Day of Instruction, Fall Semester Nov19 All Day Thanksgiving Break Begins VIEW ALL EVENTS VIEW ALL EVENTS Congratulations to our 2022 Dean's Scroll Award Winners! Congratulations to our 2022 Dean's Scroll Award Winners! The Dean’s Scroll Award, created in 2008, is an annual award presented by the Deans of Gies College of Business to ten graduating seniors of the College. This award honors those individuals who have demonstrated leadership skills that have benefited Gies College of Business and its students. A huge congratulations to the 29 Gies Business students named to the Senior 100 Honorary for 2022! A huge congratulations to the 29 Gies Business students named to the Senior 100 Honorary for 2022! Seniors were selected based on their leadership and loyalty to the University of Illinois, and are incredibly deserving of this recognition. We are so proud of each of them and look forward to seeing all they accomplish! Gies Business Twitter GET ALL THE LATEST --> We’re still celebrating the newest additions to the Gies Business Family! Welcome to the Class of 2026, Makira We’re still celebrating the newest additions to the Gies Business Family! Welcome to the Class of 2026, Makira Gies Business Instagram TAG US IN YOUR PICS --> We can't wait to celebrate with all our new Gies Business graduates next weekend! Tis the season. We can't wait to celebrate with all our new Gies Business graduates next weekend! No big deal, just Larry Gies hanging out with our 2022 Poets&Quants Best and Brightest undergraduate students Kayla Gonzalez and Alex Kogen Professor NNBD, just Larry Gies hanging out with our 2022 Poets&Quants Best and Brightest undergraduate students Kayla Gonzalez and Alex Kogenerissa Brown has been named the recipient of the Illinois CPA Society’s Lester H. McKeever Jr. Outstanding Leader in Advancing Diversity Award. Gies Business Professionals CONNECT WITH US --> LEARN ABOUT UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS LEARN ABOUT GRADUATE PROGRAMS Gies College of Business 515 East Gregory Drive Champaign, IL 61820 Phone: 217-300-7327 OUR PROGRAMS Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Doctoral Programs Gies Professional Credentials Online Programs OUR PEOPLE Alumni Corporate Faculty & Staff Contact Information RESOURCES Campus Map Athletics Inclusive Illinois Counseling Center University Police Gies Groups GiesLink Privacy PolicyAccessibilityCookie Settings© 2020 University of Illinois, Gies College of Business