search Sign-ons CyMail Outlook Canvas AccessPlus Directory Directory Maps Contact Us Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Skip to main content Genome Informatics Facility (GIF) Main menu ≡ About People Projects Publications Resources Blog Tutorials FAQ Request Support Bioinformatic Resources DNA RNA Protein Metabolites Scripting Research Plant Animal Microbe OutReach Grants Opinions search Search form Search Recent Bioinformatics News View all news We are hiring! Learn more. November 8, 2021 We're hiring! Are you a bioinformatician looking for a data to analyze on lots of interesting projects? Two research scientist positions and a postdoc. https://isu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/IowaStateJobs/job/Ames-IA/Research-Scientist-IV_R6598 https://isu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/IowaStateJobs/job/Ames-IA/Research-Scientist-III_R6599 https://www.zintellect.com/Opportunity/Details/USDA-ARS-2022-0025 Genome Informatics Facility Holiday hours December 21, 2020 Dear Researchers and faculty, As we are all get ready for a several well earned days of holiday break and look forward to a new year in 2021, this note provides information concerning staffing of the Genome Informatics Facility (GIF) over the coming weeks. This year, all of the GIF staff have opted to take vacation between the dates of December 24th, 2020 through January 3rd, 2021. What this means is that response time to emails and progress on projects during this time may be limited or delayed. Everyone will be back on Monday the 4th of January. Transforming big data into informative data to accelerate scientific discovery September 3, 2019 Andrew Severin will be presenting at the University of Iowa on September 4th about "Transforming big data into informative data to accelerate scientific discovery" Tackling Soybean Cyst Nematode in a New Way – The $1 Billion Pest Meets Its Match: A Seed World Strategy Webinar & Podcast May 31, 2019 Rick Masonbrink from the Genome Informatics Facility gives a presentation on the Soybean Cyst Nematode Genome he has worked on for the last several years. The Bioinformatics Workbook: Knowledge repository and educational resource April 2, 2019 Andrew Severin gave a 4 minute lightning talk about the Bioinformatics Workbook describing the problem it attempts to solve and invites researchers to suggest topics or collaborate in creating this resource. All News ISUGIF Twitter Feed Tweets by ISUGIF Request Bioinformatics Support Service Requests Bioinformatics Service Request Form Due to concern over the COVID-19 novel coronavirus, GIF staff and personnel are working remotely. We will continue to operate, however, all meetings will be performed remotely. If you need immediate assistance, please call (515) 294-1320 or email gifhelp@iastate.edu. The Genome Informatics Facility (GIF) of the Iowa State University Office of Biotechnology provides bioinformatics services for investigators within academia, industry and government. If you have questions about a bioinformatics project you can contact us at gifhelp@iastate.edu. If you would like to submit a request for bioinformatics services please submit your request at gif.biotech.iastate.edu/users or click on the above link Bioinformatics Service Request Form. Rates Our fees for service rates can be found here. As a general rule of thumb: The amount spent on bioinformatics will be at least as much spent on sequencing and closer to double the cost. This will ensure that you have enough budgeted to run the bioinformatics analysis, produce full documentation through a github repo required for reproducibility and generate figures, methods, results text for a paper. The basis for this estimation is that the amount of sequencing data that can be generated continues to increase exponentially. As data increases so does the complexity of the questions that can be answered with the data. As data and complexity increases the cost of bioinformatics increases. It is easy to underestimate the cost of bioinformatics. Category: Research Tags: Fee service Bioinformatics © 2019 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Site Index Site Map