Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Creating a Future Together Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources You can perpetuate your lifelong values while achieving your personal and philanthropic goals. There are many ways in which you can care for family members, receive financial benefits, and use the assets you have accumulated over a lifetime to make your dreams a reality. Thoughtful planning allows you to achieve charitable aspirations you may never have imagined possible. Whether you want to memorialize loved ones, minimize tax obligations, or simply find a way to support the areas of Columbia you care about the most, planned gifts encompass a variety of giving structures that can be tailored to ensure your values endure and inspire for generations to come. Columbia’s Office of Gift Planning serves donors to all schools and programs at Columbia. In collaboration with you, and in consultation with your legal or financial advisor, our gift planning experts can help you plan, provide, and preserve an enduring future. Getting Started There are many planned gifts that won’t affect your existing financial resources, but will have a significant impact on Columbia University. Give to the areas you care about the most, while maintaining control and flexibility. Learn How You Can Give » Make a Bequest A bequest is a gift provision in your will or revocable living trust. All assets, including cash, securities, real estate, and tangible personal property, may be transferred to Columbia University at the end of your life. Learn About Bequests » Bequest Language for Donors » The Ideal Gift for You? When determining the right gift option, it’s vital to first decide your most important personal and family goal. This could range from maximizing tax benefits to preserving assets for your heirs. Learn The Best Gift for You » Inspiring Stories Each and every day alumni and friends of Columbia are contributing to our mission and helping our institution make a lasting impact on students' lives and the world. Read some of their stories... Meet Our Alumni and Friends » Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University