Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Advisor Resources Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Bequest Language Find the Best Gift Compare Gifts Gift Calculator Advisor Resources Downloadable Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Bequest Language Find the Best Gift Compare Gifts Gift Calculator Advisor Resources Downloadable Resources Breadcrumb Home » Resources If you are advising a client who is considering a planned gift or bequest to Columbia University, we welcome the opportunity to work with you in helping your client. Please use the below resources and tools and feel free to contact us any time for further information or assistance on a confidential basis. Here is some basic information about our organization: Legal Name All charitable gifts should be directed to “The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, 622 West 113th Street New York, New York 10025, a New York 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, charitable organization, or its successor, Federal Tax Identification Number: 13-5598093.” Tax I.D. Number The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York's Tax ID number is 13-5598093. Consistent with safeguarding its own interests, Columbia University tries to make arranging a gift for the organization’s benefit as easy as possible, and we strive to honor the intentions of all our donors. Accordingly, we hope the following will prove helpful: Click here for suggested bequest wording. Click here for securities transfer instructions. Click here for a copy of our endowment policies. If one of your clients arranges an estate gift for the benefit of Columbia, we would very much appreciate knowing about the gift, both so we can express our sincere gratitude and – as noted above – so we can make sure we will be able to fulfill the donor’s wishes. Of course, we respect the fact that in some cases donors prefer to remain anonymous. If you are willing to serve as an intermediary, a client of yours can share information about his or her plans without divulging his or her identity. Click here to learn more about 1754 Society. Click here for a confidential form that can be used in notifying Columbia University that an estate gift has been arranged for the University’s benefit. Finally, we want to be of assistance to you in any way we can, whether you are simply looking for general information about charitable giving, considering particular options on behalf of a particular client, or needing our cooperation in the administration of a bequest or other type of planned gift. Contact us to discuss a potential – or hypothetical – gift situation or to request a gift illustration. Give our online calculator a try. Thank you for the work you do on behalf of our donors! Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University