Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn What You Can Give Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Stocks & Bonds Retirement Assets Life Insurance Real Estate Personal Property Donor-Advised Fund Future Business Success Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Stocks & Bonds Retirement Assets Life Insurance Real Estate Personal Property Donor-Advised Fund Future Business Success Resources Breadcrumb Home Learn which assets are most commonly used to fund a gift. Stocks & Bonds Giving appreciated stock that you have owned for more than one year is one of the most tax-advantaged ways to make charitable gifts. With careful planning, you can reduce your capital gains tax while supporting Columbia University. Learn more » Retirement Assets A gift of your retirement assets, such as an employee retirement plan, IRA, or tax-sheltered annuity, is an excellent way to make a gift. A gift of these assets can shield your heirs from taxes while funding Columbia's future. Learn more » Life Insurance Life insurance is a valuable asset for making a charitable gift. You can make a gift of a life insurance policy without diminishing other investments or assets earmarked for family members. Learn more » Real Estate A gift of real estate allows you to preserve your cash assets, receive tax and income advantages, and make a significant charitable gift to Columbia. Learn more » Personal Property A gift of artwork, coins, antiques, or other personal property can be an excellent way to support Columbia. Learn more » Donor-Advised Fund A donor-advised fund can provide you with immediate tax benefits while making your charitable giving easier for years to come. Might a donor-advised fund be right for you? Here’s how it works. Learn more » Future Business Success The Founders Pledge serves as a way to unite charitable goals with your business success. It is an innovative way for entrepreneurs to pledge a percentage of their venture’s future proceeds. Learn more » Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University