Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Charitable Remainder Trust Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options Gifts by Will or Trust Naming Us in Your Assets The IRA Gift (QCD) Life Income Gifts Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Retained Life Estates Bargain Sale What You Can Give Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options Gifts by Will or Trust Naming Us in Your Assets The IRA Gift (QCD) Life Income Gifts Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trust Charitable Lead Trust Retained Life Estates Bargain Sale What You Can Give Resources Breadcrumb Home » Giving Options » Life Income Gifts More on Remainder Trusts Flip Unitrust A charitable remainder unitrust can help you maintain or increase your income while making a significant gift to Columbia University. If your unitrust grows, your payments will grow too, providing a hedge against inflation. A unitrust provides more flexibility than other life income plans. A charitable remainder unitrust could be right for you if: You want to provide income for yourself or others. You want the possibility of income growth. You want to save income taxes or capital gains taxes. You want to choose the person who administers your gift and guides its investments. You want to make a generous gift to Columbia. You are considering a gift amount of $100,000 or more. Not seeing our interactive feature? If you're using Internet Explorer, your security settings my be blocking a script. Try these simple steps to resolve the problem: On the Tools menu, click Internet Options (If you cannot see the Tools menu, press Alt to display the menus) In the Internet Options dialogue box, click the Security tab Click Default Level Click OK Hit Refresh (or F5) Show more detailsHide details Separate Trust A charitable remainder unitrust is a tax-exempt trust governed by a trust agreement. You choose the trustee who is responsible for administering the unitrust and guiding the investment of its assets. Irrevocable Gift A charitable remainder unitrust is an irrevocable arrangement. Once you transfer assets to the trust, you cannot change your mind and get the assets back. This requirement assures that whatever value remains in your unitrust when it ends will go to support Columbia. Payments Vary with Value of Unitrust Each year, your unitrust will distribute a fixed percentage of its current value, as revalued annually. If your unitrust's value goes up from one year to the next, its payments will increase proportionally. Likewise, if your unitrust's value goes down, its payments will also go down. Remaining Assets to Columbia University When your unitrust ends, all of its remaining principal will become available to support Columbia. You Choose the Payment Percentage You choose the percentage of your unitrust’s value that it must pay each year to its income beneficiaries. The payment percentage must be at least 5%. It may be to your advantage to choose a relatively low payment percentage so that your unitrust’s assets have the best chance to grow. If the value of your unitrust grows, so will its payments. A payment rate of 5% to 6% is typical. Payments are usually made in annual, semiannual, or quarterly installments. Payment Flexibility You can include special payment provisions in your unitrust that make it a good way to give debt-free real estate or other illiquid assets that may take time to sell. In this situation, you can limit your unitrust's payments to its net income or its unitrust percentage, whichever is less. This way, your trustee can take the time necessary to sell your assets at a fair price. If your unitrust's net income is less than its unitrust percentage during this time, then it will distribute its net income only. This "net income" limitation can last for the entire term of your unitrust or just until a specific event occurs, such as the sale of your gift asset. Who Can Receive Payments? You decide who will get the payments from your unitrust. Usually, this will be you, or you and your spouse. You can, however, select other people to receive the payments. For example, you may wish to provide income for parents, a sibling, or children. How Long Do Payments Last? While most unitrusts last for one or two lives, other terms are possible. A unitrust can last for more than two lives, for a specific length of time of up to 20 years, or for a combination of lives and years. Tax Benefits Earn an immediate income tax charitable deduction. Avoid capital gains tax. May reduce estate taxes and probate costs. You will receive an income tax charitable deduction in the year of your gift. If you cannot use the entire deduction in the year of the gift, you may carry forward your unused deduction for up to five additional years. If you give appreciated securities to fund your unitrust, you will not pay any capital gains tax when you make your gift. In addition, because a unitrust is a tax-exempt trust, it will not pay any capital gains tax when it sells these assets. This means that your trustee will be able to reinvest the full value of the assets you donate. By removing the gift assets from your estate, you may also reduce estate taxes if your estate exceeds the then applicable estate tax credit. You may also reduce probate costs when your estate is settled. The amount of these savings will depend on the size of your estate and on estate tax law in force at the time your estate is settled. Taxation of Payments The taxation of unitrust payments depends on the trust’s past distributions and investment performance. Payments from a unitrust are typically taxed as ordinary income. If the trust is funded with appreciated assets, a portion of the payments could be taxed at lower capital gains tax rates in some years. It is even possible for a portion of the payments to be tax-free in years when there is not enough ordinary income and capital gain income to make the payments. Add Funds Anytime You can make additional gifts to your unitrust anytime. Additions earn an additional income tax charitable deduction that may save you income taxes if you itemize your deductions. You will also increase future payments without the effort and expense of creating a new unitrust. Assets to Consider Giving The following assets make excellent sources for funding your charitable remainder unitrust: Cash that you currently have in a savings account, bank CD, money-market fund, or other safe but low-yielding investment. Securities, especially highly-appreciated securities. It is also possible to create a unitrust using real estate that is debt-free or other illiquid assets that may take time to sell. Example Betty Garner is 76 years old and her husband John is 75. Many of the stocks in their portfolio have appreciated substantially in value over the many years the Garners have owned them. They are enthusiastic about making a major gift to support Columbia University, but they also would welcome a way to receive greater income from their investments without paying a big capital gains tax. After consulting with their advisor, the Garners find that a 5% charitable remainder unitrust funded with $500,000 in assets will meet their needs perfectly. They fund their unitrust with $400,000 in stocks plus $100,000 from a money market fund. They paid a total of $75,000 for the stocks, which currently produce about 2% in dividends each year. Their money market fund has been earning about 2% interest annually. Benefits The Garners will receive $25,000 in payments in the first year of their unitrust, significantly increasing the income they had been receiving from these assets. If the income and appreciation of the trust's investments, net of costs and fees, total 7% annually, their payments will grow to over $33,647/year* in 16 years. The Garners will receive an immediate income tax charitable deduction of about $251,565**. The Garners' trustee will be able to sell their stock immediately in order to diversify their unitrust's investments without paying any capital gains tax. Assuming its investments earn a 7% net annual return on the unitrust's investments, over $686,393* will be left in the Garners' unitrust to support Columbia University when their unitrust terminates. *The future payment amounts and principal amount remaining for Columbia University will be lower if the Garners' unitrust earns less than 7% annually. **The Garners' income tax charitable deduction will vary slightly depending on the timing of their gift. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University