Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Donor-Advised Fund Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Stocks & Bonds Retirement Assets Life Insurance Real Estate Personal Property Donor-Advised Fund Future Business Success Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Stocks & Bonds Retirement Assets Life Insurance Real Estate Personal Property Donor-Advised Fund Future Business Success Resources Breadcrumb Home » What You Can Give Make a Gift with a Donor-Advised Fund The donor-advised fund (DAF) is becoming an increasingly popular way to make a charitable gift. DAFs can provide you with immediate tax benefits while making your charitable giving easier. Here are two simple ways you can make a gift through your DAF: Make an outright gift by suggesting a grant to Columbia University. Designate Columbia University to receive all or a portion of the fund value upon the termination of the fund. You can select the option that best suits your philanthropic and financial goals to support the Columbia University. Just contact your fund administrator to request a distribution or beneficiary form or download the appropriate form(s) from your administrator’s website. If you include Columbia University in your plans, please let us know and use our legal name and federal tax ID. Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Address: Columbia Alumni Center ATTN: Gift Systems 622 W. 113th Street, MC 4524 New York, NY 10025 Federal Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 DONATE NOW: Give From Your Donor Advised Fund To make a gift now through your DAF, simply type in the name of your DAF and click the button below to go to your fund's login page. Let us know if you don't see your fund. Creating a Non Columbia Donor-Advised Fund Creating a donor-advised fund can provide you with immediate tax benefits while making your charitable giving easier for years to come. How It Works: You establish a fund at a sponsoring charity. This could be a community foundation, a public charity with a donor-advised fund program, or even one of the well-known investment companies that sponsor donor-advised funds. First, check with the fund sponsor about the minimum contribution to start a fund as it ranges from $5,000 to $25,000. Then, make an initial contribution to start your fund of cash or appreciated assets such as stocks or mutual funds. You’ll get an immediate income tax deduction and some sponsors will even let you name your fund. Once established, you can suggest that your favorite public charities, such as Columbia University, receive grants from your fund. The grants can be relatively modest or larger for projects such as a capital campaign or a new building. You do not get an additional tax deduction for these grants. You can also suggest which charities you want to have any remaining assets in your fund at your passing. Columbia University is grateful for gifts that come from donor-advised funds. If you are considering establishing a donor-advised fund we can suggest several fund sponsors for your review. You should also consult your professional advisor for their guidance. Columbia Donor-Advised Funds How It Works: You make a tax-deductible gift of $1 million or more to Columbia to establish a donor-advised fund now and later advise on how you would like the University to use the gift. While you are considering what your donor-advised fund will support, the gift is then invested with other managed assets in the University’s endowment—which is managed by the Columbia Investment Management Company. As the fund harnesses the power of Columbia’s professionally managed endowment and grows over time, the donor gives recommendations for the distribution of both the original gift and the fund’s income and investment growth. Generally, half of these distributions must remain at Columbia; other eligible charities may receive up to 50%. Many donors who are either considering or currently have a private foundation like the fact that donor-advised funds can function very similarly to a foundation without all of the complicated administration. Benefits: Professional Investment Management: all donor-advised funds are invested in Columbia’s endowment. Tax Advantages: you receive an immediate tax deduction when you make a donor-advised fund gift. Flexible: at least 50% goes to Columbia, and the rest may be distributed to other eligible nonprofit organizations. Cost Effective: Columbia does not charge any fees for the fund administration. Time-Saver: unlike a private foundation that requires time to administer, Columbia administers all matters that relate to a donor-advised fund, including investments, distributions, and reporting. Privacy: when a foundation is created, its tax forms are made public—exposing details of the foundation’s operations and even some personal information. In comparison, a donor-advised fund offers the donor more privacy because no information is available when the fund is established. Minimum gift level: $1 million; $250,000 for additional gifts Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University