Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Bequest Language Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Bequest Language Find the Best Gift Compare Gifts Gift Calculator Advisor Resources Downloadable Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Bequest Language Find the Best Gift Compare Gifts Gift Calculator Advisor Resources Downloadable Resources Breadcrumb Home » Resources Download Bequest Language The following is intended to help you and your attorney in drafting a bequest that satisfies your interests. As you consult your attorney on the selection of appropriate wording to reflect your own goals and intentions regarding Columbia University, be sure our organization’s correct legal name appears in all final documents as: “The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, 622 West 113th Street New York, New York 10025, a New York nonprofit corporation, or its successor, Federal Tax Identification Number: 13-5598093.” UNRESTRICTED vs. RESTRICTED GIFTS Unrestricted gifts are especially valuable to Columbia because they allow the University to fulfill its highest priorities and greatest needs. I give and bequeath $ / percent of my residual estate to THE TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK for its general purposes. Restricted gifts allow you to support a particular program or purpose you might have in mind. You may choose to help fund undergraduate financial aid, graduate fellowships, pioneering research, faculty salaries, libraries, or a particular area or department of interest. I give and bequeath $ / percent of my residual estate to THE TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK to ... ... provide scholarships for undergraduate students attending Columbia College/The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science/the School of General Studies. ... provide fellowships to graduate students studying in the School of or Department of ______________. If there is a particular area of study or program you would like to support, please call the Office of Gift Planning to discuss your wishes. We can provide you with the appropriate language to ensure your gift can be used as you intend. CURRENT USE vs. ENDOWMENT Establishing a current use fund for a specific program or department allows Columbia the flexibility of using the full amount of your gift as needed. I give and bequeath $ / percent of my residual estate to THE TRUSTEES OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK to establish the [NAME OF FUND] Fund, a current use fund that will be used to support ______________. Establishing an endowed fund creates a permanent endowment that provides income every year in perpetuity to carry out its purposes. Endowed funds often take the form of scholarships, professorships, or other naming opportunities across the University’s schools and programs. As minimum amounts for creating endowed funds vary over time, please consult with the Office of Gift Planning when considering this option. We can also help you craft bequest language that will fulfill both your wishes and the needs of the University. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University