Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Impact Makers Gift Planning Why Plan Now 1754 Society Bringing Your Values To Life Making More Possible Impact Makers Alex Li ’73CC Bahary Brothers Barbara Campagna ’86GSAPP Carlos A. Cuevas `CC05 `12IA `12PH Carlos Cruz ’88CC Carlos Medeiros ’85BUS Cindy Graham Tether ’80BUS Dan Baker '76CC David F. A. Walker ’80CC Dorothy Butler Gilliam ’61JN Dr. Hasan Bazari ’76CC, ’78GSAS, ’79GSAS Dr. Theo George Wilson Eleanor (Ellie) S. Applewhaite ’62LAW Ethelyn Katz Geschwind ’84SEAS Frank Gumper Frank Rinaldi ’99SEAS Gordon Kit ’76CC Grace Frisone Hartley Platt du Pont '76SOA Jacqueline Rosay, ’64GSAS Jeff Franklin '68SEAS Jooyun "Julie" Oh Ybarra ’98BUS Keville Frederickson Tomasson ’64NRS, ’74TC Laurie Gehen Marsden ’98GS ’99SW Len Levine ’70CC Linda Winslow ’67JN Louis A. Parks,’95GSAS, ’03BUS, ’12GS Marcella Stapor ’59GS Marian Chuan '57SW Michele Esposito ’96CC Milagro Ruiz Omar ’59SEAS and Camella Wing Passing the Baton Patricia Riley '76NRS Paul LeClerc ’66GSAS ’69GSAS Rex Smith ’80CJN Richard Simmons and Mary Bleeker Simmons ’60NRS Thomas K. Chu '89CC Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now 1754 Society Bringing Your Values To Life Making More Possible Impact Makers Alex Li ’73CC Bahary Brothers Barbara Campagna ’86GSAPP Carlos A. Cuevas `CC05 `12IA `12PH Carlos Cruz ’88CC Carlos Medeiros ’85BUS Cindy Graham Tether ’80BUS Dan Baker '76CC David F. A. Walker ’80CC Dorothy Butler Gilliam ’61JN Dr. Hasan Bazari ’76CC, ’78GSAS, ’79GSAS Dr. Theo George Wilson Eleanor (Ellie) S. Applewhaite ’62LAW Ethelyn Katz Geschwind ’84SEAS Frank Gumper Frank Rinaldi ’99SEAS Gordon Kit ’76CC Grace Frisone Hartley Platt du Pont '76SOA Jacqueline Rosay, ’64GSAS Jeff Franklin '68SEAS Jooyun "Julie" Oh Ybarra ’98BUS Keville Frederickson Tomasson ’64NRS, ’74TC Laurie Gehen Marsden ’98GS ’99SW Len Levine ’70CC Linda Winslow ’67JN Louis A. Parks,’95GSAS, ’03BUS, ’12GS Marcella Stapor ’59GS Marian Chuan '57SW Michele Esposito ’96CC Milagro Ruiz Omar ’59SEAS and Camella Wing Passing the Baton Patricia Riley '76NRS Paul LeClerc ’66GSAS ’69GSAS Rex Smith ’80CJN Richard Simmons and Mary Bleeker Simmons ’60NRS Thomas K. Chu '89CC Plan Your Legacy Giving Options What You Can Give Resources Breadcrumb Home » Why Plan Now Our alumni and friends, and the beneficiaries of their generosity, have stories to share. Read their inspiring stories below: Alex Li ’73CC Alex Li is planning now to make more possible for students through a charitable remainder unitrust (CRUT). Learn more » Bahary Brothers For brothers Kamel, Emil, and Bill Bahary, Columbia University is more than just their alma mater. It's their intellectual home. Learn more » Barbara Campagna ’86GSAPP “I attended Columbia thanks to a generous scholarship. I’m planning my gift now so that others like me can study what they love and make an impact.” Learn more » Carlos A. Cuevas 'CC05 '12IA '12PH “The generosity of the Columbia community changed the course of my entire family’s life.” Learn more » Carlos Cruz ’88CC “I hope for the better. I think we all do, but I think most Columbia graduates go out into the world hoping to improve it.” Learn more » Carlos Medeiros ’85BUS “The outstanding education I got at Columbia Business School was instrumental to my very fulfilling career.” Learn more » Cindy Graham Tether ’80BUS "Columbia prepared me with a great education, and now I feel blessed to be able to give back." Learn more » Dan Baker '76CC Dan Baker `76CC learned to be generous of self when he was an undergraduate at Columbia, a value he put into service after graduation in his successful career in non-profits and consulting. Learn more » David F. A. Walker ’80CC David F. A. Walker ’80CC worked in fundraising for 30 years and was still raising money for nonprofits after his retirement, but didn't have any charities in his will until he got a call from Columbia’s gift planning office. Learn more » Dorothy Butler Gilliam ’61JN "My hope is that my gifts expand access to the study of journalism to those who couldn't otherwise afford it." Learn more » Dr. Hasan Bazari ’76CC, ’78GSAS, ’79GSAS Dr. Hasan Bazari ’76CC, ’78GSAS and ’79GSAS understands what it means to pay it forward and he knows from experience the importance of giving back. Learn more » Dr. Theo George Wilson Dr. Theo George Wilson first connected with Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute through his late wife Claudia Land, who went back to school at Columbia later in life. Learn more » Eleanor (Ellie) S. Applewhaite ’62LAW For Eleanor (Ellie) S. Applewhaite ’62LAW, who attended law school at the height of the civil rights movement, her Columbia connections proved indispensable. Learn more » Ethelyn Katz Geschwind ’84SEAS “It’s that simple to impact someone’s whole life for the better.” Learn more » Frank Gumper “I have always had a fondness for Lamont; they do great work, and I received a great education,” Frank says. “Because of the education I received, I had a very fortunate business career. " Learn more » Frank Rinaldi ’99SEAS Frank Rinaldi is planning now to make more possible through a bequest to the Columbia University sailing program. Learn more » Gordon Kit ’76CC The love of film has been ingrained in Gordon Kit ’76CC since childhood, when he frequented drive-in theaters with his family. Learn more » Grace Frisone As a first-generation college student, earned two master’s degrees from Columbia University, in international affairs in 1976 followed by an MBA in 1977. Learn more » Hartley Platt du Pont '76SOA Hartley “Harty” Platt du Pont `76SOA has enjoyed several successful careers led by her love of art and sports and her time at Columbia. Learn more » Jacqueline Rosay, ’64GSAS “I just loved school and particularly loved Columbia. Now I want to reciprocate.” Learn more » Jeff Franklin '68SEAS "It was important to us to see the effects of our giving now." Learn more » Jooyun "Julie" Oh Ybarra ’98BUS "When you make a charitable gift, start with your most appreciated securities." Learn more » Keville Frederickson Tomasson ’64NRS, ’74TC “I've always thought of Columbia as part of my family, and I want to help future students feel that same connection.” Learn more » Laurie Gehen Marsden ’98GS ’99SW From Fashion Model to Psychotherapist: A Career Change with Columbia’s Help Inspires a Bequest Learn more » Len Levine ’70CC “The entire university seemed wide open intellectually, and I found that very attractive.” Learn more » Linda Winslow ’67JN Linda Winslow, ’67JN, got in on the ground floor of the creation of public television and from its inception was a producer of PBS NewsHour. Learn more » Louis A. Parks,’95GSAS, ’03BUS, ’12GS For Louis A. Parks,’95GSAS, ’03BUS, ’12GS, learning is a lifelong undertaking. Learn more » Marcella Stapor ’59GS "Seeing what my gift means to the students has been one of the highlights of my life." Learn more » Marian Chuan '57SW "If we commit our lives to making things better, even just a little, we can change the world." Learn more » Michele Esposito ’96CC Michele Esposito ’96CC is a very active volunteer at Columbia College: She currently serves on the Columbia College Alumni Association board of directors. Learn more » Milagro Ruiz “By investing in Columbia students, I feel like I'm giving to the world.” Learn more » Omar ’59SEAS and Camella Wing "Columbia taught me what quality education is all about." Learn more » Patricia Riley '76NRS Columbia Nurse Graduate Establishes Scholarship at the School of Nursing Learn more » Paul LeClerc ’66GSAS ’69GSAS “There is a real joy in giving to an institution that you love. That’s the magic of it. You can advance scholarship, teaching, and learning in one of the world’s best universities. ” Learn more » Rex Smith ’80CJN Rex Smith’s career was launched at age 7, when he created a neighborhood newspaper, The Maywood Roundup. Learn more » Richard Simmons and Mary Bleeker Simmons ’60NRS “My parents wanted to give those who were interested in pursuing the field of nursing an opportunity to do so by opening a scholarship fund to make that dream possible.” Learn more » Scott Yagoda, Esq. ’86CC ’92LAW When Scott Yagoda, Esq. ’86CC ’92LAW sat down to write his college essay, he used a metaphor that he’d end up carrying throughout his life. Scott wrote about being a member of the Jewish faith and a member of a closely-knit family, and how these identities are like being in a relay race. Learn more » Thomas K. Chu ’89CC “It’s so important to show your gratitude, to help make more possible for the next generation and to continue to break down barriers. For these reasons, giving back was easy for me to do.” Learn more » Gift TypeCharitable Gift AnnuityGift in Will or Living TrustCharitable Remainder TrustBeneficiary DesignationTestamentary Life Income PlanGift of Unique AssetDonor-Advised Fund School/InstituteColumbia Business SchoolColumbia CollegeColumbia EngineeringColumbia GSAPPColumbia GSASColumbia Journalism SchoolColumbia Law SchoolColumbia School of General StudiesColumbia School of NursingColumbia School of Social WorkColumbia School of the ArtsColumbia SIPAMailman School of Public HealthTeachers CollegeZuckerman Institute Alex Li ’73CC Alex Li is planning now to make more possible for students through a charitable remainder unitrust (CRUT). Learn more » Bahary Brothers For brothers Kamel, Emil, and Bill Bahary, Columbia University is more than just their alma mater. It's their intellectual home. Learn more » Barbara Campagna ’86GSAPP “I attended Columbia thanks to a generous scholarship. I’m planning my gift now so that others like me can study what they love and make an impact.” Learn more » Carlos A. Cuevas ’CC05 ’12IA ’12PH “The generosity of the Columbia community changed the course of my entire family’s life.” Learn more » Carlos Cruz ’88CC “I hope for the better. I think we all do, but I think most Columbia graduates go out into the world hoping to improve it.” Learn more » Carlos Medeiros ’85BUS “The outstanding education I got at Columbia Business School was instrumental to my very fulfilling career.” Learn more » Cindy Graham Tether ’80BUS "Columbia prepared me with a great education, and now I feel blessed to be able to give back." Learn more » Dan Baker ’76CC Dan Baker `76CC learned to be generous of self when he was an undergraduate at Columbia, a value he put into service after graduation in his successful career in non-profits and consulting. Learn more » David F. A. Walker ’80CC David F. A. Walker ’80CC worked in fundraising for 30 years and was still raising money for nonprofits after his retirement, but didn't have any charities in his will until he got a call from Columbia’s gift planning office. Learn more » Dorothy Butler Gilliam ’61JN "My hope is that my gifts expand access to the study of journalism to those who couldn't otherwise afford it." Learn more » Dr. Theo George Wilson Dr. Theo George Wilson first connected with Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute through his late wife Claudia Land, who went back to school at Columbia later in life. Learn more » Eleanor (Ellie) S. Applewhaite ’62LAW For Eleanor (Ellie) S. Applewhaite ’62LAW, who attended law school at the height of the civil rights movement, her Columbia connections proved indispensable. Learn more » Ethelyn Katz Geschwind ’84SEAS “It’s that simple to impact someone’s whole life for the better.” Learn more » Frank Gumper ’73GSAS, ’83BUS “I have always had a fondness for Lamont; they do great work, and I received a great education,” Frank says. “Because of the education I received, I had a very fortunate business career. " Learn more » Frank Rinaldi ’99SEAS Frank Rinaldi is planning now to make more possible through a bequest to the Columbia University sailing program. Learn more » Gordon Kit ’76CC The love of film has been ingrained in Gordon Kit ’76CC since childhood, when he frequented drive-in theaters with his family. Learn more » Grace Frisone ’76SIPA, ’77BUS As a first-generation college student, earned two master’s degrees from Columbia University, in international affairs in 1976 followed by an MBA in 1977. Learn more » Hartley Platt du Pont ’76SOA Hartley “Harty” Platt du Pont `76SOA has enjoyed several successful careers led by her love of art and sports and her time at Columbia. Learn more » Dr. Hasan Bazari ’76CC, ’78GSAS, ’79GSAS Dr. Hasan Bazari ’76CC, ’78GSAS and ’79GSAS understands what it means to pay it forward and he knows from experience the importance of giving back. Learn more » Jacqueline Rosay, ’64GSAS “I just loved school and particularly loved Columbia. Now I want to reciprocate.” Learn more » Jeff Franklin ’68SEAS "It was important to us to see the effects of our giving now." Learn more » Jooyun "Julie" Oh Ybarra ’98BUS "When you make a charitable gift, start with your most appreciated securities." Learn more » Keville Frederickson Tomasson ’64NRS, ’74TC “I've always thought of Columbia as part of my family, and I want to help future students feel that same connection.” Learn more » Laurie Gehen Marsden ’98GS ’99SW From Fashion Model to Psychotherapist: A Career Change with Columbia’s Help Inspires a Bequest Learn more » Len Levine ’70CC “The entire university seemed wide open intellectually, and I found that very attractive.” Learn more » Linda Winslow ’67JN Linda Winslow, ’67JN, got in on the ground floor of the creation of public television and from its inception was a producer of PBS NewsHour. Learn more » Louis A. Parks,’95GSAS, ’03BUS, ’12GS For Louis A. Parks,’95GSAS, ’03BUS, ’12GS, learning is a lifelong undertaking. Learn more » Marcella Stapor ’59GS "Seeing what my gift means to the students has been one of the highlights of my life." Learn more » Marian Chuan ’57SW "If we commit our lives to making things better, even just a little, we can change the world." Learn more » Michele Esposito ’96CC Michele Esposito ’96CC is a very active volunteer at Columbia College: She currently serves on the Columbia College Alumni Association board of directors. Learn more » Milagro Ruiz ’84GS “By investing in Columbia students, I feel like I'm giving to the world.” Learn more » Omar ’59SEAS and Camella Wing "Columbia taught me what quality education is all about." Learn more » Patricia Riley ’76NRS Columbia Nurse Graduate Establishes Scholarship at the School of Nursing Learn more » Paul LeClerc ’66GSAS ’69GSAS “There is a real joy in giving to an institution that you love. That’s the magic of it. You can advance scholarship, teaching, and learning in one of the world’s best universities. ” Learn more » Rex Smith ’80CJN Rex Smith’s career was launched at age 7, when he created a neighborhood newspaper, The Maywood Roundup. Learn more » Richard Simmons and Mary Bleeker Simmons ’60NRS “My parents wanted to give those who were interested in pursuing the field of nursing an opportunity to do so by opening a scholarship fund to make that dream possible.” Learn more » Scott Yagoda, Esq. ’86CC ’92LAW “Columbia has been a gift to my family. I want someone else to have that gift, and hopefully, with endowed scholarships, it’ll be a forever gift.” Learn more » Thomas K. Chu ’89CC “It’s so important to show your gratitude, to help make more possible for the next generation and to continue to break down barriers. For these reasons, giving back was easy for me to do.” Learn more » Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University