Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Areas to Support UofL Cares FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction 1. Who can I make a gift to through the self-service process via payroll deduction? The self-service process has been setup so that you can easily go in and make a gift through payroll deduction to University of Louisville or any of our partnering charities listed on the UofL Cares page. 2. Are there instructions that will walk me through the self-service process to set up my payroll gift deduction? Yes, please visit our “How To” tab that will explain and illustrate the process. 3. How do I know when my first gift deduction will start? It is recommended that you select a start date that is after your next available payday. For example, today is 08/29/2018 and your next biweekly payday is 09/07/2018, you would then select a start date of 09/08/2018 for your deductions to begin. 4. How do I make sure that my new gift deduction will start when my current gift deduction ends? Once you log into the self-service panel and see your existing deduction, there will bestop date listed. When you select “Add Deduction” and enter the new deduction information, your start date must be at least one day after your stop date. For example, if your stop date is 09/30/2018. You will want your new deduction to have a start date of 10/01/2018. 5. How do I stop my current gift deduction to have a new gift deduction go to a different area? It is recommended that you select a start and stop date that is after your next available payday. For example, today is 08/29/2018and your next biweekly payday is 09/07/2018. Select a stop date of 09/08/2018 for your current gift deduction to end. Then select a start date of 09/09/2018 for your new gift deduction to begin. 6. What if I entered the wrong amount – how do I change the amount? If you entered the wrong amount and need to change it, go to the deduction and enter the stop date of today. That will stop that deduction. Then go to “Add Deduction” to select your deduction and put in the correct amount with a start date as noted above. 7. What if I want my gift to support more than one area within the University? Once you have completed the first deduction, the system will take you back to the first screen where you started. You will select “Add Deduction” to add an additional gift deduction. You can continue to do this for as many gift deductions as you like. 8. What if I don’t see the area listed within the University of where I want to give? Do not worry, the gift staff will be happy to assist you. Simple send an email note to their service account at: devalum@louisville.edu with the following information: • full name • employee identification number • the area you want your gift to support (providing a specific gift or endowment program speedtype is best if you know it) • total amount of your pledge • amount you want deducted per pay period • payroll group (biweekly, monthly, 10 month, etc.) 9. How do I make my gift a continuous deduction that comes out until I decide to stop? Determine how much you want to pay each pay period and enter that amount. It is important that your amount per pay period is correct. For the pledged amount enter $999,999 and do not enter in a stop date. Your gift deductions will continue to come out each pay period until the goal amount is reached, you request that it be stopped or you stop it yourself. 10. How do I stop my gift deduction if it is continuous? How do I stop my gift deduction if it is for a specified amount and not yet paid in full? To stop your deduction for either situation, just select the day following your next payday as your deduction end date. For example, if your next pay date is 09/07/2018, change the deduction end date to be 09/08/2018. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search