Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu Home Faculty Support & Research The quality of faculty at Texas Tech directly affects the university, its students, and world-changing research. Supporting faculty members and their research allows Texas Tech to attract and retain world-class scholars or industry leaders, which impacts the quality of education, innovative research, and ultimately the reputation of our university. Endowed Faculty Positions Being named an endowed professor or endowed chair is an honor reserved for faculty members of academic and scholarly distinction who will bring both remarkable talent and significant prestige to Texas Tech. At the direction of the dean, each college uses a selection process that may include an advisory committee to review qualified faculty candidates—both internal and external. Recommendations are submitted to the provost and president for review and approval. About Endowments >> Endowed Chairs An endowed chair position honors distinguished faculty who have exceptional achievement or leadership, which supports our most innovative scholars or leaders of academic departments. Established with a gift of at least $2 million, the endowment supports research, provides for creative scholarship, and may also supplement faculty salaries. Endowed Professorships An endowed professorship provides recognition of a single professor for notable scholarly activity and academic achievement. Established with a gift of $1 million, the endowment supports activity similar to an endowed chair. Endowed Faculty Excellence Fund An endowed faculty excellence fund provides the department and college with the ability to recognize excellence among faculty. Established with a gift of at least $250,000, the fund has the flexibility to support research, creative scholarship, education, or outreach. About Endowments >> Funding Research Individuals, foundations, and companies find value in creating funds that further research or scholarly endeavors like symposiums and centers. These may focus on a specific subject area or support research by undergraduate or graduate students. Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact