Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Areas to Support UofL Cares UofL Cares The UofL Cares program is an opportunity for the university family to unite together in support of our community partners. This partnership provides critical resources that positively impacts our neighbors. Join us today by supporting one or more of our partnering charities. Make a Direct Gift You may give to the charity of your choice, or each, directly below. One time as well as re-occurring credit and checking account donations are available through each respective giving link. Give by UofL Payroll Deduction Faculty and staff may signup to give via payroll deduction by logging into PeopleSoft below. Follow our How-To page for detailed instructions. For a list of Frequently Asked Questions, go here. Payroll Deduction Community Partners Community Health Charities Community Health Charities exists to empower people to take action to improve health and wellbeing. We support education, treatment, and prevention for those with health challenges; bring organizations together to improve community health; provide individuals with opportunities to get involved; and increase the capacity of nonprofit organizations. We partner with 18 charities in Louisville such as the Alzheimer’s Association, American Cancer Society, Children’s Hospital Foundation, Kids Cancer Alliance, Ronald McDonald House of Kentuckiana, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, and Supplies Over Seas. Cindy Sandoval | csandoval@healthcharities.org | 916-246-0749 Give Now Fund for the Arts The Fund for the Arts is a regional nonprofit committed to building a vibrant community through the power of the arts. We believe the arts fuel our economy, inspire student success, bring people together and simply make our community an amazing, unique place. (Be sure to designate UofL as the employee when making your gift.) Ellen Grinstead Yunker | eyunker@fundforthearts.org | 502-582-0124 Give Now Kosair Charities Kosair Charities enhances the health and well-being of children by delivering financial support for healthcare, research, education, social services, and child advocacy. We envision a world in which children in need live life to the fullest. Please note 'UofL Cares' in the comment section of the donation form. Sarah Hugenberg | shugenberg@kosair.org | 502-814-9899 Give Now Metro United Way Metro United Way fights for the education, financial independence, and health of every person in Jefferson, Bullitt, Oldham, and Shelby counties in Kentucky, and Clark, Floyd, and Harrison counties in Southern Indiana. We bring together people and resources to tackle our community’s most significant challenges and improve lives. Help us build a community where every person can achieve their full potential. Brian Eichenberger | brian.eichenberger@metrounitedway.org | 502-292-6216 Give Now WHAS Crusade for Children The WHAS Crusade for Children grants 100% of all donations to agencies, schools and hospitals in Kentucky and southern Indiana to better the lives of children with special needs. Thanks to your generosity, 218 grants were awarded last year. Millions of children have been helped by the WHAS Crusade since 1954. John Blim | jblim@whas11.com | 502-582-7521 Give Now University of Louisville In the coming weeks, you will have the opportunity to impact any college, school, or program of your choice at UofL. Now is the time for the entire Cardinal Family to unite in support of our university. Your gift, of any amount, will add up quickly and immediately impact our campus. Judy Singleton | judith.singleton@louisville.edu | 502-852-7021 Give Now Contact Us University of Louisville funduofl@louisville.edu Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search