Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Contact Us FAQs FAQs Your regular support of UofL helps keep the university affordable for students, provides opportunities for learning and discovery, and ensures UofL's progress as a major metropolitan research university. Your gifts to the university provide the flexibility to meet emerging needs and challenges. Make a Gift Frequently Asked Questions What is the institution tax ID number? The tax ID for the University of Louisville Foundation is 23-7078461. Where will my gift go? When you make a gift, you may designate your gift to the area of you select. If you have a specific area you wish to support, let us know by writing your designation in the "Other" field. Once we receive your gift, we place it in an account designated for the priority you selected. How is my gift processed? Effective January 1, 2021, the gift processing unit for charitable gifts to UofL transitioned out of University Advancement and became part of the University of Louisville Foundation. This change enables gifts to be processed and deposited within a single entity as opposed to passing through multiple offices on campus prior to being delivered to the bank for deposit. When someone makes a gift to fund academic needs at UofL, the funds go to the UofL Foundation so the transaction can be recorded, donor records can be updated, and the funds deposited into the bank and are made available to the appropriate UofL unit(s) for their intended purpose. Also effective January 1, 2021, to facilitate the processing of charitable gifts received by mail, the UofL Foundation established a lockbox with PNC Bankwhois the official bank of the University of Louisville, and also provides banking services to the UofL Foundation. The mailing address for the lockbox is in Chicago, IL, which is the closest PNC Bank regional processing center. The UofL Athletics Association also utilizes a Chicago lockbox, and has for many years, to facilitate the processing and deposit of annual gifts in support of Cardinal Athletics. Sending your check to the lockbox ensures your gift is appropriately and securely received, processed and deposited in the timeliest manner. In addition to providing additional security; the funds are more readily available to the units who need them. We hope this provides a better understanding of why the lockbox was established, and the convenience it provides as a one-stop-shop for charitable gifts sent via mail. Please visit this page for more Frequently Asked Questions on how your gifts are processed. UofL is a state-funded institution. Why does it need private support? Like most public universities, UofL has seen a decline in state support over the years. The majority of the university budget must be made up in other ways-including tax-deductible gifts from alumni and friends. How can I double my gift? A way to maximize your generosity to UofL is through a Matching Gift Program. Some companies will match employee gifts 1:1 or even 5:1. To find out if your company offers this benefit, visit any of our giving forms and click "Find Your Company's Matching Gift Program." From there, you can search for your employer. Where should I mail my check? Checks (payable to University of Louisville Foundation) should be mailed to the following address: University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. PO Box 772050 Chicago, IL 60677-2050 Can I mail my gift to someone at UofL directly? We understand some individuals may be more comfortable sending gifts directly to someone at the university and are happy to help with alternative arrangements. If this is the case, please send your check directly to the Foundation and they will arrange for depositing your gift. Their address is: 215 Central Avenue, Suite 212 Louisville, KY 40208 You may also contact one of our Development staff members to assist you using the University Advancement Staff Directory or send an e-mail to donors@louisville.edu. Is there a way I can verify my giving history? Yes! You can log into our Donor Portal at any time to view your giving history and access endowment performance reports. If I have a question about my gift, who do I contact? You may contact any of the following if you have questions or need additional information about your gift: University Advancement – (502) 852-6588 or donors@louisville.edu UofL Foundation – (502) 852-7300 or ulfadmin@louisville.edu Contact information for specific individuals is available via the University Advancement Staff Directory. I have a question about the performance of my endowment. Who can answer that? The UofL Foundation will be able to assist you. They can be reached at (502) 852-7300 or ulfadmin@louisville.edu I just need to update my contact information. How do I do that? Please send your updated info to aluminfo@louisville.edu or call (502) 852-6588 (even if you aren’t an alum). Why is alumni support so important? Gifts help fund such priorities as scholarships, building renovations, classroom and laboratory upgrades and research opportunities. In addition, publications such as U.S. News and World Report rank universities in part on the percentage of alumni who give back. And many foundations consider alumni giving rates when deciding to support a university. Show your loyalty by making a gift to UofL. Together, we all make a difference! What is the UofL Phonathon? The Phonathon is staffed by friendly UofL students who call alumni and friends to share updates about campus, gain updates from our alumni and friends, and ask them to consider supporting an area of campus they care deeply about. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search