Give to UH Sponsorships UHAA leadership volunteers The Gateway CoogsConnect logo placeholder Ways To Give Gift Planning Endowments Corporate & Foundation Relations Corporate Matching Faculty & Staff Current Students Colleges, Schools & Units Priorities UH Strategic Plan 100 Million Challenge Impact & Recognition News & Events Donor Societies Scholarship Spotlight Publications Contact Give Now Login to AccessUH search form logo placeholder Home » Get Involved GET INVOLVED Whether you serve on a volunteer board, become a member of one of our Donor Societies, join via life membership or engage in student philanthropy, there are many ways to get involved at UH! Every time you give of your time, talent or resources, you increase opportunities for today’s students and tomorrow’s leaders. Donor Societies Donor Societies are one example of how you could be involved with the University. You give to UH for so many reasons. You’re expressing thanks to former mentors. You’re giving back to the institution that gave you your start. You’re increasing opportunities for today’s students and tomorrow’s leaders. You want to change the world. Warm regards, Eloise Dunn Brice Vice Chancellor for University Advancement, University of Houston System Vice President for University Advancement, University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Society Vanguard Society In Tempore Legacy Society Student Philanthropy Student Philanthropy at the University of Houston is a program that gives students a better understanding of the role philanthropy plays at the university. It is intended to educate, engage and excite current Coogs about the importance of supporting UH after we graduate. Our goal is to build a culture of philanthropy on campus so that we may continue to support UH as young alumni and into the future. By educating and engaging current students from freshman to senior year, students will leave UH with a better understanding of the importance and impact of giving back. Learn More Corporate & Foundation Relationships Corporate & Foundation Relations serves University of Houston students, faculty and administration by raising charitable funds from private organizations, including corporations, corporate foundations and private grant-making foundations. To this end, CFR collaborates with UH leadership, deans, faculty and development staff to match and position priority projects with suitable donors. CFR also serves an external constituency role by helping corporations and foundations work with UH more easily. Learn More Volunteer Boards Our volunteers contribute valuable time, talent and treasure to further the mission and programs of the University of Houston. Whatever your passion, there is a way for you to get involved. Volunteer boards serve as a unique way to advance the mission and programs of the University of Houston. Volunteer boards are significant to our university – volunteers contribute their time, talent and treasure to further UH. Learn More UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 PHONE: (713) 743-2255 Advancement Give to uh uhaa leadership volunteers The Gateway Homebase © 2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness