Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Contact Us Office of Stewardship Office of Stewardship Our great university would not exist without you—our donors and graduates. We want to sincerely thank all donors who support the University of Louisville. You play a fundamental role in helping UofL achieve success. The Office of Stewardship celebrates the dedication of our donors and connects them with the University of Louisville, fostering a lifelong relationship. Our Purpose The Office of Stewardship coordinates the ongoing process of recognition and stewardship of University of Louisville supporters and their gifts. View Your Giving Online Did you know your giving and endowment information is updated quarterly and can be viewed at any time on our new Donor Portal? Request an account now to view not only your full giving history, but also (if applicable) your endowment book and market values, gifts to your endowment, and recent expenditures. What We Do We are the donor’s advocates We acknowledge, thank and recognize donors for their gifts We oversee the use of the gifts as designated by donors We provide feedback to donors on the “investments” they have made in UofL We celebrate our donors through special events Donor Stories Are you a donor or a development officer who has a great story to share with UofL? Share your story here. Connect with Office of Stewardship Email: donors@louisville.edu Phone: 502-852-6588 Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search