Give to UH Sponsorships UHAA leadership volunteers The Gateway CoogsConnect logo placeholder Ways To Give Gift Planning Endowments Corporate & Foundation Relations Corporate Matching Faculty & Staff Current Students Colleges, Schools & Units Priorities UH Strategic Plan 100 Million Challenge Impact & Recognition News & Events Donor Societies Scholarship Spotlight Publications Contact Give Now Login to AccessUH search form logo placeholder Home » Where to Give Presidential Priorities UH’s transformation in the past few years is no stroke of luck — under the leadership of President Renu Khator, we’ve gone from underdog to top Cougar. Her vision is unstoppable, but there’s even more work to be done: more health care innovations to be discovered, more world-class facilities to be built, more athletic titles to win, more art to create and more service to perform in our Houston community and beyond. Between our home in the nation’s fourth-largest city and our 14 colleges and schools, we have the tools to make a real change. Are you with us? Learn More Arts Athletics Chairs & Professorships Energy Facilities Graduate Fellowships Health Research & Innovation Scholarships & Student Affairs Our People People are what make this powerhouse go. When you picture UH, picture this: students preparing for meaningful careers. Faculty changing lives in the classroom and lab. Staff members engaging in campus initiatives. Whether we’re raising the roof or raising support for each other in our Houston community and around the world, Coogs care. Show them you have their back. Learn More Faculty & Staff Student Philanthropy Colleges, Schools & Units We’ve got spirit, yes we do – and there are 14 different colleges and schools to get excited about. From philosophy to pharmaceuticals and sculpture to subsea engineering, our students, faculty and researchers are making waves in every corner of campus. What do all our colleges and academic centers have in common? They are UH, and when you support UH, you are supporting a dedication to academic excellence. Learn More Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts C.T. Bauer College of Business College of Education Cullen College of Engineering Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management The Honors College Houston Public Media UH Law Center UH Libraries College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences & Mathematics College of Nursing College of Optometry College of Pharmacy Hobby School of Public Affairs Graduate College of Social Work College of Technology UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 PHONE: (713) 743-2255 Advancement Give to uh uhaa leadership volunteers The Gateway Homebase © 2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness