Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Areas to Support UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions Step 1 Once you click on the link it will take you directly to the HR PeopleSoft Sign-in. Here you will utilize your ULink User ID and Password. Note: You will be prompted for double authentication before being able to proceed. Payroll Deduction Step 2: Select: Main Menu > Self-Service > Payroll and Compensation > Voluntary Deductions The screen shot below will appear. If you currently have a gift deduction, it will show below; otherwise, it will appear blank. Step 3: Click on the Add Deduction button to add the first or an additional gift deduction. 1. Choose “Type of Deduction” from the look-up list. *Required field 2. Enter the requested “Deduction Amount per Pay Period”. *Required field 3. Enter a “Goal Amount” if desired. *Optional field 4. Enter a “Deduction Start Date”. *Required field NOTE: If the Deduction Start Date field is left blank, the system will default the current date as the start date. 5. Enter a “Deduction Stop Date”, if desired. *Optional field NOTE: If the Goal Amount and the Deduction Stop Date are both left blank, the deduction will continue to be withheld from the paycheck until the employee goes back into the self-service and edits the existing deduction by adding a Goal Amount or a Deduction Stop Date. See the screen shot below for a visual example before completion and after completion: Step 4: Click the “Submit” button. You will receive the following confirmation message: Click on the "OK" button to go back to the initial screen. Step 5: The newly added deduction will show as follows: If you are wanting to add more than one deduction, you would just start the process all over again for the next deduction. You will also start here if you want to edit an existing deduction. What if I enter in a Goal Amount less than the amount to be deducted per pay period? If you enter a Goal Amount which is less than the Deduction Amount per Pay Period you will receive the following error message: Can I edit the deduction start date (even if it is in the future)? No. Even if you select the “Edit” button on the summary Voluntary Deductions list, you cannot edit the existing Deduction Start Date (even if it is in the future). What if I leave the deduction start date blank, even though it is required? If the required field “Enter Deduction Start Date” is left blank, the system will automatically save the page using the current date. What if I receive the error message below, what do I need to do? If you receive the following error message, this means that the University is currently processing either a biweekly or monthly payroll. Your deduction cannot be saved. You should wait until the following day to ensure payroll processing is complete and RE-ENTER your deduction. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search