Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Understanding Advancement & the University Foundation The University of Louisville Foundation is an independent 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation that receives, invests and manages charitable funds donated to the University of Louisville. The Office of University Advancement, which is part of the University, works with alumni and friends of UofL to discuss giving opportunities and generate these charitable funds in support of university initiatives, including (but not limited to) scholarships, program support, and capital projects. Effective January 1, 2021, the gift processing unit for charitable gifts to UofL transitioned out of University Advancement and became part of the UofL Foundation. This change enables gifts to be processed and deposited within a single entity as opposed to passing through multiple offices on campus prior to being delivered to the bank for deposit. When someone makes a gift to fund academic needs at UofL, the funds go to the UofL Foundation so the transaction can be recorded, donor records can be updated, and the funds deposited into the bank and be made available to the appropriate UofL unit(s) for their intended purpose. Also, effective January 1, 2021, to facilitate processing of charitable gifts received by mail, the UofL Foundation established a lockbox with PNC Bank, which is the official bank of the University of Louisville and also provides banking services to the UofL Foundation. The mailing address for the lockbox is in Chicago, IL, which is the closest PNC Bank regional processing center. The UofL Athletics Association also utilizes a Chicago lockbox, and has for many years, to facilitate the processing and deposit of annual gifts in support of Cardinal Athletics. Sending your check to the lockbox ensures your gift is appropriately and securely received, processed and deposited in the timeliest manner. In addition to providing additional security; the funds are more readily available to the units who need them. We hope this provides a better understanding of why the lockbox was established, and the convenience it provides as a “one-stop shop” for charitable gifts sent via mail. Please see the Frequently Asked Questions below for more information. Where do I mail my gifts? Checks (payable to University of Louisville Foundation) should be mailed to the following address: University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. PO Box 772050 Chicago, IL 60677-2050 For gifts via credit card, you can make a secure online gift any time at give.louisville.edu. For gifts of securities or stock transfers, instructions can be found here. If you would like to discuss how to leave a lasting legacy to UofL by including the university in your estate plans, please contact Kathy Sides, executive director for estate & gift planning, at (502) 852-5051 or kathryn.sides@louisville.edu. More information is also available at uoflplannedgifts.org. Frequently Asked Questions Below is a list of Frequently Asked Questions. If your question isn’t addressed below, both University Advancement and the UofL Foundation are here to help. Please do not hesitate to contact one of the following: University Advancement – (502) 852-6588 or donors@louisville.edu UofL Foundation – (502) 852-7300 or ulfadmin@louisville.edu Contact information for specific individuals is available via the University Advancement Staff Directory. Why am I mailing my checks to Chicago as opposed to the university? PNC Bank has eight regional processing centers throughout the United States. The processing center servicing the Louisville area is located in Chicago, hence the Chicago mailing address for gifts sent by mail. PNC does not have a processing center in Louisville. The lockbox address ensures all checks are immediately processed and deposited into the bank, which eliminates the need to pass them from office to office once they are received. Won’t the university be able to utilize the funds sooner if they receive them directly? The Chicago location records and deposits funds immediately upon receipt into the UofL Foundation bank account. Checks received on campus must pass through multiple departments before they are then delivered to the bank for deposit, which takes much longer. How will UofL know that my check has been received if it’s in Chicago? PNC scans and downloads all lockbox transactions the day they are received and transmits electronic copies of all checks (and any other written communication received with the check) to the UofL Foundation the following business day. Will there be a delay in acknowledging the receipt of my gift? Once gift transactions have been recorded by the UofL Foundation, the biographical processing team in University Advancement updates donor accounts, while the Office of Stewardship, also a part of University Advancement, issues acknowledgment letters according to their current process, which will not change. What if I need to send a note directly to someone in the Development Office with my check? Any written communication included with your check will be scanned and electronically transmitted to gift processing the following day, so this information can then be forwarded to the development office. Alternatively, you may reach our office directly by calling (502) 852-6588, e-mailing donors@louisville.edu, or visiting the University Advancement Staff Directory. I am not comfortable sending money to Chicago and would rather send a check directly to UofL. Is that an option? We understand some individuals may be more comfortable sending gifts directly to someone at the university and are happy to help with alternative arrangements. If this is the case, please send your check directly to the Foundation and they will arrange for depositing your gift. Their address is: 215 Central Avenue, Suite 212 Louisville, KY 40208 You may also contact one of our Development staff members to assist you by using the University Advancement Staff Directory or sending an e-mail to donors@louisville.edu. Is there a way I can verify my giving history? Yes! You can log into our Donor Portal at any time to view your giving history and access endowment performance reports. If I have a question about my gift, who do I contact? You may contact any of the following if you have questions or need additional information about your gift: University Advancement – (502) 852-6588 or donors@louisville.edu UofL Foundation – (502) 852-7300 or ulfadmin@louisville.edu Contact information for specific individuals is available via the University Advancement Staff Directory. I have a question about the performance of my endowment. Who can answer that? The UofL Foundation will be able to assist you. They can be reached at (502) 852-7300 or ulfadmin@louisville.edu I have a question about Athletics giving. Who do I contact? Please visit the Cardinal Athletic Fund website at cardinalathleticfund.com. I just need to update my contact information. How do I do that? Please send your updated info to aluminfo@louisville.edu or call (502) 852-6588 (even if you aren’t an alum). Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search