Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu Home Colleges, Units & Programs If a degree program, tradition, or student organization made a significant impact on you or a loved one, a gift to that entity is a way to show appreciation and ensure it continues to grow and thrive. Colleges, Departments & Majors Many alumni have a strong affinity for the academic program from which they graduated. A number of funds are available for each college, department, majors, and centers to choose how to direct your gift. Even capstone courses like Davis College's MILE and the Rawls College of Business's Sales & Customer Relationship Strategy Competition have funds available for gifts of any amount. What are Funds for Excellence? Each college and many fields of study have a Fund for Excellence. These are current-use funds, which are meant for immediate use. The dean or chair uses these funds at their discretion for the greatest needs of their area. These uses could include but are not limited to funding for new student programs, costs associated with recruiting new faculty members, or items that do not yet have a line-item budget. Non-Academic Units Texas Tech houses a number of units independent of academic colleges and departments that engage those inside and outside the university. From the National Ranching Heritage Center and the Museum of Texas Tech to the Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, these entities provide quality programming and activities that contribute to the culture of the university and community. Programs & Student Involvement Students involved in campus activities enjoy higher GPAs, retention rates, and graduation rates than their peers. Support for these programs is often supplemented by outside businesses and individuals, which lowers the financial barrier to entry for students who wish to represent Texas Tech from local to national levels. These programs include competitive teams like chess and Davis College judging teams, the Masked Rider and Raider Red, study abroad, and even the Goin' Band from Raiderland, the oldest student organization on campus. Capital Projects Capital projects, or physical structures, offers a variety of ways to support through a gift. From something as large as a building to a smaller item like a classroom, tree, or bench, the opportunities can be found within every unit and make a significant impact. Capital projects draw quality faculty, staff, and students through top-notch facilities and grounds for research, learning, and living. Even the trees and enhanced landscaping and hardscaping found from the Broadway Seal to the statue of Will Rogers were made possible by a donor. By contributing to a capital project, you help Texas Tech achieve all three of its strategic priorities through educating a diverse student body, enabling innovative research and creative activities, and transforming lives through engaged scholarship. Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact