Search funds Find Funds Westward Schools Campus Areas Causes Why Give CONNECT WITH US 310.794.2345 gifts@support.ucla.edu Schools Anderson School of Management David Geffen School of Medicine Fielding School of Public Health Graduate School of Education & Information Studies Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science Herb Alpert School of Music Luskin School of Public Affairs School of Dentistry School of Law School of Nursing School of the Arts and Architecture School of Theater, Film and Television The College Campus Areas Athletics Campuswide Support Centers and Institutes Graduate Programs Grand Challenges Health Sciences Libraries Museums Scholarships Student Affairs UCLA Alumni UCLA Extension Causes Arts Athletics Business Community Environment Faculty Support Global Impact Health Humanities Law Research Sciences Student Support Technology Learn how your philanthropy can make a difference at Menu Give To UCLA Find Funds Westward Schools Campus Areas Causes Why Give Search Contact Us Give Now College and Professional Schools Anderson School of Management David Geffen School of Medicine Fielding School of Public Health Graduate School of Education & Information Studies Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science Herb Alpert School of Music Luskin School of Public Affairs School of Dentistry School of Law School of Nursing School of the Arts and Architecture School of Theater, Film and Television The College Campus Areas Athletics Campuswide Support Centers and Institutes Graduate Programs Grand Challenges Health Sciences Libraries Museums Scholarships Student Affairs UCLA Alumni UCLA Extension Arts Athletics Business Community Environment Faculty Support Global Impact Health Humanities Law Research Sciences Student Support Technology Search Funds... Clear Support a safe return for all Bruins Your generosity helps secure the essential needs of our students, faculty and staff—this year more than ever. Give Now Learn More Additional ways to support UCLA Explore projects led by students, faculty, staff, and alumni. Undergraduate Research Week 2022112 donors200 donor goalUndergraduate research is more important now than ever. Join us by supporting scholarships and diversity in research.4 days left Support the UCLA Latino Alumni Association Scholarship58% raised$25,000 goalGive a gift today to support Latino/Latina Bruins on their UCLA journey.9 days left UCLA Samueli Senior Class Campaign38% raised$6,000 goalThe Class of 2022 invites you to join them in making a difference on future Bruin Engineers through scholarship support.17 days left UCLA Anderson Class of 2022 Gift67 donors200 donor goalPlease join the UCLA Anderson Class of 2022 in supporting the future business leaders through the Riordan MBA Fellows.10 days left UCLA Cricket 202271% raised$6,000 goalSupport UCLA cricket in our quest to become the 2022-2023 champions of the National College Cricket Association.1 days left UCLA Sailing Team: Help Us Stay Afloat With New Boats70% raised$20,000 goalSupport the UCLA Sailing Team in our goal to purchase two new boats. Your donations will help us build upon our success and take our team to the next level!8 days left UCLA Equestrian: Bridling Up Bruins58% raised$7,000 goalHelp the UCLA Equestrian Team host our annual show and show support for this group of passionate riders!8 days left Advocating Intersectional Medicine (AIM)7% raised$3,000 goalAIM works to educate future healthcare providers on intersectionality in medicine. Your gift will help us provide educational materials, supplies, and more!8 days left Yummy Bowl Benefit249 donors125 donor goalFight Student Hunger with a Yummy Bowl. Purchase a ceramic bowl to provide free food for any UCLA student who may be experiencing hunger.Project Funded! Support the Legacies of Al Osborne & Bill Cockrum0% raised$0 goalSenior Associate Dean Osborne and Adjunct Professor Cockrum are retiring on June 30 after decades of service to UCLA Anderson. Honor their legacies with a gift!50 days left Explore More Projects WHAT MATTERS MOST TO YOU? Arts Athletics Business Community Environment Faculty Support Global Impact Health Humanities Law Research Sciences Student Support Technology Giving To What Matters UCLA Alzheimer's Disease Center I give so Alzheimer's will be a memory before my mother loses hers. DONORS GIVE NOW Chancellor’s Greatest Needs Fund UCLA...one of the best universities in the world. DONORS GIVE NOW The TFT Fund I donate because I believe in the Arts and what UCLA stands for. DONORS GIVE NOW Broad Stem Cell Annual Fund The work they are doing truly inspires me and it's great to be able to support them. DONORS GIVE NOW Need-based Scholarships Attending UCLA was one of my best life experiences. I want the same for future Bruins as well! DONORS GIVE NOW Broad Stem Cell Annual Fund I give to unlock the power of healing for future generations. DONORS GIVE NOW UCLA Anderson Alumni Initiatives UCLA is an amazing platform to change your life and make your dreams a reality. DONORS GIVE NOW Sustainable LA Grand Challenge Climate Change is the biggest issue facing humanity, and Los Angeles is the best place to find a solution. DONORS GIVE NOW The Anderson School Dean's Fund Giving is great. Giving to Anderson is awesome! DONORS GIVE NOW Division of Digestive Diseases The hospital at UCLA was there for me in my time of need. DONORS GIVE NOW Hammer Museum Hammer Museum puts on great shows & events for free all the time. I'd love to contribute! DONORS GIVE NOW Friends of Jazz at UCLA Jack Kerouac has always been a huge influence in my life. I loved his writing on the jazz movement. DONORS GIVE NOW Why Give? Supporting UCLA is one of the best investments you can make. Every gift, no matter what the size, contributes to a circle of support. The cumulative impact of giving goes beyond the borders of the campus, into the local community and out into the world. Learn Why FAQ Still have questions? Check out our FAQ for assistance. View The FAQ Contact Us Can't find the fund you're looking for or have other questions? gifts@support.ucla.edu (310) 794-2345 Contact Details More Ways To Give Annuities, Direct Gifts Bequests, Planned Giving Gifts By Mail Giving from Abroad Securities and Wires Learn More UCLA.edu UCLA Development UCLA Foundation Privacy Policy Donor Disclosures Accessibility © 2022 Regents of the University of California