Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights A Community of Care Responding to COVID-19 As we continue to deliver on our teaching and research mission in the midst of the current health crisis, you can contribute to our community of care to support students impacted by COVID-19 and to provide much-needed testing, personal protective equipment, and research to help drive the city, commonwealth and national response and intervention. Make a Gift COVID-19 Research Infectious disease researchers at UofL are working with all 10 Louisville hospitals and two in southern Indiana to process tests and study the illness and gather information needed to prevent transmission of COVID-19. Because this virus is so new, health professionals are learning daily about how the disease presents initially and how it progresses. They are continually gaining a better understanding of how the virus is spread and improving the testing process. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Personal Protective Equipment is defensive clothing, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to protect health care workers from injury or exposure to infection while treating COVID-19 patients. UofL Health Personal Protective Equipment Fund: Due to the increasing cases of COVID-19, UofL Health staff anticipate an increased need for PPE items. The UofL Health Personal Protective Equipment Fund will be used to purchase the necessary equipment. Make a Gift. Speed School of Engineering AMIST Lab COVID-19 Projects Fund: The Speed Engineering Advanced Manufacturing lab's instructors and students have quickly responded and are now making specific PPE items to provide to health care facilities. The Speed School AMIST Lab COVID-19 Projects Fund will be used to purchase materials necessary to continue producing PPE items. Student Emergency Fund We are particularly concerned for our most vulnerable students who are impacted in unexpected ways. As a result of closures and restrictions, many of our students are now unemployed or their work hours have been significantly reduced. For many students requesting assistance, their greatest concerns are for basic needs such as rent, utilities, groceries or moving expenses. Staff Help Assistance Relief Effort (SHARE) The SHARE Program (Staff Help Assistance Relief Effort) provides financial assistance to University of Louisville staff who are unable to meet immediate, essential expenses due to a temporary financial hardshipthat resulted from an emergency situation. You can make a one-time or recurring credit card gift through this site. UofL Staff may also make a contribution to the SHARE Program by payroll deduction, send an email to the UofL Payroll Service Account (payroll@exchange.louisville.edu). Make a Gift Now is the time to come together as a community of care, the first of our Cardinal principles. By supporting these activities, you will join a global community of alumni, donors and friends united against this unique challenge. If you have questions regarding these funds or wish to speak with someone about how you can support these or other philanthropic efforts surrounding COVID-19, please contact Jasmine Farrier, vice president of Advancement at 502-852-6924 or by email at j.farrier@louisville.edu. If you know students who are in need, please encourage them to apply for emergency funds. COVID-19 News UofL conducting clinical trial on drug for severe COVID-19 respiratory effects UofL breakthrough technology shows promise fighting novel coronavirus Engineering alumnus coordinating with Speed School for mass production of face shields UofL researchers addressing urgent need for knowledge about COVID-19 Trager Institute launches virtual information session on COVID-19 and the disease it causes UofL engineering students producing 3-D printed face shields for healthcare professionals UofL increases capacity for processing coronavirus test results UofL's nationally networked lab enables researchers to safely study coronavirus UofL students mobilize food delivery to senior citizens during COVID-19 outbreak More News Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search