Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Support with a Gift Ways to Give Estate & Gift Planning Leave a Legacy. Through the Office of Estate and Gift Planning, UofL alumni and friends can explore gifts that may also provide a life income stream, help minimize taxes, and generate an immediate charitable gift and/or estate tax deduction. Join us in creating your Cardinal legacy today. Give by IRA If you are 70 ½ or older, you can give up to $100,000 per year from your IRA directly to the University of Louisville without having to pay income taxes on the money. You may also designate the University of Louisville as the beneficiary of all or a percentage of your IRA, and it will pass to us tax-free after your lifetime. Give by Donor Advised Fund Already have a charitable account and ready to make a gift? We make it easy to recommend a grant to the University of Louisville through your donor-advised fund. Give by Wills and Living Trusts In as little as one sentence, you can designate a percentage or amount to the University of Louisville through your will or trust. Have you already made the decision? Please let us know so we can acknowledge your gift, ensure it is designated to the program or area of your choice, and welcome you to UofL’s Conn Legacy Society! Arrange a stock transfer. We are grateful for your support of the University of Louisville. Before directing a transfer agent to transfer a stock gift, please see a few important details below. Stock Transfers We’re Here to Help Unsure what to do next or considering multiple options? There are many ways you can make a planned gift. Visit uoflplannedgifts.org or contact us to learn more and to explore various options. We look forward to helping you with this important decision! Kathryn Sides Executive Director for Estate & Gift Planning 502-852-5051 kathryn.sides@louisville.edu Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search