Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu Home Scholarships & Student Support One of the most impactful ways to attract and retain high quality students to Texas Tech University is through a scholarship. Scholarships provide a way to assist deserving students, whether through providing financial assistance to those who demonstrate need or by rewarding prospective and current students for merit-based excellence in and out of the classroom. Scholarship criteria may include grades, membership in a student organization, and major among other selections. Scholarships leave a lasting legacy or can even recognize someone who made a significant impact on your life. Giving to Existing Scholarship Funds Texas Tech University offers more than 4,000 scholarships to its students, and a number of donors choose to give to one of these existing scholarship funds. It provides a simple path to donate with the flexibility to give any amount at any time by check, over the phone, or online or to give in honor of an individual or entity. Donors search for various scholarship funds by name online. Give Online Now>> Gifts can also be made to each college’s general scholarship fund. Need help finding a fund to fit your your priorities as a donor? Call 806.742.2211. What are General Scholarship Funds? Texas Tech University and each of its colleges have a general scholarship fund. These general scholarship funds allow the university and colleges to distribute scholarship funds as they see fit for need or merit. Creating an Endowed Scholarship Endowments are permanent funds of at least $25,000 that generate payouts to fund scholarships, professorships, or other purposes specified by the donor who establishes them. Donors enjoy the ability to name the endowment and set awarding criteria. About Endowments>> What are Presidential Endowed Scholarships? The Presidential Endowed Scholarship is the most prestigious merit-based scholarship at Texas Tech. It is automatically awarded to freshmen who meet two criteria: Graduate in the top 10% of their high school class, and Earn a 1400 SAT or 32 ACT score. Presidential Endowed Scholars receive a scholarship award of $6,000 annually for up to five years of study so long as they earn a GPA of at least 3.25 and earn at least 30 hours per year at Texas Tech. Presidential Endowed Scholarships require a minimum payment of $150,000, which can be donated at once or over three consecutive years, to meet the distribution amount. It also offers scholarship naming rights to the donor. Creating a Current-Use Scholarship To create a scholarship that provides the ability to set criteria and the name but does not require an endowment, choose a current-use scholarship. With a current-use scholarship, the amount of money put in is the direct amount recipients receive. Donors choose the selection criteria, amount, and duration of the scholarship. Most current-use scholarship donors choose to continue their scholarship for at least three years to continue benefitting the initial recipients. Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact