Give to UH Sponsorships UHAA leadership volunteers The Gateway CoogsConnect logo placeholder Ways To Give Gift Planning Endowments Corporate & Foundation Relations Corporate Matching Faculty & Staff Current Students Colleges, Schools & Units Priorities UH Strategic Plan 100 Million Challenge Impact & Recognition News & Events Donor Societies Scholarship Spotlight Publications Contact Give Now Login to AccessUH search form logo placeholder Home » Why Give Opportunity defines a UH education. Lives change dramatically here. Careers take shape. Students fulfill their potential. Your success story may have started here, too. When you invest in UH, you enable opportunity to take root and thrive. It grows first for our students, who bring a special grit and determination to their studies, and next for our schools, colleges, faculty, and region. This is an exciting time for UH, as we continue to transform 21st century teaching and learning, secure our place among the nation’s great urban research universities, raise new structures and rise in the rankings. We are graduating more talented classes of University of Houston professionals, capable and determined to make an impact in their communities and around the globe. Your Gift’s Impact Your generous support helps sustain the University’s founding mission of accessibility and educational excellence, ensuring UH’s bold future. We encourage you to give to the areas that are most meaningful to you. Did You Know? Your investment in UH fuels, builds and transforms our institution and the city of Houston. Your gift can… We must ensure that every driven student who is eligible for a scholarship receives one. Provide Scholarships Endowed chairs and professorships help ensure a high quality research environment. Attract the Best Faculty A strong commitment to Athletics helps our student-athletes to excel both on and off the court and field. Maintain a Top Athletics Program Our facilities must be comparable, if not superior, to anything prospective students will see on recruiting trips to other schools. Build New Facilities Our study-abroad students reap the benefits of a transformative education and contribute to a diverse, global workforce. Fund Study Abroad Programs Providing health care to underserved communities is a priority for UH, as is bolstering local businesses and rooting the economy. Create a Healthy Houston YOUR GIFTS MAKE THE DIFFERENCE Our top priority is student success, and you fuel this momentum with your support. Give now UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 PHONE: (713) 743-2255 Advancement Give to uh uhaa leadership volunteers The Gateway Homebase © 2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness