Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Areas to Support Scholarship Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives It is an ongoing priority to provide fair and equitable access to the university by sustaining and expanding scholarship programs for students. To do this, we need your help to fund scholarship initiatives. Make a Gift Merit-Based Scholarships General merit-based scholarships are awarded to students based on certain academic performance or other demonstrated talents or contributions. Need-Based Scholarships General need-based scholarships are awarded to students with a demonstrated financial need and serve to alleviate the financial burdens of attaining their degree. Martin Luther King Scholarships This mentored scholar program includes a scholarship, which is awarded annually to ten African American or Latino high school graduates from Kentucky or Southern Indiana. MLK Scholars participate in a program designed to develop critical thinking skills, engage in self exploration, and establish an appreciation for civic engagement. Woodford Porter Scholarships The scholarship was created in 1984 to award students who meet the academic requirements and exhibit a strong aspiration to succeed and give back to the community. It was named after the former trustee, the late Woodford R. Porter. Mr. Porter was known for his dedication to strong advocacy for education in Jefferson County. He famously said "education is the great equalizer," as he believed it to be the ultimate path towards self and collective improvement. In 1986, the Woodford R. Porter Scholarship Society was created to provide support and encouragement for students awarded the scholarship. Vogt Scholarships The Henry Vogt Scholarship, formerly the Hallmark Scholars Program, was established in 2011 by Henry Heuser, an adopted alumnus of UofL, and re-named in 2013 in honor of the late Henry Vogt, founder of the Henry Vogt Machine Co. The Henry Vogt Scholarship recognizes the academic and extracurricular accomplishments of the best and brightest students from across the Commonwealth and Southern Indiana. Students selected for the Henry Vogt Scholarship are awarded full tuition and a partial stipend for room and board. The standard of achievement set by the Vogt Scholars attracts more outstanding students to the University and raises the value of a UofL degree. Alumni Student Scholarships Alumni student scholarships support undergraduate and graduate students along with internships and graduate assistantships that provide professional work experience for the student and further the goals and programs of the Louisville Alumni office. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search