Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu Home Donor Stories Pursuing Excellence (VIDEO) Gordon and Joyce Davis choose Texas Tech agriculture college for a $44 million gift – the largest in Texas Tech University history. Narsis Sailale has Big Dreams The soon-to-be mechanical engineering and honors graduate reflects on his memories at Texas Tech. Paul and Iris Horton Give Smarter to Support Today’s Students For Paul and Iris Horton, smart giving is about making an impact. Outfitting The Greatest Band in the Land Join the J.T. and Margaret Talkington College of Visual and Performing Arts and the Office of the President in providing the next generation of Goin’ Band from Raiderland uniforms! Residence Halls Association and Texas Tech host the 63rd annual Carol of Lights Carol of Lights welcomes the holiday season each year on campus. Give to the students who make Texas Tech shine by donating to the RHA scholarship fund! John Sellers Is Giving Back in Honor of the Professor Who Inspired His Success Alumnus Names $1 Million Scholarship Endowment After Economics Professor Rashid B. Al-Hmoud. Moving the Needle An emergency fund created by Jim (Class of ’93) and Cecilia (’94) Edwards provides immediate impact—and relief—for students. Texas Tech Credit Union to Fund Raider Red Statue The longtime supporter of the Raider Red program will create a lasting tribute to the national champion Texas Tech mascot. Alumnus, Former Regent Establishes Scholarships for Texas Tech University at Waco Students Waco businessman and civic leader Carey Hobbs hopes to expand access to higher education through financial aid opportunities. New Engineering Multipurpose Classroom Revealed The state-of-the-art Evelyn M. Knox Davies Multipurpose Classroom in Texas Tech’s Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering opened thanks to a generous donation. Museum of Texas Tech University Announces Addition of Dr. Robert Neff and Louise Willson Arnold Wing A groundbreaking ceremony today (June 11) launched the construction project. School of Veterinary Medicine Receives Major Gift from Bank of America The $350,000 donation is the largest regional commitment by the bank and will contribute to facility costs and program support. From Master's to Mascot Jacey Ross had two criteria for choosing a university: a quality engineering program, and the chance to be a college mascot. She found both at Texas Tech, but cost stood in the way for the Kenai, Alaska, native. Because of generous scholarships, Jacey was able to not just attend Texas Tech but travel the country serving the university as Raider Red. Contributions from Jerry S. Rawls Fund Undergraduate Teaching Initiatives The programs in the Jerry S. Rawls College of Business and Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering will reward outstanding teaching in undergraduate classrooms thanks to his latest philanthropic gift. University Announces Public-Private Partnership with Premier Oilfield Group Texas Tech University and Premier Oilfield Group today (April 8) announced the formation of a public-private partnership significantly enhancing geoscience research, exploration and innovation across the Permian Basin region. Charles Schwab Foundation Establishes Scholarship in Personal Financial Planning Texas Tech is one of seven university partners receiving a share of $3.5 million. Texas Tech Upholds Its Tradition of Excellence in Banking and Finance Rawls College of Business has established the E.W. & J. David Williams Institute for Community Banking & Finance and launched the renamed F. Scott Dueser Chair for Excellence in Banking. Endowed Scholarship for Design Students Established by Award-Winning Alumnus The Scott and Amy Dadich Endowed Scholarship in Design Communications will support students who further the inclusion, diversity and equity initiatives of the Texas Tech School of Art. Excellence in Banking Endowment Named in Honor of F. Scott Dueser Dueser’s efforts helped the program surpass its initial fundraising goal in only nine months. Texas Tech Unveils Renovations to Historic Dairy Barn The renovations were part of a $3.5 million fundraising effort to reestablish the facility as a functional, collaborative educational space. Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact