Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Areas to Support Diversity Initiatives Diversity Initiatives The university prides itself on the academic achievements accomplished by all of its students. The Diversity and Equity units on campus help to foster an inclusive, accessible, and diverse university through a broad array of programs, services, and events. However, these respective offices do not do their work alone. Locally, nationally, and globally, friends and allies contribute to the success of these initiatives. You have the power to change lives by helping to strengthen and sustain an inclusive Cardinal community. You can contribute to a variety of funds to support your passion for progress. We encourage you to select an area highlighted below to learn more about the giving opportunities most meaningful to you. Each of us can take an intentional step today to be better and to do more. Thank you for your support of one of our core Cardinal Principles with your investment in diversity and inclusion. Cultural Center LGBT Center Muhammad Ali Institute for Peace & Justice Office of Diversity & Equity - Belknap Office of Diversity & Inclusion - HSC Women's Center Breonna Taylor Memorial Scholarship Diversity Education & Inclusive Excellence Additional Diversity Initiatives Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search