Page Top Give login Help Site Search Search Content: University of Louisville Alumni Home Connect Chapters & Councils Chapters Councils Young Alumni Series #LouisvilleLoudspeakers SOAR SOAR Mentoring Form Mentor Interest Form UofL Bucket List SOAR About Us Louisville Municipal College Alumni Account Log-In My Profile Find Alumni UofL ﻿News Weekly Roundup Events Event Calendar University of Louisville Alumni Awards Previous Years' Alumni Award Winners 2022 Black Alumni Summit Services UofL Email Forwarding UofL Career Center Travel Transcript Request Shop Online Store Rings, Regalia, Diploma Frames Hex Head Art Support UofL About Contact Us Board of Directors UofL Traditions Our Brand Partners Privacy Policy Home Events Event Calendar McConnell Chao Archives Reception << Back Header Content The University of Louisville cordially invites you to the U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell and Secretary Elaine L. Chao Archives Reception on June 23, 2022 at the Ekstrom Library located on the Belknap campus. The evening begins at 5:30 PM with drinks and hors d’oeuvres as well as the opportunity to tour the McConnell Chao Archives. A brief program will begin at 6:30 PM with Interim President Lori Stewart Gonzalez and McConnell Center Director, Gary Gregg. The program will discuss the exciting expansion planned for the McConnell Chao Archives. The Archives will include all the historical documents, papers, and material collected over Senator McConnell’s nearly 40- year career of national and international service in the U.S. Senate, including the last 16 years as Majority and Minority Leader of the Senate. The McConnell Chao Archives will serve as a permanent teaching and research reservoir for scholars, historians, and the public for future generations. After more than four decades of service to Kentucky, this historic collection of McConnell’s career is best served by being located in his hometown and at his alma mater where it can be preserved and used as part of the McConnell Center’s mission of civic education. We hope you will be able to attend the U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell and Secretary Elaine L. Chao Archives Reception on June 23 to learn more about the upcoming expansion. NOTE: Space is limited. Senator McConnell and Secretary Chao will not be attendance. The McConnell Center is not affiliated with any political party and works hard to maintain its outstanding reputation for nonpartisan educational opportunities. Contact Information Primary Contact Sherry Allen 502-852-3130 s.allen@louisville.edu Date & Location Date: 6/23/2022 Time: 5:30 PM to 7:30 PM Location: University of Louisville Ekstrom Library - Lower Level 2301 S. Third Street Louisville, KY 40292 Parking Information: All guests are encouraged to park in the Speed Art Museum Parking Garage located at 2317 S. Second Street, Louisville, KY 40208. Parking will be validated for all guests who park in this garage. Please bring your parking ticket with you to the event to receive your parking validation voucher. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn flickr University of Louisville Alumni 200 E. Brandeis Avenue, Louisville, KY 40208 Email: alumni@louisville.edu Phone: 502-852-6186 Fax: 502-852-6920 Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Connect Chapters & Councils Chapters Councils Young Alumni Series #LouisvilleLoudspeakers SOAR SOAR Mentoring Form Mentor Interest Form UofL Bucket List SOAR About Us Louisville Municipal College Alumni Account Log-In My Profile Find Alumni UofL ﻿News Weekly Roundup Events Event Calendar University of Louisville Alumni Awards Previous Years' Alumni Award Winners 2022 Black Alumni Summit Services UofL Email Forwarding UofL Career Center Travel Transcript Request Shop Online Store Rings, Regalia, Diploma Frames Hex Head Art Support UofL About Contact Us Board of Directors UofL Traditions Our Brand Partners Privacy Policy Give login Help Site Search