Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu View Content « Back Paul and Iris Horton Give Smarter to Support Today’s Students For Paul and Iris Horton, smart giving is about making an impact. After years of supporting Texas Tech, the Houston couple knew they wanted to give back in an even bigger way. The question was how to do so most efficiently. Paul, a 1972 Rawls College of Business alumnus, was familiar with different ways of giving from his career in money management. First as president and managing director of Lighthouse Capital Management and now as owner and president of First Light Interests, he made a career helping others navigate the financial landscape that included accomplishing their philanthropic goals. For Paul and Iris, the goal was clear. "We wanted to give young people the chance to be special,” Paul explained. “Our goal is to give them the opportunity to build something that has never been built, create things that have never been created, exchange ideas, and hone their gifts.” Their passion for education led them first to establish the Paul and Iris Horton Endowed Scholarship at the Jerry S. Rawls College of Business in 2014 and then designate Texas Tech as the beneficiary of an individual retirement account (IRA) in 2018. Fast forward three years, Paul and Iris were looking for new ways to give back. As the couple considered their personal situation and financial assets, the answer became clear: a qualified charitable distribution (QCD). Paul and Iris made their first QCD to Texas Tech in 2021 and haven’t looked back since. According to Paul, QCDs are simply "a more efficient, smarter way to give.” Qualified Charitable Distribution A QCD is a giving vehicle that allows individuals aged 70½ or older to donate directly to non-profits from their IRA. According to Byron Kennedy, Vice President for Advancement at Texas Tech University, QCDs offer unique tax advantages. “Gifts made through a QCD donate pre-tax dollars,” he shared. “The earned income is never taxed because it goes directly from the IRA administrator to the non-profit.” Amounts distributed as QCDs can be counted toward satisfying the donor’s required minimum distributions (RMDs) of IRAs. As a result, donors may avoid being pushed into higher income tax brackets and prevent phaseouts of other tax deductions. In 2021, eligible individuals are able to satisfy up to $100,000 of their RMD for the year through QCDs. Married couples can each give $100,000 through their individual IRAs for a total of $200,000. While QCDs are excluded from donors’ taxable income, this is not the case for regular withdrawals from an IRA, even if the money is used to make a charitable contribution later on. If donors take a withdrawal, the funds are counted as taxable income even if they later offset that income with a charitable deduction. “These benefits can make QCDs a great option for donors who are looking for ways to make a difference at Texas Tech,” said Kennedy. Impacting Texas Tech Today In addition to tax advantages, QCDs allow donors to see the impact of their philanthropy for themselves. While other smart giving vehicles, such as bequests and IRA designations, begin to generate impact after a donor’s passing, QCDs distribute philanthropic dollars during their lifetime. Being able to witness the impact of one’s giving can be an added benefit for donors. As Paul explained, “I’m able to continue to manage the funds in the IRA, knowing we are going to leave it to Texas Tech, but the QCD allows us to make an impact on students now. Beyond tax advantages, we’re able to feel our impact today and know that an IRA designation to Texas Tech will expand it even more after we’re gone.” For nonprofit organizations like Texas Tech, QCDs provide funds critical to meeting present-day needs of the University community. Gifts can support a range of areas, from financial aid to faculty support, research, student life and more. In the case of Paul and Iris Horton, donating through QCDs means supporting current business students. “Education is a big piece of our giving story,” said Paul. “Rawls College set me on my path, and we’re grateful to be able to share a portion of our blessings with deserving students to help give them the tools they need to build a successful life.” “I am so grateful for the support of the Paul & Iris Horton Endowed Scholarship and feel truly blessed with this opportunity,” said Jad Zeitouni, an accounting senior in the Rawls College and recipient of the Paul & Iris Horton Endowed Scholarship. “This scholarship helps me advance and enhance my college education. My future goal is to earn an MBA while becoming a physician. The Paul & Iris Horton Endowed Scholarship will help me tremendously in reaching these goals.” Reflecting on his giving experience, Paul said, “This giving vehicle chose us. It’s one of the easiest and most gratifying ways of helping others. QCDs are our preferred vehicle to leverage the gifts we can give to Texas Tech.” Supporting Texas Tech If you would like more information on QCDs and smart giving vehicles, please contact the Office of Advancement at 806.742.2211 or ofc.advancement@ttu.edu today. Consult your tax advisor to see if a QCD is right for you. Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact