Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights Home Support with a Gift Ways to Give Ways to Make a Difference Your support is crucial to our work as a premier metropolitan research university. Your gifts support scholarships, research, scientific discoveries and creative endeavors that cannot be funded by state and tuition support alone. Give by credit card online. Make a Gift Give by mail. University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. PO Box 772050 Chicago, IL 60677-2050 Checks payable to the University of Louisville Foundation. In the memo, include the gift allocation (e.g. A specific school/college, scholarship etc.). Give by phone. 502-212-8206 Arrange a stock transfer. We are grateful for your support of the University of Louisville. Before directing a transfer agent to transfer a stock gift, please see a few important details below. Stock Transfers Make a planned gift. Planned gifts provide benefits including income, an avoidance of capital gains tax and immediate income tax deduction. Some planned gifts such as bequests, provide estate tax savings. To speak with someone about a planned gift, contact Kathryn Sides at 502-852-5051 or kathryn.sides@louisville.edu. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search