Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights ULSD to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky's philanthropic giving << Back The oral health care crisis in Kentucky continues as fewer and fewer Kentuckians have access to quality, preventive dental care and treatments. The problem is compacted by an increasing number of individuals who need care, coupled with a decreasing number of providers across the state. Delta Dental recognizes this issue, and through its charitable arm, the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation, has committed to providing funding to the University of Louisville School of Dentistry and other educational institutions and nonprofits across the state. These funds will directly benefit programs that serve underserved populations throughout the Commonwealth. “Building a network of strong community partners like UofL is a priority for the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation,” Delta Dental of Kentucky CEO Jude Thompson said. “Through this network and others, we are able to provide more services to at-risk, underserved and uninsured individuals within every county of our great state.” The grant to the UofL School of Dentistry will provide an array of services and education opportunities for dental students and their surrounding communities. UofL School of Dentistry The Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation’s contribution to the UofL School of Dentistry provides funding to support both capital projects and patient care programs. To date, the Foundation has provided more than $400,000 dollars to support initiatives of this kind. Dental faculty and students will take part in Delta Dental’s Mobile Dental Unit which provides services on wheels to underserved communities throughout the state. These faculty and students will staff at least six dental clinics throughout 2022 which are aimed at serving more than 15 patients each day. Additionally, Delta Dental’s multi-year gift will support UofL’s services schedule with the Home of the Innocents practice, Kosair Charities Center clinic, Brown Cancer Center dental oncology practice, Shelbyville UofL Dental practice and Paducah UofL Dental practice to provide much-needed services to patients who are in dire need of treatment and reconstructive oral health care. In Shelbyville and Paducah, the gift helps fund clinics that will provide a full range of general dentistry services to people who have not had access to affordable care and are unable to travel to Louisville for such care. “The multi-year partnership with Delta Dental will touch the lives of so many Kentuckians who otherwise might not have access to affordable, high-quality dental care,” Interim Dean of the UofL School of Dentistry Dr. Margaret Hill said. “From Paducah to Shelbyville to Louisville and in between, we are committed to doing the most we can to train, educate and serve both our students and our communities about the importance of oral health. Delta Dental’s support allows us to do just that.” In addition to support of the UofL School of Dentistry, the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation provides grants and funding to hundreds of other Kentucky-based 501c3 non-profit organizations. Since 2015, more than $20 million has been donated, which reaffirms the Foundation’s commitment to support programs and services that improve the oral health and quality of life for citizens across the Commonwealth. To learn more about Delta Dental of Kentucky and the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation, please visit KY.deltadental.com or follow us on Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. About Delta Dental® of Kentucky: Delta Dental of Kentucky is committed to bright smiles and healthy lifestyles for its 700,000 enrollees and the communities we serve. Delta Dental of Kentucky is part of a family of companies that collectively are among the largest, most experienced dental plan administrators in the nation. Our network of providers gives our customers access to high-quality, affordable dental care. Additionally, DeltaVision provides the largest network of vision providers with more than 5,000 retail chain locations nationwide, providing vision plans with extensive benefits that combine two best-in-class carriers. Together, Delta Dental of Kentucky and DeltaVision work to streamline benefit administration for current and future clients. Delta Dental of Kentucky’s Foundation promises to serve our communities and residents one smile at a time. Aimed with the task of promoting oral health to the citizens of Kentucky, the philanthropic corporate giving supports many non-profit partners. Giving back is a core component of our culture at Delta Dental, and our Foundation enables this support to be given to organizations that champion a better quality of life for citizens throughout our Commonwealth. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search