Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu Home Endowments What are Endowments? Endowments are permanent funds that generate distributions to fund scholarships, professorships, fellowships, programs, or other purposes specified by the donors who establish them. Endowments offer donors the opportunity to name the fund and create a lasting legacy. Once an endowment is established, anyone may contribute to the fund. Often, family and friends make tribute gifts because they believe in the cause or program the endowment supports. Funding an Endowment Donations come in many forms and are not limited to cash. Examples of gifts are listed below. Donors are encouraged to seek guidance from financial advisors or tax accountants to maximize philanthropic impact. Cash Stocks, bonds, and securities Bequests from wills and trusts Real estate Commodities Royalty payments Retirement accounts Donor-advised funds Other assets and property such as artwork or historical artifacts The Endowment Process A donor makes a charitable gift to the Texas Tech Foundation of at least $25,000. This is the endowment principal. Donors may pledge this up to five years. The gift is invested in the $1.3 billion Texas Tech University System’s long-term investment fund. A 0.7% annual fee supports management of the funds. Every year, the fund distributes 4.5%. These earnings become the spendable income of the endowment and are awarded according to the donor’s wishes specified in the endowment agreement, e.g., scholarships or research expenditures. Endowment Principal Estimated Annual Distribution† $25,000‡ $1,125 $100,000 $4,500 $250,000 $11,250 $500,000 $22,000 $1 million $45,000 † Based on 4.5% spendable rate approved by Board of Regents. ‡ Minimum required amount. Can be pledged over five consecutive years. Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact