Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights More News Thursday, March 17, 2022 ULSD to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky's philanthropic giving Delta Dental of Kentucky will provide oral health care services and education to hundreds across the Commonwealth through its contributions to UofL Tuesday, July 13, 2021 Designing women encourage others through new UofL scholarship Seven young women who graduated from UofL with fine arts degrees lost no time in generously designing a way to help others like them. Wednesday, May 26, 2021 Yum! Brands, Inc., UofL announce launch of Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence to create globally scalable program to educate and support entrepreneurs and advance franchising industry. Thursday, April 22, 2021 Toyota investing $1.7 million to help diversify engineering workforce One of the world’s largest automakers is teaming up with the University of Louisville and two other institutions of higher education in Kentucky to help change the face of engineering. UofL’s Cardinal Success Program finds its own success in transition to telehealth format As the director of the Cardinal Success Program, and professor in the Department of Counseling and Human Development, Patrick Pössel coordinates and facilitates the placement of master’s students in counseling psychology settings within the West Louisville community UofL and Commonwealth Credit Union Partner to Combat Food Insecurity UofL and Commonwealth Credit Union have made a commitment to fight food insecurity by renovating the Cardinal Cupboard. Wednesday, April 21, 2021 Now accepting Alumni Awards nominations If you know an outstanding graduate who deserves to be recognized for their career accomplishments, philanthropic endeavors, and/or contributions to their community, please nominate them for the 2021 University of Louisville Alumni Awards. Nomination deadline: Friday, May 7 Thursday, April 15, 2021 UofL receives $8.6 million for COVID-19 wastewater research The University of Louisville has received $8.6 million from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to back research that could help health departments use wastewater to monitor the rate of COVID-19 infection. Monday, February 01, 2021 John Burton Harter legacy continues through LGBTQ+ scholarship The John Burton Harter Foundation committed $50,000 to create the John Burton Harter Endowed Scholarship within the UofL LGBT Center. Wednesday, January 27, 2021 Messer Construction Co. commits $100,000 in honor of the class of 2020 Messer Construction Co. has committed $100,000 to transform the outdoor quad on UofL's Belknap Campus into a permanent gathering spot in honor of the class of 2020. Friday, January 15, 2021 Illuminating a global impact through history As the Jewish Heritage Fund for Excellence Endowed Chair in Judaic Studies, Ranen Omer-Sherman has provided numerous students, and the entire community, the opportunity to explore Judaic culture and heritage. The Co-Immunity Project: A Battle We Can Win – Together The groundbreaking Co-Immunity Project, a multi-phase scientific research study aimed at understanding how COVID-19 moves through populations, is a large and ambitious program only made possible by philanthropic support. A foundation for their future Because of the generous gift from Carl Pollard, the Carl F. Pollard Scholarship attracts first-generation Kentucky college students who otherwise may not have the financial means to pursue higher education. Thursday, December 17, 2020 Former Card Donovan Mitchell gives back to alma mater with exclusive adidas ‘Shoe for Change’ Former Cardinal Donovan Mitchell has teamed up with adidas and his alma mater to support current and future Black students at UofL through "A Shoe for Change." Wednesday, November 18, 2020 Dr. Jasmine Farrier Joins Judge Derwin Webb’s Podcast On November 15, Dr. Jasmine Farrier appeared as a guest on Judge Derwin Webb’s podcast to discuss the current state of UofL. Tuesday, November 10, 2020 Donor Spotlight: Tom Dunbar For Tom Dunbar, fighting cancer is a battle he has vowed to win. To help this fight, the Louisville resident pledged $1 million to the UofL James Graham Brown Cancer Center. Thursday, October 29, 2020 Raise Some L Has Record-Setting Year The University of Louisville’s annual day of giving, Raise Some L, shattered last year’s total. Tuesday, October 27, 2020 2020 Gold Standard of Optimal Aging honorees recognized with virtual tribute UofL and Kentucky leaders participated in a celebration of the 2020 Gold Standard of Optimal Aging hosted by the UofL Trager Institute. Wednesday, September 23, 2020 Staff Spotlight: Brittany Key We sat down with Brittany Key, Development Officer for the College of Business, to learn more about what brought her to UofL and how she makes an impact at the University. Friday, September 18, 2020 UofL recognized as top school for Black students pursuing a criminal justice degree The University of Louisville provides Black students pursing a criminal justice degree one of the “most enriching educations leading to well-paying jobs.” This is according to the “2020 College Guide and Rankings” report issued recently from the nonprofit, Washington Monthly. Tuesday, August 25, 2020 UofL Welcomes Students Back to Campus for Fall Semester Despite the challenges from the coronavirus pandemic, UofL sees an increase in the incoming freshman class. Thursday, July 30, 2020 Cardinal Conversations: Racism as a public health issue On July 29, the University of Louisville School of Public Health & Information Sciences hosted an insider's discussion to discuss racism as a public health issue. Wednesday, July 22, 2020 Farrier appointed UofL Vice President for Advancement Beginning August 1, well-known and respected political science scholar Jasmine Farrier will serve as vice president for University Advancement at the University of Louisville. UofL technology that may inhibit pathway for cancer gets commercial partner Researchers say the technology could solve “one of the holy grails” of cancer treatment. Thursday, July 16, 2020 UofL conducting clinical trial on drug for severe COVID-19 respiratory effects The University of Louisville is conducting a clinical trial on a new treatment for critically ill COVID-19 patients meant to lessen some of the most severe and deadly respiratory effects. Thursday, June 25, 2020 President Neeli Bendapudi shares Co-Immunity Project highlights On August 12, President Neeli Bendapudi hosted Dr. Aruni Bhatnagar and Dr. Ted Smith to share Co-Immunity Project highlights and plans moving forward. Friday, May 29, 2020 Thank you for supporting our students Olivia’s study abroad program shut down. Morgan lost her job. Shadi no longer had the income to care for his family. Emily wasn't able to take her board exam. But because of your support, our students will achieve their goals and become graduates of our beloved University. Tuesday, March 17, 2020 Help ensure students receive critical support Approximately 40% of our students are PELL Grant eligible, which demonstrates their underlying need for support. Now is the time to come together as a community of care, the first of our Cardinal principles. Monday, March 02, 2020 Staff Spotlight: Lee Ann Riffle We sat down with Lee Ann Riffle, Alumni & Annual Giving's unit business manager intermediate, to learn more about what brought her to UofL and how she makes an impact at the University. McMasters advocates for more immunotherapy research Dr. Kelly McMasters, chair of the Department of Surgery at UofL, shifted from doctor to caregiver for his son, Owen McMasters, when he was diagnosed with leukemia in 2011. Tuesday, February 25, 2020 Speed Alum helps develop future engineers Larry Combs '97 established the Brown-Forman Engineering Academy and the Brown-Forman Inspire Summer Enrichment Program to introduce students to engineering. Thursday, January 30, 2020 Bus trip builds Cardinal pipeline Ernest Brooks has built a steady and strong pipeline of Cardinals from his hometown by providing them with an annual bus trip to spend the day at the University of Louisville. Wednesday, January 29, 2020 Staff Spotlight: Kara Salsman, School of Music We sat down with Kara Salsman, School of Music's director of development, to learn more about what brought her to UofL and how she makes an impact at the School of Music. Friday, December 13, 2019 Climbing Capitol Hill Molly Baldock is one of three political science students who participated in internships in Washington D.C. that were funded by the generosity of alumni supporters. Destroying cancer, one cell at a time In a state with the highest cancer incidence and mortality rates in the nation, Dr. William Tse and his colleagues and biotech industrial collaborators are working to make Kentucky ground zero for a cancer cure. Hands-on experience, big-world difference Whether conducting research in the rain forests of South America or teaching biology courses, Professor Steve Yanoviak displays passion for his work, his students and a strong eagerness to learn. Monday, November 25, 2019 Humphrey Philosophy Colloquium Provides Nationwide Impact For 19 years, the Steven Humphrey Undergraduate Philosophy Colloquium has brought students together from all across the nation. Now it's being used as a model at other universities. Wednesday, October 30, 2019 Inspired by his student experience, chemistry alumnus renovates lab Tilford Riehl ’67, ’70 created an endowment for the renovation and maintenance of a new teaching lab in UofL’s chemistry department. Tuesday, October 29, 2019 Dedicated Cardinal's legacy continues through scholarship fund The Kellie R. McGuffin Memorial Scholarship fund was established in memory of the late Kellie McGuffin to provide financial assistance to students to honor her service, leadership, and dedication to UofL. Tuesday, September 24, 2019 Social Work recognizes Champions for Care On September 13, President Bendapudi and Dean Jenkins honored community partners, alumni, and donors of the Kent School of Social Work during their first Champions for Change breakfast. Law alumni promote service with scholarship Calling themselves the B90, a group of Louisville Law alumni has created a scholarship for law students who might not be in the top 10 percent of their class but who are deeply engaged in service projects and the law school community. Monday, August 26, 2019 Criminal Justice Alumnus Serves as UofL New England Ambassador Pocock’s time at SPI left such a lasting impression that it prompted the New England native to become an ambassador for UofL in his home area. McKnight Family Honors Sister with Scholarship After Kimberly McKnight died in 2007, her family wanted to do something to honor her by assisting students with the same circumstances and determination she had during her time at the University of Louisville. Investing in the School of Medicine Class of 2023 During the 2019 White Coat Ceremony on July 28, medical students were joined by family, friends, faculty and members of the medical community as they took the first step in their medical career. Tuesday, July 30, 2019 Rocket team places top 10 The University of Louisville’s River City Rocketry intramural team took ninth overall out of 121 teams in the 2019 Spaceport America Cup international competition, held in June in New Mexico. Thursday, June 27, 2019 The Gheens Foundation: An enduring relationship, campus-wide impact The University of Louisville and the Gheens Foundation take an important step forward, together. Wednesday, June 26, 2019 Alumni send students to Washington D.C. Meet Lydia, Molly, and Celia, three political science students currently participating in internships in Washington D.C. that are funded by the generosity of the Political Science Alumni Council. Wednesday, June 19, 2019 Gift from Lord family furthers research capabilities in physics and astronomy Sam Lord has a love for physics, technology, and the faculty and students of the Department of Physics and Astronomy. Recently, Lord combined these passions to make transformational gifts to the department. Thursday, February 07, 2019 Young alumna dedicated to helping Cardinals graduate Incoming students are encouraged to get involved on campus as much as they can. Brittany Chouhan ’17 took that advice to heart. Putting a face with a name Family legacy connects UofL student, donor. “The Porter Scholarship has given me the opportunity to explore my identity as an African American female." Friday, July 28, 2017 UofL Autism Center's Camp Discovery The UofL Autism Center hosted its annual Camp Discovery, supported by the Woman’s Club of Louisville! This weeklong camp helps children with autism spectrum disorder discover new friends through fun, educational, and therapeutic activities and typical peers. Monday, June 05, 2017 UofL honors David Novak and family In recognition of their outstanding support to the University of Louisville Department of Pediatrics, the University honored David Novak, his family and the Lift-A-Life Foundation on July 20 by naming its new pediatrics medical building the Novak Center for Children’s Health. Support the Center and learn more at NovakCenter.com. Tuesday, December 20, 2016 Meet Alexsis Her experience at UofL made her into a better leader and listener. As a scholarship recipient, Alexsis receives support from donors like you that makes her education possible. Alexis is a junior communications major, ROTC Cadet, AVIATOR, Woodford R. Porter Scholar, and homecoming court finalist in 2016. Thursday, December 01, 2016 Robert Elliott, 95DMD Robert Elliott, 95DMD, is a proud UofL graduate and Louisville native, who completed additional training in pediatric dentistry at UNC School of Dentistry. In 2001, Dr. Elliott graciously decided to create The Robert David Elliott Award in Pediatric Dentistry to help UofL students going through their residency while earning their certificate in Pediatric Dentistry. Monday, November 07, 2016 UofL’s Alumnus of the Year The Wilson Wyatt Alumni Awards Ceremony, established in 1983 to recognize graduates who have distinguished themselves in their chosen fields and are exemplary ambassadors for the university. This year’s winners have impacted countless lives and communities around the world, for example, Ernie Allen 68A, 72L. Read the story and watch event videos. Thursday, October 13, 2016 One Day. One Challenge. We had ONE DAY to come together to stand with our students, faculty, and staff, and accomplish goals for over 22 projects around campus. We did it! Thank you! Thursday, August 18, 2016 Denny Crum Scholarship Fund at UofL The Denny Crum Scholarship Fund at UofL awards scholarships to individuals who have demonstrated leadership, community service, and academic achievement. Learn more. Monday, July 18, 2016 Norton Healthcare Grant to Pediatric Research Norton Healthcare has granted $1.25 million to UofL in support of research related to six pediatric sub-specialties. Read the full article on UofLNews.com. Tuesday, June 07, 2016 Donor Spotlight: Monique Ingram Monique Ingram, staff member in the School of Public Health and Information Sciences, helped establish the SPHIS African American Scholarship Fund. Learn more and support UofL. Thursday, April 21, 2016 UofL Exceeds 100 Fulbright Winners The University of Louisville has passed another milestone. With 13 Fulbright scholar winners so far this year, UofL has named over 100 Fulbright awardees since 2003 and is close to meeting/exceeding its all-time record of 14 in a single year. Monday, March 07, 2016 Stethoscopes for Students "Stethoscopes for Students" program allows UofL School of Medicine Alumni, Faculty, and Staff to purchase a stethoscope for an incoming medical student, to be presented at the White Coat Ceremony. When the student opens the stethoscope box, they will find a card with the donors name and contact information. Read more about the stethoscope program on the School of Medicine's webpage. Wednesday, February 24, 2016 Donors and Dancers For the Kids raiseRED is the only student-run organization that supports the clinical and medical research efforts at UofL. The year-long fundraising campaign culminates in an 18-hour dance marathon on campus. Last year’s event raised over $226,000. Monday, February 22, 2016 The Legacy and Impact of Steven Vanover Steven D. Vanover, 12S, 13GS, received his bachelor’s and master’s degree from UofL’s J.B. Speed School of Engineering. Months after his graduation, Steven was diagnosed with a rare form of cancer. He battled sarcoma for nearly 15 months, and after facing numerous infections and setbacks, passed away in March 2015. Learn more about Steven's story and how to support a scholarship fund in his name. Monday, February 08, 2016 Donors and Dancers For the Kids raiseRED is the only student-run organization that supports the clinical and medical research efforts at UofL. The year-long fundraising campaign culminates in an 18-hour dance marathon on campus. Last year’s event raised over $226,000. Tuesday, January 19, 2016 Cardinal Couples Glenn Whitfield, 88E, 89GE, and Mary Lou (Holtgrave) Whitfield, 90A, met on Belknap campus at a football tailgate as sophomores, married right after graduation, and have been together ever since. We are honored that the Whitfield’s love for each other, and the Cardinals, is still going strong! Read more Cardinal Couple stories Wednesday, December 16, 2015 UofL Bioengineers Develop Bionic Hand University of Louisville's bioengineering department designed and built a bionic hand for six-year-old Lucas Abraham. He received three different models to fit his hand. Friday, December 04, 2015 Support of Pediatrics Specialists with University of Louisville Physicians have announced they performed a surgery to separate 7-week-old conjoined twin girls on Nov. 11 at Kosair Children’s Hospital. Read the story online, learn about the UofL for Kids Campaign, and support UofL's medical departments. Wednesday, September 30, 2015 The Gift of Sight Carol Martin, VP of Korrect Optical Inc., made a gift that had a direct impact on our local community by giving the gift of sight to 288 people. Monday, June 30, 2014 $10 million gift from J.D. Nichols one of largest ever to university Louisville businessman J.D. Nichols, chairman of local real estate development firm NTS Corp., is making a $10 million gift to the University of Louisville – one of the largest awards the university has ever received. Friday, May 16, 2014 UofL receives $5.5 million grant from Helmsley Charitable Trust Noting the significant progress in drug and vaccine development over the past three years, the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust has provided a three-year, $5.5 million grant to the James Graham Brown Cancer Center. Wednesday, March 05, 2014 UofL students raise $150,000 for pediatric cancer raiseRED: The Swain Student Activities Center hosted an 18-hour dance party this past weekend to raise money for pediatric cancer. Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search