skip to main content Close Menu San Diego State University Philanthropy Disability Services Campus Directory Information for… Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Search Home Why Give Impact Our Focus Recognition Your Team How to Give Campanile Fdn. Donate San Diego State University Philanthropy Menu Impact-Driven Philanthropy Happens Here For decades, generous contributions have helped SDSU open doors for students to follow their dreams while having an experience of a lifetime. Impact-driven philanthropy grants a passport for students to explore learning and unlock their potential as they prepare for lifelong successful careers. WHY GIVE Modest Contribution, Major Impact Regardless of amount, any gift is a powerful endorsement. At SDSU tens of thousands of small donations have collectively funded programs that can be sustained over a long period of time. Imagine your gift directly impacting lifelong student success. A small amount matters. Change Agents Unlocking Potential Every gift to SDSU has impact. Generous donor support opens doors to opportunities, inspires excellence, ignites discovery and delivers promise to students by making an education possible. Donors are changing lives. Your charitable gift will empower students to finish what they set out to do. Great Institution With The Best Minds Endowed chairs and professorships are rewarding. Funding supports the recruitment of internationally recognized faculty who will have a transformational impact on students, build excellence throughout SDSU and grow nationally-ranked programs. These legacy gifts send a message of commitment to academic excellence. Expressing Passion and Interest Convey your personal passion or your company's mission with a gift to SDSU. There is satisfaction in supporting an important cause and the excitement of seeing your gift lead to tangible benefits. The impact you or your company make, can be transformational and your investment ensures a meaningful return. Achieving Long-Term Prestige The naming of a college, department or program provides one of the ultimate vehicles for assuring long-term program excellence. Endowments of such magnitude enable programs to sustain national stature. A naming gift to SDSU is a vote of confidence in our vision and helps us maximize our potential. A Lasting Legacy Thousands of SDSU students have benefitted from legacy giving brought about by a planned gift. A gift in your will, trust or estate plan ensures a consistent, long-term source of funding for campus-wide academic programs and initiatives. Envision your legacy with an impactful gift through planned giving. University Relations and Development 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182-8030 619-594-2586 Fax: 619-594-6409 A-Z Index Campus Directory Maps Parking Employment Media Relations Give to SDSU WebPortal General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Requires SDSUid indicates links which require an SDSUid. Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Feedback Document Reader Last Updated 9/22/20