Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu View Content « Back Narsis Sailale has Big Dreams Dec. 13, 2021 The soon-to-be mechanical engineering and honors graduate reflects on his memories at Texas Tech. Late nights at the library and frequent visits to the Mechanical Engineering building. For Narsis Sailale, these spots on Texas Tech campus are the marks of a meaningful college experience—one made possible by scholarships. Texas Tech traditions run deep, and for Narsis, one of his top memories is attending Carol of Lights with dinner at the McKenzie-Merket Alumni Center before the event. Carol of Lights is an event that brings together everyone across campus—and the city of Lubbock—as Texas Tech kicks off the holiday season. Alongside campus traditions, it is no surprise that one of his favorite moments at Texas Tech was attending a basketball game to be part of the pride and excitement of the fans and students. From faculty to staff, key people helped shape the Red Raider experience for Narsis as he adjusted to college life and set his priorities for the future. He credits his Texas Tech mentor, Dr. Feruzan Williams as one individual who gave him the greatest impact in finding balance in everything he attempts. Narsis relied upon the assistance of staff in the Honors College to help guide his coursework plans alongside his future ambitions. He specifically credits Lori Lightfoot with helping him prioritize goals to focus his energy on attaining short-term goals that align with long-term goals. Each of these individuals at Texas Tech have played an important role in helping Narsis make plans to achieve his dreams. He hopes to become either a material specialist or sales engineer right after graduating. Someday he would like to focus on entrepreneurship in various areas like real estate or the restaurant industry. Narsis will graduate this December 2021 with a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering and a minor in mathematics with Honors from the Honors College. He will finish his master’s degree the following December and hopes to pursue a STEM MBA. Narsis will forever be thankful for Texas Tech and the donors who did not know him, but supported his education through scholarships. He hopes to one day provide opportunities in the same way to help others achieve their academic goals at Texas Tech. Narsis’ education was made possible by the following scholarships he achieved as a Red Raider: 2019-2020 TTESA Scholarship Texas Tech Alumni Association (TTAA) spring scholarship TTU Chevron Texaco EN scholarship TTU Celebrating Diversity Scholarship TTU TTPA Scholarship 2020-2021 TTU TTESA Scholarship TTU Miscellaneous Scholarship TTU Honors Endowed Scholarship TTU TSPE EN Scholarship TTU General University Designated Transfer Scholarship TTU Conoco CPCEED Engineering Scholarship TTU TTAA Dallas QuEnd Scholarship TTU Flores Family Engineer Scholarship 2021-2022 TTU TTESA Scholarship TTU TTAA Preston Smith Scholarship awarded by the Honors College TTU Traditions Scholarship TTU Baker Hughes Scholarship TTU Misc. Fall Scholarship Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact