Search Content: Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact Give Now Menu Home Tribute Gifts A tribute gift offers a way to honor someone, whether in celebration of a special occasion or milestone, to express sympathy in their passing, or to thank them for their impact. How to Make a Tribute Gift Give online, indicating the individual's name in the form when requested Give Now Online >> Call 806.742.2211, making sure to mention you wish to give in honor of the individual and providing their name Mail a gift by check, making the check payable to the Texas Tech Foundation, Inc., include the individual's name and/or the name of the fund to direct the gift in the memo line, and sending to: Texas Tech University System Financial Services Box 45025 Lubbock, TX 79409-5025 What Will the Gift Support? A tribute gift can be directed to any fund of your choosing while honoring the individual. Some donors choose to give to a fund or area meaningful to the honoree. Sometimes there might already be a fund established in the honoree's name, which can be found using the search function in the online giving form. Funds may also be recommended by the honoree or their family. Creating a Fund for an Honoree A number of alumni and friends create funds in recognition of an impactful individual. Funds have honored professors, parents, friends, children, and more. These may take the form of endowments or current-use funds and can support scholarships, professorships, programs, or capital projects like naming benches, rooms, and beyond. Contact us to learn more >> How to Recommend Gifts be Made to a Fund as a Tribute In lieu of gifts or flowers for a celebration or memorial service, some families instead ask for gifts to be made to Texas Tech or a certain fund in honor of an individual. Any of the contact information above may be included. For additional assistance, contact the Office of Advancement. Contact Us >> Office of Advancement Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Address Administration Building 213, MS 42010, Lubbock, TX 79409-2010 Phone 806.742.2211 Email ofc.advancement@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Facebook Twitter Tiktok YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Request © 2021 Texas Tech University Mobile Menu Close Search Content: Your Passion Scholarships & Student Support Colleges, Units & Programs Faculty Support & Research President's Priorities Athletics Your Gift Ways to Give Now Endowments Tribute Gifts Estate Planning Matching Gifts Foundation & Corporation Giving Your Impact Donor Stories Hire Red Raiders Alumni & Donor Events Contact