Page Top Search Content: For Alumni Give Now Site Search Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights A Community of Care UofL is supporting students impacted by COVID-19 and providing much-needed testing and research. or Areas to Support Choose an area that means the most to you, and invest in your values. More Info Ways to Connect Connect with our staff and tell us about your interests. We would love to connect you to an area to make an impact. Contact Us The Porter Scholarship has given me the opportunity to explore my identity as an African American female and has allowed me to meet so many different people on campus. Keionna Bailey, Class of 2020 I’m not sure I can put into words how grateful I am. Interning in Washington DC has always been my dream but the financial commitment would be onerous on any college student...I am extremely thankful for the donors’ generosity in giving me this opportunity...Thank you, thank you, thank you! Molly, Class of 2020 My senior year physiology course with Dr. Fell had one of the biggest impacts on me. This class opened up my mind to the intricacies of physiology and what makes us tick on a cellular and organ level. It was one of my first big steps to understanding medicine. Taylor, Class of 2018 Featured News & Stories ULSD to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky's philanthropic giving Delta Dental of Kentucky will provide oral health care services and education to hundreds across the Commonwealth through its contributions to UofL Yum! Brands, Inc., UofL announce launch of Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence to create globally scalable program to educate and support entrepreneurs and advance franchising industry. UofL and Commonwealth Credit Union Partner to Combat Food Insecurity UofL and Commonwealth Credit Union have made a commitment to fight food insecurity by renovating the Cardinal Cupboard. More News Check out Ways to Give Choose one of these ways to make a gift to the University of Louisville. Credit Card By Phone By Mail Stock Transfer Planned Giving The Latest Upcoming Events 09 Jun June 9, 2022: ULARP Annual Business Meeting & Luncheon Location: University Club and Alumni Center Time: 11:30 AM to 1:00 PM 23 Jun June 23, 2022: McConnell Chao Archives Reception Location: University of Louisville Time: 5:30 PM to 7:30 PM 15 Aug August 15, 2022: 2022 Brandeis School of Law Golf Scramble Location: UofL Golf Club Time: 12:00 PM More Events Facebook Twitter YouTube Linkedin flickr Instagram University of Louisville UofL Office of Advancement 2323 S. Brook St. Louisville, KY 40292 Email: donors@louisville.edu Telephone: 502-852-6588 Loading... Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Go Areas to Support Schools and Colleges Health Sciences Center Campus Initiatives Scholarship Initiatives Cards next, Cards forever Diversity Initiatives Alumni Initiatives Faculty and Staff Giving UofL Cares How-To for Self-Service Payroll Gift Deductions FAQs - Giving Through Payroll Deduction Co-Immunity Project Estate & Gift Planning Support with a Gift Ways to Give Contact Us Contact Us FAQs Foundation Questions Office of Stewardship Digital Endowment Impact Reports Endowment Policies & Definitions Donor Portal Donor Bill of Rights For Alumni Give Now Site Search