Give to FSU FSU Foundation Toggle Dropdown Florida State University FSU Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters Women for FSU FSU’s Great Give is Live 4,500 donors in 24 hours—Join Us! Give to Florida State University Featured Funds Colleges and Units Search Funds Every gift makes an impact. Choose from the funds below or select the above tabs to find where your passion lies Featured Funds Experiential Learning Greatest Needs Fund (F08785) This fund provides support for experiential learning opportunities, including internships, research, international study and more. Add to Gift Cart This fund is in your gift cart. Finish your donation CARE Academic Support (F06490) Your gift will support the overall enhancement and continued development of CARE and its participants. Add to Gift Cart This fund is in your gift cart. Finish your donation Honors and Scholars Program (F06491) Your gift will support the overall enhancement and development of the University Honors Program. Add to Gift Cart This fund is in your gift cart. Finish your donation Vice President for Faculty Development & Advancement General Fund (F07075) Your gift will support the Office of the Vice President for the overall development and advancement of faculty. Add to Gift Cart This fund is in your gift cart. Finish your donation Colleges and Units College of Arts and Sciences College of Business College of Communication and Information College of Criminology and Criminal Justice College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Health and Human Sciences College of Law College of Medicine College of Motion Picture Arts College of Music College of Nursing College of Social Sciences and Public Policy College of Social Work Dedman College of Hospitality Division of Undergraduate Studies FAMU-FSU College of Engineering Florida State University Schools FSU Panama City Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship Opening Nights Student Affairs Student Foundation Student Veterans Center The Graduate School The John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art University Libraries Enter your criteria below or view the funds available with each college and unit by selecting the drop-down tab. Search Funds Fund Name or Keyword and/or Fund Number Fund numbers begin with a letter that is followed by 5 numbers. and/or College or Unit Academic Affairs Academic Programs Alumni Association College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Communication & Information College of Criminology College of Education College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Human Sciences College of Law College of Medicine College of Motion Picture Arts College of Music College of Nursing College of Social Sciences and Public Policy College of Social Work Dedman School of Hospitality Finance and Administration Foundation Operations Foundation Other Interdisciplinary Studies Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship Panama City Campus President's Office Research Student Affairs The Graduate School The Institute for Science and Public Affairs The Ringling Undergraduate Studies University Advancement University Libraries University Relations Reset Filters Search Search Results Search Results Gift Cart Summary 0 Fund(s) in Gift Cart $0.00 Total Gift Amount Update Gift Cart Complete Donation Update Gift Cart Cancel Save and Add More Save and Checkout Update Gift Cart$0.00 FSU Foundation Questions? Contact: Department of Annual Giving (850) 644-2822 annualgiving@foundation.fsu.edu The safety and security of your gift are of utmost importance to our organization. To help offset credit card merchant fees, and as a safeguard to possible fraudulent activities, the FSU Foundation has a $5 minimum for online donations. Share This Page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301 (850) 644-6000 US Privacy Policy | EU Privacy Policy | State Non-Profit Disclosures | Technical Support