Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can law students support asylum seekers? Just Societies Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Immigration detention is at a historic all-time high in the US; about 400,000 immigrants cycle through the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement system each year. Most detainees face the deportation process alone without a right to counsel in their proceedings. The Immigrants’ Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School fills this void by offering detainees legal help. Students and faculty at the Clinic work with some of the most vulnerable people stuck in a complicated legal system. Rebecca Urquiola ’17LAW and Hannah Weichbrodt ’17LAW recently secured asylum for a mother and daughter from Honduras. They represented the mother in court, helped her write an affidavit, and connected her to medical and mental health services. “There's not a day that goes by that I'm not thankful for the ability to have helped her and for her to have helped us to become better lawyers and better advocates,” said Urquiola. Immigrants at the Clinic are typically fleeing persecution and poverty in search of a better life in the US. “We help people walk through all of the steps of their journey,” said Weichbrodt. Support this Program Learn More Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University