Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Special Groups/The Hill Society The Hill Society Be a leader and contribute to Syracuse University’s foundation and future. Join The Hill Society. The Hill Society is a dedicated network of leadership annual donors who share a common goal of supporting Syracuse University’s highest priorities. As a member, you will receive updates on how your contributions directly impact students and faculty, along with the latest news about the areas of the University you love most. Exclusive regional and on-campus events allow members to engage with each other and University leadership, creating connections and opportunities to work together to advance Syracuse University’s mission and shape its future. Membership starts with an annual gift of $2,500 to the Syracuse University Annual Fund, General Supported Scholarship Fund, any dean’s discretionary fund, or a qualifying campus-wide program fund. The Hill Society Membership Gift Levels CHANCELLOR’S CIRCLE $25,000+ VICE CHANCELLOR’S CIRCLE $10,000–$24,999 SCHOLAR $5,000–$9,999 MEMBER $2,500–$4,999 Generation Orange Gift Levels (for recent graduates) Year 0–4: $250 Year 5–8: $500 Year 9–10: $1,000+ Additional information about The Hill Society and a list of funds that qualify for membership can be found in our FAQ section below. To learn more or to make a gift to one or more eligible funds, please contact us at 315.443.1848 or thehillsociety@syr.edu. Accordion Section Do I have to renew my membership in the Hill Society every year? Yes, it will be renewed each year when you make your annual gift (minimum of $2,500) to any of the current use funds that are included in the Fund for Syracuse. Which funds count towards my membership in The Hill Society? GENERAL FUNDS Annual Fund General Scholarship SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES School of Architecture dean’s fund | scholarship fund College of Arts and Sciences dean’s fund | scholarship fund School of Education dean’s fund | scholarship fund College of Engineering and Computer Science dean’s fund | scholarship fund David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics dean’s fund | scholarship fund School of Information Studies (iSchool) dean’s fund | scholarship fund College of Law annual fund | scholarship fund Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs dean’s fund | scholarship fund S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications dean’s fund | scholarship fund College of Visual and Performing Arts dean’s fund | scholarship fund Martin J. Whitman School of Management dean’s fund | scholarship fund University College dean’s fund | scholarship fund ADDITIONAL AREAS TO SUPPORT Alumni Engagement ’Cuse Athletics Opportunity Fund General Athletic Scholarship Black and Hispanic Undergraduate Scholarship Hendricks Chapel Syracuse University Libraries Remembrance Scholarship Endowment Fund Renée Crown University Honors Program Student Experience Fund Syracuse Abroad Syracuse University Art Museum Veteran Legacy Fund Veteran Legacy Scholarship Fund You can also visit our general giving page and search through all available funds. Do I need to increase my gift each year to stay in The Hill Society? No, as long as the gift meets the requirements of $2,500 to one of the Funds for Syracuse. What are the benefits of becoming a member of The Hill Society? The Hill Society provides an inclusive network with exclusive access: Each member will receive a welcome packet with specially branded The Hill Society materials. Exclusive invitations to The Hill Society events located in their geographic region Quarterly e-newsletter Opportunities to network with other The Hill Society members throughout the year. What is the Fund for Syracuse? Annual dollars provided through The Fund for Syracuse are flexible and immediately available, enabling the chancellor, deans, and other division heads to funnel those dollars wherever they are most urgently needed. Tuition and fees account for only a portion of Syracuse University’s annual budget. Annual contributions to The Fund for Syracuse are crucial, creating an essential bridge between tuition revenues and the actual cost of a Syracuse University education. The Fund for Syracuse is actually a collection of many current-use funds. The Fund for Syracuse includes: The Annual Fund General Scholarship Fund Director/Dean’s Funds for each school, college, and unit A variety of specialty funds for current use purposes Gifts to the “Fund for Syracuse” are counted within our fiscal calendar of July 1 – June 30. How are contributions to the Fund for Syracuse used? The Fund for Syracuse affords individuals a great deal of flexibility, as donors may choose from a wide range of annual giving designations, which align with their personal interests and connections with the University. This includes options for making gifts to each college, school, and unit on campus. For those individuals that want the University to decide how best to put their gifts to use, unrestricted contributions may be made to Annual Fund. All of these gifts have something in common: They are spent each year (which is different than an endowment gift). They represent a flexible and essential source of funds and an investment in the leaders of the university, schools, colleges, and units to make strategic investments. They are essential to the operation of the University. The majority of the budget provided to the University's thirteen colleges and schools are in the form of fixed costs. Annual giving contributions provide an invaluable source of flexible funding that reflects your priorities as a donor, as well as the greatest needs and highest priorities of the University. Why does your annual gift matter? Year after year, gifts to the Fund for Syracuse make possible scholarships, and once-in-a-lifetime opportunities for students. Annual gifts help Syracuse University provide state-of-the-art laboratories and equipment, and support learning experiences, including study abroad, immersion trips, and student competitions. Whatever the size of your gift, your support strengthens Syracuse. It is also a vote of confidence. Universities that have a broad base of alumni support do better in college rankings. In This Section The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top