Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Giving to Notre Dame Priorities Giving Societies Ways to Give Watch Stories Contact Give Now Home Contact Search Menu Priorities Students come to Notre Dame to receive an unparalleled education and collegiate experience that wouldn't be possible without your help. Priorities Students come to Notre Dame to receive an unparalleled education and collegiate experience that wouldn't be possible without your help. Gifts to the University may be directed toward any number of our immediate priorities—to benefit students who are in need of financial assistance, to provide fellowships for graduate students, to offset the tuition costs for veterans, or any other cause listed below. The needs are great, but so too, is our determination. Notre Dame invites you to be a part of something greater. By giving the gift of Notre Dame, you can make students’ dreams a reality, students who will be forces for good in a world desperately in need. Not sure where to give? A gift to the Notre Dame Fund provides the University with the flexible funds needed to address critical and emerging needs, such as financial aid for students in need. Make your gift to the Notre Dame Fund today › Our Priorities Student Emergency Relief Fund Gifts to the Student Emergency Relief Fund directly benefit those students whose financial status has been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Academics Making a gift to academics at Notre Dame strengthens our world-class Catholic education and empowers the University’s professors, students, research, and initiatives to make the world a better place. Areas of Greatest Need Your gift to Notre Dame's areas of greatest need ensures the University we love can strengthen critical priorities and respond confidently to new challenges and opportunities. Athletics Notre Dame is home to one of the most recognizable athletic departments in the world, fielding 26 varsity teams. Catholic Mission & Service Notre Dame's Catholic character informs everything that Notre Dame is. Your gift to mission and service strengthens the University as a place where faith and reason coexist, an enlightening force for a world deeply in need. Fighting Irish Initiative The Fighting Irish Initiative ensures a Notre Dame education for all—awarding students who achieve excellence despite difficult circumstances with the resources to experience all facets of the Notre Dame undergraduate experience. Financial Aid Notre Dame remains committed to meeting 100 percent of every student's demonstrated financial need. Your generosity makes this commitment—and the dream of a Notre Dame education—possible. Graduate Business Gifts to the Graduate Business Fund help underwrite fellowships for accomplished students and to compete against other top-tier graduate business programs. Hesburgh Women of Impact The Hesburgh Women of Impact initiative, named in honor of Fr. Ted’s transformational legacy, was created to emphasize all the good that women have done and can continue to do for Notre Dame. Notre Dame Fund Your gift to the Notre Dame Fund strengthens the University's ability to nimbly and effectively respond to critical and emerging needs, influencing nearly every area of University life. Class of 2022 Notre Dame Pledge Each year Notre Dame seniors participate in a tradition where they rally behind the students who will follow in their footsteps. Our goal is to get 83% of the senior class to pledge to make Notre Dame better than they left it. Student Life Student life reflects the traditions and experiences woven into the very fabric of Notre Dame. In giving to student life, you enable Domers to experience all that is uniquely and memorably "Notre Dame." The Law School Gifts to the Law School help serve in educating the next generation of compassionate and just lawyers by providing scholarships, career advancement, and academic resources. Veterans Fund The Notre Dame Veterans Fund helps offset tuition and living costs for military-affiliated students, providing resources to continue their education here at Notre Dame to serve God and country. Football Ticket Lottery Information By making a gift to the University, you may qualify for the Notre Dame Football Ticket Lottery and become eligible to purchase tickets to watch the Irish play in Notre Dame Stadium before they go on sale to the general public. Football Ticket Lottery Information Give the Gift of Notre Dame Begin Here $ Amount to give Home Priorities Student Emergency Relief Fund Academics Areas of Greatest Need Athletics Catholic Mission & Service Fighting Irish Initiative Financial Aid Graduate Business Hesburgh Women of Impact Notre Dame Fund Class of 2022 Notre Dame Pledge Student Life The Law School Veterans Fund Giving Societies Ways to Give Watch Stories Contact Give Now Student Emergency Relief Fund Academics Areas of Greatest Need Athletics Catholic Mission & Service Fighting Irish Initiative Financial Aid Graduate Business Hesburgh Women of Impact Notre Dame Fund Class of 2022 Notre Dame Pledge Student Life The Law School Veterans Fund Giving to Notre Dame 1100 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-7164 Fax (574) 631-9665 develop@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Phone