Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can data literacy be infused in teaching across disciplines? Matthew Jones, the James R. Barker Professor of Contemporary Civilization in the history department (left) and Chris Wiggins, associate professor of applied mathematics in Columbia Engineering, co-teach in Collaboratory@Columbia. Photo by John Pinderhughes Data and Society Engineering Business Data Science Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Today's data-saturated world presents new challenges and questions, urging students to develop a deeper data science understanding to solve complex problems. The Collaboratory@Columbia is responding to this global trend by embedding data literacy across Columbia’s curricula, pairing data scientists with professors in other fields to develop and teach new courses. The Collaboratory Fellows Fund supports new curricula to teach technical and critical thinking skills that students will need to become leaders in solving world problems, no matter what their field. The first projects included the Journalism School and the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation working together to develop a course on geographic information systems, spatial analysis, and web-based mapping for student journalists as well as another course on storytelling techniques for architecture students. Spanning the University, the Mailman School of Public Health is also developing a course on using big data while the Business School and Engineering design a technology curriculum intersecting with existing courses. In another part of the University, the School of International and Public Affairs and the computer science department are building on an existing course to lead a class in data science for public policy. Other Collaboratory initiatives have included a boot camp for Ph.D. students and post-docs interested in data science; more than 100 people applied last year for 30 places. A clinic in Butler Library to help faculty and students with data issues is also in the works, further preparing Columbians to take on a data-rich and increasingly data-driven society. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University