Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Giving to Notre Dame Priorities Giving Societies Ways to Give Watch Stories Contact Give Now Home Contact Search Menu Ways to Give You can make a gift to Notre Dame through a variety of methods that directly impact Our Lady's University and her students. Ways to Give You can make a gift to Notre Dame through a variety of methods that directly impact Our Lady's University and her students. There are many ways to make a gift to the University of Notre Dame. Below are some of the most common ways to make a gift, whether it is to a specific area of the University that you are passionate about or to the Notre Dame Fund that goes to areas of greatest need. More information about each of these areas can be found below. Football Ticket Lottery Information Giving Options One-time online gift not for you? Here are a number of other ways you can make an impact. Planned Giving Planned gifts have the unparalleled potential to increase the University’s ability to be a force for good in the world, while often affording exceptional financial and tax benefits to our planned gift benefactors. Corporate Giving Our Corporate Relations team builds mutually beneficial relationships with our corporate partners. Collaborating with Notre Dame’s world-class faculty, staff, and students, puts businesses in a better position to build their future. Foundation Giving Our Foundation Relations team is the gateway between Notre Dame’s academic innovation and private philanthropic organizations that build thriving, mutually beneficial partnerships. Faculty & Staff Giving Our faculty and staff offer an unparalleled collegiate experience to students through their tireless contributions to the University’s mission, including through financial gifts and payroll deduction. Matching Gifts You can maximize your charitable contribution to Notre Dame through matching gifts, a special benefit many companies offer their employees. Monthly Giving Monthly gifts of any size make an ongoing impact on Notre Dame's distinct mission while providing you convenient scheduling options. IRA Charitable Rollover If you are 70 1/2 years of age or older, an IRA Charitable Rollover Gift will allow you to make a gift to Notre Dame and reduce your tax liability. Tax Strategies Reduce your tax liability and make an impact at Notre Dame through strategic charitable giving leveraging updated tax laws. Honorary and Memorial Gifts Personalized gift funds are created to make contributions in honor or in memory of someone special to you. Donor Advised Fund A Notre Dame Donor Advised Fund is a powerful philanthropic vehicle that leverages the Notre Dame Endowment to maximize the impact of your charitable giving. How to Give Online Gift Phone Mail Wire Transfer Securities Give the Gift of Notre Dame Begin Here $ Amount to give Home Priorities Giving Societies Ways to Give Planned Giving Corporate Giving Foundation Giving Faculty & Staff Giving Matching Gifts Monthly Giving IRA Charitable Rollover Tax Strategies Honorary and Memorial Gifts Watch Stories Contact Give Now Planned Giving Corporate Giving Foundation Giving Faculty & Staff Giving Matching Gifts Monthly Giving IRA Charitable Rollover Tax Strategies Honorary and Memorial Gifts Giving to Notre Dame 1100 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-7164 Fax (574) 631-9665 develop@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Phone