Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? The Future of Neuroscience Engineering Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia scientists developed a new imaging technique to explore differences in how young brains and adult brains respond to stimuli and grow. Their results raise new questions about how the human brain meets its energy needs as it develops, possibly unlocking new answers for improving care for infants. Elizabeth Hillman, associate professor of biomedical engineering and radiology at Columbia Engineering and a principal investigator at Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, along with Mariel Kozberg, a recent Columbia neurobiology graduate in Hillman’s lab, used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to record activity and blood flow in the brains of mice of different ages, tracking how the brain responded to stimuli. In the youngest mice, brain activity did not trigger an increase in blood flow, but as the animals matured, the brain’s blood-flow got stronger. Blood vessels deliver oxygen-rich blood to the brain, so this raised questions about whether newborn brains can function and grow without increases in blood flow. “Newborns make an incredible transition from being inside the womb to breathing air in the delivery room,” noted Hillman. “To survive those first few hours, the newborn brain must be well prepared to withstand enormous fluctuations in the availability of oxygen.” Hillman is currently working with researchers in the Department of Psychiatry to analyze hundreds of fMRI scans collected from children to compare with her results with mice. If the same patterns are seen in human infants, fMRI could be used to better understand, detect, and track the origins of developmental disorders in human newborns. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University