Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home "Taking The Broad View" Dr. Theo Wilson Dr. Theo Wilson (right) with Rui Costa, PhD, director and chief executive officer at Columbia's Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute. Zuckerman Institute Why We Give Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In a life rich in facets—research biochemist, physician, university professor, health policy decision-maker, civil rights activist, devoted spouse—Dr. Theo Wilson has seen again and again the importance of thinking broadly. And these days he feels the urgency more than ever. “We need to improve how we're approaching the world's problems, from climate to health. So many organizations talk seriously about the human clock running down, and I want to promote a broader view of human activity to help save a world teetering on the edge.” One way to do so, Wilson decided, is through estate gifts to Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute. As a result Columbia will establish The Claudia Land and Dr. Theo George Wilson Ideas Fund and The Claudia Land and Dr. Theo George Wilson Scholars Fund, named in honor of Wilson and his late wife, who passed away in 2016. “I know the value of an interdisciplinary approach to science,” he says, “and I know the Zuckerman Institute is a great investment. It is the future.” Claudia Land and Dr. Theo Wilson Wilson and Land’s journey to Zuckerman began after they moved to New York in the mid-90s after 25 years out west, where he served on the faculty of Stanford University and as chief of medical policy in the department of health services for the state of California. For Claudia, who practiced law in California and then in New York, it was in fact a return—to New York, to Columbia, where she had studied biology in the 1950s, and to health-related subjects that had long interested her. She would earn two master’s degrees here, in bioethics and in narrative medicine. And over the years, she and Wilson saw the new directions Columbia was taking in brain science. “The Zuckerman Institute is a great investment. It is the future.” “We were intrigued by Columbia’s plans for the Zuckerman Institute and particularly enjoyed the lectures,” Wilson explains, referring to the Institute’s public programs. “Just to take one example, a researcher approaching the neurological aspects of bird song or other animal behavior may well also be looking at things historically and philosophically. The Zuckerman faculty also includes sculptors and artists and writers, as well as laboratory scientists, themselves broad thinkers. And we appreciated that at Zuckerman, research related to brain health is aimed not only to treating patients but also to understanding the implications for science, ethics, policy, and the public.” “Claudia’s passing presented me a problem,” Wilson relates. “I had a will that was very brief and to the point: ‘I leave everything to my beloved wife,’ end of story.” So Wilson revisited his estate plan and included the Zuckerman Institute as a beneficiary. I'm very happy,” he adds “to join Claudia’s name with mine in jointly supporting Columbia's work.” To learn more about Dr. Wilson’s journey from Scotland to Manhattanville, visit https://columbia.giftplans.org/index.php?cID=321 Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact "The Soul and Fabric of Society" The Choy Family "The Power of the Columbia Community" Brandon Martinez Gonzalez '16CC "Remembering Those Who Follow" Milton Edelin ’54CC, ’57GSAPP “The Next Generation Is Critical to Our Planet” Justin Peter (JP) Leous ’06SIPA See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University