Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Across Our Campuses Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Across Our Campuses Explore Columbia's impact, school by school Architecture, Planning & Preservation Arts, School of the Athletics Business Columbia Climate School Columbia College Data Science Institute Dental Medicine The Earth Institute Engineering Faculty of Arts & Sciences General Studies Graduate School of Arts & Sciences International & Public Affairs Journalism Law Nursing Professional Studies Public Health Social Work Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Zuckerman Institute Architecture, Planning & Preservation Learn More | Give Now "Creating a Legacy" Columbia University Expands New York City Mapping Project Thanks to Major Grant from Gardiner Foundation "Remembering Those Who Follow" Columbia Architecture Receives over $2 Million Donation from the IDC Foundation Two Architects Support the Next Generation of Architecture Students Laura Kurgan ’88GSAPP How can architecture respond to climate change? How can an interactive map bear witness to history? How can image-based blogging defeat Internet censorship? Arts, School of the Learn More | Give Now New Support for Students in the Arts and Social Work "The Soul and Fabric of Society" "What Money Can’t Buy" Columbia University School of the Arts Announces Solomon B. Hayden Fellowships to Support Diverse Voices in Art Immersive art illuminates rising sea levels Will cross-generational community foster success? Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? What can a play reveal about the illegal ivory trade? Can storytelling help AI be more human? Sanford Biggers David Henry Hwang Can a play speak for those betrayed by the American dream? Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre Realizing the Promise: Donors to the Lenfest Center for the Arts A new chapter for the arts at Columbia How can art inspire hope during wartime? Gerry Lenfest Pledges $30 Million to Fund New Arts Center on Manhattanville Campus Athletics Learn More | Give Now “Everyone at Columbia Has This Drive” "The Gift Columbia Gave Me" Built-to-win foundation in facilities, personnel Business Learn More | Give Now Columbia Business School's New Manhattanville Campus "Changing the Calculus for Business Students" “Everyone at Columbia Has This Drive” "Seeing Both Sides of Life at Columbia" $5 Million Gift to Columbia Business School Establishes Technology Entrepreneurship Program Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? How can data literacy be infused in teaching across disciplines? Students give back to communities in philanthropy course How can we incentivize climate-conscious behavior? Will congenital defects become a thing of the past? Will understanding inequality’s price lead to alternatives? Mendelson Center for Undergraduate Business Initiatives Created at Columbia University Columbia Climate School Learn More | Give Now At the Forefront of Climate Response Guiding Conversation and Change Columbia College Learn More | Give Now "Remembering Those Who Follow" "The Power of the Columbia Community" “Everyone at Columbia Has This Drive” "The Gift Columbia Gave Me" Transformational Gift to Advance Research and Teaching in Chemistry Butler banner project honors women writers and visionaries Will cross-generational community foster success? Columbia College Announces $6 Million Gift from Mary Kathryn and Alexander Navab '87CC to establish the Navab Fellowship Program Will a course inspire student philanthropy? How will global experiences shape students’ lives and careers? A personal reflection on the Core Curriculum How do ancient works inspire students’ creativity? How can students' curiosities lead to valuable scientific research? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? Mendelson Center for Undergraduate Business Initiatives Created at Columbia University Columbia College Launches Core to Commencement Campaign Data Science Institute Learn More | Give Now New Columbia Site Finds COVID-19 Trials Near You Tracking Stealth Transmission of COVID-19 CovidWatcher App Tracks Coronavirus Path and Effects in NYC Ethics curriculum enriches data courses How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Can tracking surgeons' stress make surgery safer? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? How can data literacy be infused in teaching across disciplines? Can real-time DNA sequencing speed up diagnosis and treatment of illnesses? What can policy students learn from data analysis? Dental Medicine Learn More | Give Now How can we capture data to personalize dental care? Will genetic testing help older adults avoid hospitalization? Stem cells from jaw bone help repair damaged cartilage The Earth Institute Learn More | Give Now Preparing for Compounded Crises What can COVID-19 teach us about climate change? Can data from old wildfires predict and prevent the next ones? Can we help the economy weather climate change? How is artificial intelligence helping fight climate change? Steven Cohen How can we defend precious marine life? What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Can filling in climate-data gaps lead to better crop yields and human health? How can we translate climate science into agricultural policy? What if climate models are wrong? How can predicting heat waves save lives? Kate Marvel Christine McCarthy How can we build for greater climate resilience? How can we better visualize sea-level rise data? How will global warming affect travel delays? How can accurate rainfall data help farmers insure their land? Adam Sobel Will seafloor-based instruments help lessen the toll of natural disasters? Robin Bell How can we incentivize climate-conscious behavior? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can drones help uncover the great secrets of our planet? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Peter B. de Menocal '92GSAS Maureen E. Raymo Engineering Learn More | Give Now New Doctoral Fellowships for Engineering Thought Leaders and Innovators in Data Science "Opening Up a World" "Seeing Both Sides of Life at Columbia" Game Theory Finds Who is at Fault in Self-Driving Car Accidents Machine Learning Grants Robots Precise Sense of Touch Mining Neural Data to Heal Epilepsy Patients Robotic Neck Brace Helps People with ALS Will cross-generational community foster success? Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? How do students bring a vintage synthesizer back its groove? Tang Family Gives $20 Million to Establish the Tang Fund for Engineering Innovations in Financial Technology Tang Family Gives $20 Million to Establish the Tang Fund for Engineering Innovations in Financial Technology Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? How can data literacy be infused in teaching across disciplines? Can real-time DNA sequencing speed up diagnosis and treatment of illnesses? Unpacking the "Aha!" moment to make better split-second decisions How can we help Parkinson's patients avoid falls? Kate Marvel Will a chip reverse blindness? Can artificial intelligence find better drug treatments? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? How can we safely reduce toxic byproducts of steel and iron production? How can machine learning help us hear cries for help? Can tracking teens’ tweets counter gang violence? How can a Global Center's Innovation Hub encourage partnership? Will congenital defects become a thing of the past? Can nanotechnology map the human brain? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? Will “deep learning” put us on the road to driverless cars? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is digital anonymity an illusion? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Faculty of Arts & Sciences Learn More | Give Now Transformational Gift to Advance Research and Teaching in Chemistry Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Can visual metaphors deepen public understanding of the brain? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? George Chauncey How can an online course expand knowledge of women's history? How can artists and scientists help each other ask questions? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? Rafael Yuste How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Zainab Bahrani George E. Lewis Can skateboard art fight stereotypes? How do we ensure the ethical use of new medical technologies? Peter Bearman Will Googling help us think better? Can nanotechnology map the human brain? Brent Stockwell Can we design more efficient solar cells? Where are Hispanics in US media? Can brain science lead to more constructive drug policies? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? Geraldine Downey Sakıp Sabancı Chair and Center for Turkish Studies Created at Columbia University General Studies Learn More | Give Now Will cross-generational community foster success? Can a student once in prison support formerly incarcerated scholars like her? Helping veterans transition from combat to classroom Will a course inspire student philanthropy? Bringing the best: who's the next Oscar? Rhodes Scholar aspires to change European migration and education policies Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Learn More | Give Now "The Life of the Mind" "What Money Can’t Buy" Transformational Gift to Advance Research and Teaching in Chemistry Columbia Establishes the Howard McP. Davis Professorship of Art History, Deepening Scholarship in Renaissance Art Sons Support Music Students in Honor of Their Father, Howard Serwer '50BUS How do students bring a vintage synthesizer back its groove? Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? Sociology PhD candidate seeks to understand why her parents "fell through the cracks" Rachel Adams Can we design more efficient solar cells? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? A $13 Million Gift Establishes Professorship and Center for Japanese Art History International & Public Affairs Learn More | Give Now “The Next Generation Is Critical to Our Planet” SIPA Launches Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Students Inspire MTV's Spotlight on Maternal Mortality Can students inform NYC's urban agriculture policies? A Decade of Transformation: The Lemann Foundation and Columbia Steven Cohen Tamar Mitts How can we prevent violence caused by climate change? How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? What can policy students learn from data analysis? Can coal make a comeback? Vishakha Desai How can we incentivize climate-conscious behavior? Will understanding inequality’s price lead to alternatives? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? Journalism Learn More | Give Now "So They Can Be Truth Tellers" Center for Global Journalism Established at Columbia Journalism School Journalism School Receives $10M from Craig Newmark Philanthropies to Launch a New Center for Journalism Ethics and Security How do we prepare future journalists to parse big data for truth? Will deeper reporting lead to greater climate accountability? Nicholas Lemann Interviewing the reef—a new kind of environmental journalism? Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Jelani Cobb Law Learn More | Give Now Chinese Legal Studies Center Named for Hong Yen Chang 1886, the First Chinese Lawyer in the U.S. Gift From Davis Polk to Expand Legal Services in West Harlem Game Theory Finds Who is at Fault in Self-Driving Car Accidents Law School Alumni and Friends Meet Jerome Greene Foundation Challenge to Endow 50 New Scholarships A Decade of Transformation: The Lemann Foundation and Columbia How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? Will documenting human rights conditions help LGBT asylum seekers? How can law students support asylum seekers? Sabin Center and StateAG.org launch environmental action database How can data combat government corruption? Suzanne Goldberg Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? Nursing Learn More | Give Now Simmons Bequest to Fund Columbia Nursing’s First Full Tuition Clinical Scholarship "To Have That Confidence" Nurse Practitioner-run faculty practice helps transform primary care Professional Studies Learn More | Give Now Will cross-generational community foster success? Will a fellowship for students from Historically Black Colleges help diversify business? Will listening better to patients’ stories improve healthcare? Public Health Learn More | Give Now Tracking Stealth Transmission of COVID-19 Stopping the Next Pandemic Before it Starts Global Study Launches on Mental Health of Frontline Healthcare Workers Income drops may hurt brain health How do we protect infants from malaria? How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Closing the alcohol gateway to cocaine How can predicting heat waves save lives? How can we teach health professionals to combat the effects of climate change? Andrea Baccarelli Can B-vitamins ward off the effects of air pollution? Global Consortium educates leaders on climate and health How can brain scans help treat and prevent PTSD? DuBois Bowman Can we predict who will develop Parkinson’s disease before symptoms develop? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? Social Work Learn More | Give Now New Support for Students in the Arts and Social Work "The Soul and Fabric of Society" "To Help Somebody like Me" Can mapping hunger in New York City help people in poverty? Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Can tracking teens’ tweets counter gang violence? Tele-health in social work extends clinical services A Scholarship for Social Workers Desmond Patton Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Learn More | Give Now Can the way you drive reveal early signs of dementia? With $16 Million Gift, Columbia Establishes Treatment Center and Clinical Trials Network for Lyme and Tick-Borne Diseases Columbia Screens COVID-19 Survivors for Antibodies All of Us Program Leaps Forward, Diversifying Precision Medicine Research Capturing images to improve CRISPR-based gene editing Mapping MS to reveal potential avenues for treatment Anil Rustgi, MD, Heads Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center Will looking beyond genes to proteins help us find new drug targets? Can genomic testing help us better treat kidney disease? Why do genetic mutations cause disease in some people but not in others? How can we tailor bladder cancer treatments to patients? Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? How can hundreds of female patients advance endometriosis research? Closing the alcohol gateway to cocaine Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? Will new methods accelerate the discovery of cancer treatments? Can we erase painful memories while keeping others intact? Will genetic testing help older adults avoid hospitalization? Neil Shneider Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? Graduate student uses precision medicine to understand his disorder for others Now that we can alter our genetic code, should we? David Goldstein Michael Shadlen Wendy Chung How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? Herbert and Florence Irving Make Transformational Gift to Columbia for Genomic Cancer Research and Care Largest Campaign Gift to CUMC Will Support New Building Zuckerman Institute Learn More | Give Now Why should you try something new every day? How can research opportunities bring more women to the field of neuroscience? "Taking The Broad View" Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute to Accelerate the Study of Brain Longevity with Gift from Israeli Philanthropist and Business Leader Sami Sagol Brain lab becomes 3D-printing factory for healthcare worker face shields New insights into Alzheimer’s tangles Revolutionary microscope captures biology at the speed of life An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? Michael Shadlen Rudy Behnia Richard Axel Can a Wellness Center improve the health of Columbia's neighbors? Can nanotechnology map the human brain? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? With $200 Million Gift, Mortimer B. Zuckerman Endows Mind Brain Behavior Institute at Columbia University Columbia to Launch New Neuroscience Center in New York City with the Largest Gift in University History Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University