About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give Creating Confident Voices The Arthur M. Blank Family Foundation brings new hope to people who stutter. What starts here allows unique voices to be heard. The Arthur M. Blank Center for Stuttering Education and Research is the result of a world-changing $20 million legacy grant from the Arthur M. Blank Family Foundation. This new center, part of the Moody College of Communication at The University of Texas at Austin, expands the work of Dr. Courtney Byrd. Her scientifically grounded, whole-person therapeutic approach helps individuals who stutter grow as confident, effective communicators. “I started here as a student and I took every opportunity I could to steadily build a support system, not only for research but for treatment for the stuttering community,” says Byrd, founding and executive director of the center. “Arthur Blank understands the power of a great university. He has contributed support for us that will ensure our mission lasts in perpetuity.” Among the Blank Center’s projects is Camp Dream. Speak. Live. — a free annual camp that helps children who stutter gain the confidence and skills they need to navigate their neurological difference. Donor support allows UT Austin to develop engaging programming that makes life-changing differences to people in Texas and around the world. This video is part of World-Changing Gifts, a series highlighting the impact of transformational investments made during UT’s What Starts Here fundraising campaign. Stories of Impact More Stories Heroes in the Making Thanks to the generosity of donors, Forty Acres Scholars and future nurses learn to change the world, one patient at a time. Breaking New Ground in Energy A gift from Gary L. Thomas supports UT Austin’s reputation as a global leader in energy education. Paying Dividends McCombs graduate Phil Canfield and wife Mary Beth support UT’s Canfield Business Honors Program with student scholarships, keeping enterprising minds on the Forty Acres. giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback