Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Ways to Give Recurring Gifts Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Ways to Give Recurring Gifts Why Is Recurring Giving Important? Columbia University develops leaders who turn knowledge into action by working for the world and with the world. A recurring gift is a simple, automatic way to support this mission, in accordance with your budget and frequency preference. Benefits to You You set the frequency and amount of your recurring gift, and make changes at any time by emailing webgift@columbia.edu. You gain automatic membership in the Loyal Blue Society. As a member, you will receive exclusive content and recognition in select University publications. You receive one annual year-end receipt summarizing your giving. How to Set Up Your Recurring Gift Choose the area/fund you would like to support by visiting our secure website. Indicate the amount of your gift. Click the button to indicate "YES" you would like to make this a recurring gift. Choose the frequency of your gift (monthly, quarterly, or annually). Your generosity has a lasting impact on many lives. Learn more by visiting Why We Give. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University