Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can research opportunities bring more women to the field of neuroscience? Tamta Arakhamia (left) and Christina Lee. The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Two undergraduates, Tamta Arakhamia and Christina Lee, have been working in the Fitzpatrick Lab at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute. There, they have been studying the mysterious protein tangles that characterize Alzheimer’s disease. These tangles cause brain cells to die, resulting in the loss of basic functions. In the lab, Arakhamia and Lee have been focusing on tau, a toxic protein, looking for the initial event that makes the proteins start to gather in a specific location. By examining the structure of the protein using a cryo-electron microscope, they are able to see the actual protein filaments. These glimpses of protein tangles, including sightings of denser areas, will allow them to trace their origins. “It’s exciting because this was my first experience with actual research,” said Arakhamia. Her research at the Fitzpatrick Lab enabled her to shadow a top neurosurgeon at the Mayo Clinic in Florida, helping her explore a potential career path linked to the work she has done on Alzheimer’s disease. Lee’s time in the lab has validated her interest in pursuing scientific research as a career: “It really has confirmed for me that I really like being in a lab and doing science every day. And ideally, I think I’d like to do that for the rest of my life.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Mapping MS to reveal potential avenues for treatment What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Revolutionary microscope captures biology at the speed of life See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University