Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will “deep learning” put us on the road to driverless cars? Data and Society Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Twenty-eight thousand people die each week around the world in car accidents mostly due to human error. Hod Lipson, professor of mechanical engineering and data science at Columbia, and director of the Creative Machines Lab, says now is the time to let robots take the wheel. Lipson, coauthor of the 2016 book Driverless: Intelligent Cars and the Road Ahead, says recent advances in software and robotics have finally made the development of autonomous vehicles possible. In the past few years, there has been an explosion in artificial intelligence (AI), particularly deep learning. Deep learning trains driverless cars by feeding them massive amounts of visual data that cameras gather during trips. “No human driver can have more than one lifetime of driving experience. A car that is part of an AI network can, within a year, have a thousand lifetimes of experience, because it can get information from all the scenes and situations that every other car has experienced. It’s another reason why these cars will drive better than any human has ever driven. They will have experienced every possible situation,” Lipson said. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University