Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can real-time DNA sequencing speed up diagnosis and treatment of illnesses? Students with the MinION, currently the smallest DNA sequencer Data and Society Engineering Data Science Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Processing DNA samples can take hours or even days, and the required equipment is usually immobile and confined to laboratories. Now researchers at Columbia have developed a new handheld technology that creates a full genetic map of sample cells from DNA in real time. This real-time DNA-authentication could be used in everything from identifying criminals to diagnosing illnesses to tracking epidemics. But its greatest value could be in research laboratories. Lacking the expensive machinery needed to validate DNA samples, most researchers skip validation or ship their cultures to specialized labs which can delay important findings and treatments. Misidentified or contaminated cell lines is blamed for as much as a third of the estimated $28 billion spent each year on studies that can’t be replicated. The software is designed to run on the MinION, an instrument the size of a credit card that pulls in strands of DNA through its microscopic pores and reads out sequences of nucleotides. An algorithm randomly compares these samples with other genetic profiles on file. With each cross-check, the algorithm updates the likelihood of finding a match, rapidly narrowing the search. This technology promises significant impact in diagnosing people's illnesses more quickly to target and improve treatment. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University