Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Colleges You can choose to give to any college or unit at NC State, supporting more than 35,000 students, more than 2,000 faculty and almost 7,000 staff across the university. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences discovers, teaches and applies knowledge to create a safer, cleaner, better world. College of Design The College of Design has a long and distinguished record of producing leading professionals across a remarkable range of design-related disciplines. College of Education The College of Education prepares teachers, administrators, counselors, researchers and analysts for careers in education from K-12 to postsecondary. College of Engineering The College of Engineering ranks among the best in innovation, research and the education of future engineers in both traditional and cutting-edge disciplines. College of Humanities and Social Sciences The College of Humanities and Social Sciences provides education, research and extension in established and emerging fields. Poole College of Management The Poole College of Management's full spectrum of business programs teaches students to put theory into practice and solve real-world problems. College of Natural Resources The College of Natural Resources is a top educator and research hub in forestry, environmental sciences, wood, paper, pulp, parks, recreation and tourism. College of Sciences The College of Sciences prepares students to solve the grand challenges posed in the biological, mathematical and physical sciences. Wilson College of Textiles The Wilson College of Textiles is the world's education leader in traditional textile manufacturing, medical textiles, nonwovens, marketing and supply chain management. College of Veterinary Medicine The College of Veterinary Medicine is a top-five teaching facility, providing state-of-the-art medical care while training the next generation of veterinarians and researchers. The Graduate School The Graduate School is the heart of NC State's research community, offering more than 100 degree programs in addition to minors, certificates and other graduate-level options. Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.