Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Data and Society Data Science Institute Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The potential health hazards of chemicals used across industries are often kept secret from consumers until too late. Johnson & Johnson was recently accused of knowingly selling baby powder with cancer-causing asbestos and is facing more than 10,000 lawsuits. Now Columbia researchers have launched an initiative to shed light on which companies use toxic substances, and how these companies may have suppressed evidence of the serious harm their products may cause. ToxicDocs is a free online database that contains millions of pages of previously secret industry documents about toxic substance use. Researchers at the Mailman School of Public Health and the City University of New York created the extensive site with funding from the National Science Foundation through Columbia's Data Science Institute. Many documents were only made public once companies introduced them in court but have been difficult for consumers to access. They include internal memos, unpublished scientific studies, public relations campaigns, meeting minutes, and presentations—some dating back to the 1920s—related to the manufacture and use of new products and chemicals. The companies represented range from a small brake manufacturer to multinational giants like Johnson & Johnson and Monsanto. Professor David Rosner, one of the ToxicDocs creators, has spent decades accumulating boxes and boxes of company records. He even served as an expert witness in a Johnson & Johnson case, testifying that the company was aware of hazardous materials in their baby powder but “ignored, denied and sought to counter the science that indicated danger.” “Our hope is that as researchers, journalists, and the public begin to plumb this digital data, we will be better able to understand and counteract the impact of a century of industrialism on our environment and the world,” said Rosner. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Can tracking surgeons' stress make surgery safer? What is the Columbia commitment to data and society? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University