Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can hair loss be reversed? Precision Medicine Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Researchers at Columbia University Irving Medical Center have identified what may be the first effective treatment for hair loss caused by alopecia areata, an autoimmune disease and the second most common form of hair loss. In alopecia areata, the patient’s own immune system turns against one's hair follicles, treating them as dangerous intruders. Angela Christiano, associate professor of molecular dermatology, and her team discovered the particular immune cells and pathways responsible for destroying hair follicles. They then used their understanding of these mechanisms, derived from five years of genetic studies, to identify existing drugs that could block signaling along these pathways. In a small clinical trial of one of these drugs, ruxolitinib, 75 percent of patients with moderate to severe forms of the condition showed significant hair growth. By the end of treatment, average hair regrowth among patients was 92 percent. The research team plans to test these drugs for such conditions as vitiligo, scarring alopecia, and pattern baldness. Learn More. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University