Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will long-form reporting shape our understanding of global issues? Global Solutions Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A campus-based program founded in 2015, Columbia Global Reports commissions noted authors to do on-site reporting around the globe on a wide range of underreported issues. The books educate the public and decision-makers on issues related to global policies in government, science, business, and culture. Recent works on pressing global issues include: Is Populism the movement that is transforming global politics? The Populist Explosion: How the Great Recession Transformed American and European Politics was published in October 2016, but it presaged the election of President Donald Trump. Author John B. Judis documents the rise of Populism from its start and shows how unrest across the globe is a result of discontent with a perceived elite majority. He argues that the current unrest across the globe was triggered by the 2008 recession and is beginning a cycle of disruptive change. What will 21st century fiction look like? Adam Kirsch is an award-winning poet and critic. In The Global Novel: Writing the World in the 21st Century, he examines writers, including Haruki Murakami, Elena Ferrante, Roberto Bolaño, and Margaret Atwood, to better understand literature in the age of globalization and how modern novels address both urgent contemporary concerns—climate change, genetic engineering, and immigration—along with timeless themes, such as morality, society, and human relationships. What happens when a democratically elected leader evolves into an authoritarian ruler? In A Question of Order: India, Turkey, and the Return of Strongmen, journalist Basharat Peer provides an account of how the charismatic strongmen Narendra Modi in India and Recep Tayyip Erdoğan in Turkey used the power they had won as elected heads of state to push their countries toward authoritarian ways, limiting press freedom, civil liberties, and religious and ethnic tolerance. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can Columbia World Projects further mobilize Columbia’s strengths to solve problems? Can door-to-door testing turn the tide of the AIDS epidemic? How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? How can the Committee on Global Thought originate new ways of research and teaching about the 21st century world? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University