Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can Columbia World Projects further mobilize Columbia’s strengths to solve problems? Global Solutions Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia World Projects (CWP), announced in the spring of 2017, will create a setting for leading faculty from across the University and partners from around the world to take on urgent problems and address them on the scale of months and years, not decades. CWP’s access to vast repositories of knowledge and deep regional connections will empower its work and invigorate effective, demonstrable solutions. Columbia’s network of eight global centers will be vital to CWP, and our faculty’s expertise in nearly every nation and location throughout the world will maximize its reach. The first capstone projects within CWP will be announced soon. A hallmark of CWP will be carefully selecting pressing global problems and tailoring workable solutions within reasonable time frames. Read President Lee Bollinger’s full statement announcing Columbia World Projects. Ideas and Impact Will long-form reporting shape our understanding of global issues? Can door-to-door testing turn the tide of the AIDS epidemic? How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? How can the Committee on Global Thought originate new ways of research and teaching about the 21st century world? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University