Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Climate Response Data and Society Global Solutions Just Societies Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Faculty Students Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why We Give ope Twitter Facebook LinkedIn The IRA Gift (QCD) Gift Planning Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options Gifts by Will or Trust Naming Us in Your Assets The IRA Gift (QCD) Life Income Gifts Charitable Lead Trust Retained Life Estates Bargain Sale What You Can Give Resources Connect with Us Office of Gift Planning » Call (212) 851-7857 Tax Info Legal Name: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Tax ID Number: 13-5598093 Mobile Menu Why Plan Now Plan Your Legacy Giving Options Gifts by Will or Trust Naming Us in Your Assets The IRA Gift (QCD) Life Income Gifts Charitable Lead Trust Retained Life Estates Bargain Sale What You Can Give Resources Breadcrumb Home » Giving Options Here is a tax-smart way to make an impact to Columbia University using your traditional or Roth IRA. The IRA charitable rollover (also called the Qualified Charitable Distribution, or QCD) is a great way to make a tax-free gift to Columbia University and satisfy your Required Minimum Distribution (RMD). If you are not required to take an RMD but no longer itemize your deductions, then a QCD may be right for you as well. How Do I Qualify? The IRA charitable rollover (QCD) offers multiple benefits for making gifts from your traditional or Roth IRA. You must be 70 ½ years or older at the time of the gift. Gifts must go directly from your IRA to Columbia University. Gifts must come from a traditional IRA or Roth IRA account. Gifts cannot exceed $100,000 per donor per year. Benefits of an IRA Charitable Rollover Gift If you don’t itemize deductions and are not yet required to take your RMD, a QCD offers all of the benefits of an itemized income tax charitable deduction If you are age 72 or older and must take your RMD, a QCD can satisfy your RMD without increasing your income taxes. You may direct your gift to a program or area of your choice. It is a wonderful way to create an immediate impact on Columbia University. How can I make an IRA Charitable Rollover? Contact your IRA administrator for their QCD distribution form and information on the procedure to make such a gift, or get started with these sample letters: to your IRA administrator and to Columbia to notify us of your gift. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University