Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Game Theory Finds Who is at Fault in Self-Driving Car Accidents Data and Society Engineering Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel While research on self-driving cars have understandably focused on ensuring safety and traffic efficiency, little has been done to explore human drivers’ behavioral adaptation to self-driving cars. Will humans become less cautious as self-driving cars become the norm? In an accident involving an autonomous vehicle (AV) and a human driver, who is liable? If both are liable, how should the accident loss be split between them? To tackle these questions, researchers at Columbia Engineering and Columbia Law School have developed a joint fault-based liability rule that can be used to regulate both self-driving car manufacturers and human drivers. They developed a game-theoretic model that describes the interactions among the law maker, the self-driving car manufacturer, the self-driving car, and human drivers, and examine how, as self-driving cars become more ubiquitous, the liability rule should evolve. The researchers developed a sort of autonomous video game combining complex interactions between human drivers, between the AV manufacturer and human-driven vehicles, and between the law maker and other users. The game is then run with numerical examples to investigate the emergence of human drivers' “moral hazard,” the AV manufacturer's role in traffic safety, and the law maker's role in liability design. The need for this kind of strategic thinking was made evident in a recent decision by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) on an Uber crash that killed a pedestrian in Arizona. The NTSB split the blame among Uber, the company’s autonomous vehicle (AV), the safety driver in the vehicle, the victim, and the state of Arizona. The Engineering and Law researchers hope their analytical tools will inform AV policy-makers in their regulatory decisions and help mitigate uncertainty in the existing regulatory environment around AV technologies. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can storytelling help AI be more human? Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Can data from old wildfires predict and prevent the next ones? Ethics curriculum enriches data courses See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University