Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Cornell designated class funds Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Gifts from abroad Matching gifts Senior Class Campaign Foundation Relations & Corporate Philanthropy Matching gifts Multiply the power of your gift through your company's matching gift program. Make your gift count even more by taking advantage of your company’s matching gift program. Many companies and organizations encourage philanthropy by matching your gift. Matches automatically increase the impact of your gift–and are a great way to secure even more support for the areas you love most at Cornell. When your gift is matched, you’re making an even bigger difference for the college, unit, team, project, or group you support. Thank you! A matched gift can also help qualify you for membership in one of Cornell’s giving societies. When you become a part of one or more giving societies, we show our appreciation and recognize you for your contributions and commitment to Cornell. Matching your gift can help you join fast! For additional questions, email us at CUmatchinggifts@cornell.edu. Why give to Cornell Make a difference, honor a loved one, give back, help today's students and faculty—there are many reasons to give. What is yours? Learn more Libe Slope and McGraw Tower in fall. Photo: Lindsay France/Cornell Marketing Group Give where it's needed most Annual funds provide immediate support or urgent needs and new opportunities. Turn today's ideas into tomorrow's action or help fill a gap. Learn more Students jumping on the Arts Quad. Photo: Lindsay France/Cornell Marketing Group Advance your college Choose the school or college that means the most to you from across our seven undergraduate colleges and four graduate and professional units. Give today Photo: Cornell Marketing Group Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022