Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Shawn "JAY-Z" Carter Lecture Series Brings New Perspectives from the Arts and Beyond Arts and Ideas Just Societies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In February, Columbia launched the Shawn “Jay-Z” Carter Lecture Series as a new ongoing program in the African American and African Diaspora Studies Department. The occasion was marked by Carter himself, who visited the University Forum in Manhattanville for a conversation with Jelani Cobb, Ira A. Lipman Professor of Journalism. Their dialogue, and a lively Q + A session, touched on Carter’s music as well as his perspective—as an artist, activist, and philanthropist—on American life and culture. Drawing inspiration from Carter’s multimedia success, the series will aim to provide fresh perspectives on campus by spotlighting artists, musicians, dancers, writers, public intellectuals, and activists as well as scholars and other noteworthy contributors to African American and African Diaspora Studies. “The Carter Lecture Series sits at the heart of our mission to create and sustain an intellectual community bridging scholarship, teaching and public life,” according to Farah Jasmine Griffin, chair of the AAADS department. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact "Tales from the Mano River" transforms Miller Theatre Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? A new chapter for the arts at Columbia See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University