Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Tamar Mitts Data and Society International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Assistant Professor of International and Public Affairs My commitment: Using new data tools to better understand and help prevent extremism I study how armed groups mobilize on social media. With social media data comes something completely new to researchers. We can analyze extremist groups and how their activity online recruits others to join them. I have studied what was happening in ISIS networks and how their behavior online translates into real world consequences. Finding correlations in data such as unemployment rates and incidents of hate crimes can help us understand what in the social context can radicalize a person. Using this same information, we can also explore how can we de-radicalize individuals and sway groups away from extremism. Achieving this better understanding of what is going on in extremism can help design better policy to solve it. Keep up with Tamar Mitts: @TamarMitts Ideas and Impact Can tracking surgeons' stress make surgery safer? How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University