What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now CHANGING THE WORLD See what your investment in UT makes possible Tapping Texas Talent Generous donors are helping Longhorns become the leaders and world-changers of tomorrow. You Make it Possible See what your philanthropy made possible in 2020-21. Sound Investment Get a first look at the new Butler Sound Gallery. Hometown Heroine McCombs alumna and Zoom CFO gives back to UT students. First Responders UT leads rapid response to natural disasters. Growing Memories Alumnae invest in an inviting entrance to the Forty Acres. Good Chemistry The Welch Foundation transforms science and society through their generous support of fundamental scientific research. Thriving Communities UT’s Hogg Foundation receives $1M to support Texas families. Reimagined, Refreshed, Recreated Donors and alumni transform the Blanton. Unlocking Potential The generosity of donors is making a difference for UT students. For Texas We Will Texas Orange Jackets give back with a new scholarship. Speaking from the Heart The Moody College of Communication receives $20 million to support stuttering research. Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback