Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can storytelling help AI be more human? Arts and Ideas Data and Society Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A new interactive installation reimagines the tale of Frankenstein for the digital age, exploring the fears and promise of artificial intelligence (AI). In honor of the 200th anniversary of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, Rachel Ginsberg, Nick Fortugno and Lance Weiler created their own version of Shelley’s monster: an AI powered by emotions and stories. Developed and produced at Columbia’s School of the Arts' Digital Storytelling Lab, the AI was initially programmed with the text of the original Frankenstein. The installation, Frankenstein AI: A Monster Made by Many, premiered at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival and will travel the country for the next two years. In the first act, audience members engage in one-on-one conversations with fellow participants about memories and feelings. These conversations are recorded and input into the machine. Then, in Act II, the AI directly asks the audience questions about human emotion and behavior, using answers to generate further questions like, “How do you talk to someone to fall in love?” Finally, the AI directs a dancer in real time, feeding instructions into her headset. Weiler and his fellow creators envisioned Frankenstein AI as an opportunity to consider the growing role of AI, from personal assistants in our phones to predictive algorithms on streaming services. Like Shelley’s monster, they believe, AI needs to be understood, not feared. Considering the problem of implicit bias in algorithms, for example, they wondered if building machine learning around human-to-human contact might lead to greater inclusion of different perspectives. Says Fortugno, “What does it mean that you have a system that’s built out of pieces of human interaction, rather than pieces that are tied to the main uses of artificial intelligence, which are commercial and military?” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can a play reveal about the illegal ivory trade? How can art inspire hope during wartime? A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Creating art for all in New York City's subways See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University