Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can nanotechnology map the human brain? The Future of Neuroscience Engineering Zuckerman Institute Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel “If you stop neuroscientists on the street and ask them, ‘Why don’t we understand how the brain works?’, nine times out of ten they’re going to tell you it’s because it’s very complicated,” says Rafael Yuste, a Columbia professor of biological sciences and neuroscience. The NeuroTechnology Center (NTC), which Yuste leads, brings together physical scientists, neuroscientists, and engineers on the Morningside campus to unpack these complexities with new brain imaging technologies. NTC was created in response to former President Obama’s BRAIN Initiative (Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies), which supports research showing how individual brain cells and neural circuits interact. NTC includes faculty from the Arts and Sciences departments, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, and the Kavli Institute for Brain Science. One NTC project even involves attaching nano-sized diamonds to neurons. Built by chemists and used by physicists, these tiny diamonds are sensitive to voltage shifts and were chemically altered to change colors when neurons fire, illuminating the trillions of neural connections making up how we think and act. Another NTC initiative, the 3D Imaging Project, uses algorithms to analyze imaging data from tissue and extract neuron activity at different brain depths. If the project succeeds, scientists may be able to make 3D movies of brain activity. “It’s not completely crazy to think that in ten years we might have the ability to record the activity of individual neurons non-invasively,” says Yuste. Nanotechnology is changing how we see the brain to understand it like never before. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will Googling help us think better? What does poverty do to kids’ brains? How can we help Parkinson's patients avoid falls? Unpacking the "Aha!" moment to make better split-second decisions See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University