Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Robin Bell Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Palisades Geophysical Institute/Lamont Research Professor, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory; Lecturer in Earth and Sciences My commitment: Understanding and predicting sea-level rise I am committed to understanding how fast, and how much, the sea level will rise in the coming decades. We do this by tracking melting and movement of ice in polar regions, which are warming faster than anywhere else on our planet. Some people tell me they think scientists are making up the data. But data is our truth. It’s the integrity of our work. To communicate the beauty of our planet and make sure our planet remains beautiful—those are my priorities. Keep up with Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory: @LamontEarth Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we safely reduce toxic byproducts of steel and iron production? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University