Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can image-based blogging defeat Internet censorship? Just Societies Architecture, Planning & Preservation Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Internet use in China is policed—watched over, censored, and punished—by a human and technological program nicknamed “The Great Firewall.” Content deemed politically unacceptable or sensitive (like the Tiananmen Square massacre) is kept invisible to Chinese Internet users. Yet there is a way to vault over the Firewall: posting controversial content as images on the Twitter-like microblogging platform Weibo. At Columbia’s Center for Spatial Research, Jumping the Great Firewall visualizes this spread of image-based, illicit content on Weibo from September 8 to November 13 in 2013. Images are trickier for automated search programs to trace, so Weibo users often turn their writing into pictures before taking screenshots of their posts, then posting and reposting those shots after the original is deleted. Like a digital pulse, Jumping the Great Firewall marks in red the censored Weibo posts along an x-axis of time and y-axis of report count. Clicking on one post expands it into dozens of different, simultaneous posts, each listing who posted it, how many times it was reposted, and how many minutes before its deletion. Jumping The Great Firewall documents kaleidoscopic cyber democracies. What else is out there? Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University