Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? The Future of Neuroscience Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Led by Columbia neuroscientist Rafael Yuste, the Morningside Group, a team of physicians, ethicists, neuroscientists, and computer scientists, including engineers from Google and neurotechnology start-ups, recently developed ethical guidelines for the emerging technologies of neural implants and artificial intelligence. Computer hardware and software are increasingly able to merge with the human mind, offering new possibilities for treating conditions from brain injury and paralysis to epilepsy and schizophrenia. As these brain-computer interfaces become more sophisticated, Yuste anticipates that they will link directly with machine intelligence, allowing a person with an implant to surpass current human capacities for endurance and mental agility. The Morningside Group identified four ethical hazards raised by this technology: the loss of privacy, agency, and identity, and a rise in social inequities. Neural enhancement may become the province of the well-off, widening inequality, as well as providing new avenues for exploitation and manipulation by hackers, corporations, and governments. Fundamental human characteristics like private mental life and individual agency could also come under threat. In response, the Group issued a set of recommendations in Nature. To protect privacy, for example, they advocate for strict regulation of the sale and commercial use of brain data and that the sharing of this data requires opting-in. They call for adding clauses to international treaties and an international convention to oversee issues of agency and identity: defining prohibited actions, regulating the military use of neural technology, and educating people on the potential effects on mood, personality, and sense of self. “We just want to ensure that this new technology, which is so exciting, and which could revolutionize our lives, is used for the good of mankind,” said Yuste. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University