Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Our Commitment To Precision Medicine Why? The Challenge Our Commitment With the mapping of the human genome and other recent scientific advances, we can now sequence the genome of each individual patient. Scientists and doctors are beginning to harness the power of genomic sequencing to make treatment as patient-specific and precise as possible. Improved capabilities to gather and analyze vast amounts of data are leading to new diagnostic methods and to the identification of new applications for existing drugs. And data analysis is also providing new perspectives on the critical relationship between an individual’s health and her genome, environment, and lifestyle. What do we know about a patient before she walks through the door? What are the particular molecular characteristics of her specific disease? How will it respond to treatment with the therapies available? What will the medications’ side effects be for her? And how will we handle the ethical and social questions that new targeted therapies may raise? Precision medicine will help us answer these and other vital questions, making it possible to provide the right drug at the right dose at the right time for more patients every day. Although we have technology that enables rapid genomic sequencing at ever lower prices, the process of translating genomic data into biological understanding and clinical treatment is only now becoming possible. Most genetic diseases are complex, involving multiple genetic mutations and pathways—at least 25 genes are associated with ALS, for example. Only through large studies involving many participants can we begin to understand the meaning of each piece of the genome, in turn giving us the power to translate the growing amount of raw genomic data into actionable scientific discovery. As precision medicine becomes integrated into clinical care, it is vital that we address crucial ethical, social, and legal questions. Who will have access to new, life-saving technologies? Will having a certain genetic profile lead to discrimination? How do we distinguish between disability and human variation? Can we guarantee that an individual’s genetic data remains private? With the capacity to heal the human body in new ways, we have a responsibility—to ourselves and future generations—to match breakthroughs in technology with perspectives that encompass the full human being. The Columbia Precision Medicine Initiative brings together medicine, genomics, data science, and the core science and engineering disciplines. Together, Columbians are using a whole-system approach in understanding how diseases work to develop drugs that target pathways regulated by multiple genes. Columbia researchers are applying sophisticated mathematics to vast data sets, leading to new insights in cancer, neuroscience, biology, and more. Columbia’s Precision Medicine Initiative does not stop there. Faculty and students in social sciences, humanities, law, and business are working together to understand and address complicated societal questions through Columbia’s Precision Medicine and Society Initiative. Enriched by these perspectives, Columbia is identifying and addressing ethical concerns such as inequalities in representation and access. Columbia commits to realizing the promise of precision medicine, transforming the way patients are diagnosed and treated while revolutionizing our understanding of human biology and the relationship between an individual and society. From enabling targeted cancer therapies to understanding and treating complex genetic diseases such as ALS and Alzheimer’s, precision medicine represents a fundamental revolution in healthcare and a new way of thinking about human health. Tom Maniatis Director, Columbia Precision Medicine Initiative Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Ideas and Impact All of Us Program Leaps Forward, Diversifying Precision Medicine Research Learn more Precision Medicine Capturing images to improve CRISPR-based gene editing Learn more Precision Medicine How can we tailor bladder cancer treatments to patients? Learn more Precision Medicine Why do genetic mutations cause disease in some people but not in others? Learn more Precision Medicine Can genomic testing help us better treat kidney disease? Learn more Precision Medicine Will looking beyond genes to proteins help us find new drug targets? Learn more Precision Medicine Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? Learn more Data and Society Precision Medicine Will new methods accelerate the discovery of cancer treatments? Learn more Precision Medicine How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Learn more Precision Medicine Data and Society Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Learn more Precision Medicine Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Learn more Precision Medicine Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? Learn more Precision Medicine Data and Society Will genetic testing help older adults avoid hospitalization? Learn more Precision Medicine How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Learn more Precision Medicine Can hair loss be reversed? Learn more Precision Medicine Can curing rare cancers cure all cancers in one day? Learn more Precision Medicine Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? Learn more Precision Medicine See All Key Facts Make a Gift 100 Percent of pediatric cancer patients at Columbia have their tumors sequenced 19,000 Genes in a single person 1 Day to sequence a person's genome Across Our Campuses How can we capture data to personalize dental care? Learn more Precision Medicine Data and Society Can artificial intelligence find better drug treatments? Learn more Precision Medicine How do we ensure the ethical use of new medical technologies? Learn more Precision Medicine Can B-vitamins ward off the effects of air pollution? Learn more Precision Medicine Can we predict who will develop Parkinson’s disease before symptoms develop? Learn more Precision Medicine Data and Society Will congenital defects become a thing of the past? Learn more Precision Medicine Now that we can alter our genetic code, should we? Learn more Precision Medicine See All | School Directory Wendy Chung Kennedy Family Associate Professor of Pediatrics in Medicine My commitment: Diagnosing and treating rare genetic diseases Precision medicine is an opportunity for all of us who practice medicine to do it even better—to get you the right diagnosis, and the right treatment, more accurately than ever before.. Read More David Goldstein Professor of Genetics and Development; Director, Institute for Genomic Medicine My commitment: Developing the most precise treatment for each patient I started my PhD work in 1990, which was exactly when the Human Genome Project was being designed. Throughout my entire professional life, folks like me have been promising that we are going to transform medicine with genetics.. Read More Brent Stockwell Professor of biological sciences and chemistry My commitment: Discovering powerful new drugs to treat cancer and neurodegenerative diseases There is a crisis now in the pharmaceutical industry. For the past ten to 15 years, the number of new drugs has been declining because it’s becoming harder and harder to create new medicines using the traditional methods.. Read More Andrea Baccarelli Chair and Leon Hess Professor of Environmental Health Sciences My commitment: Realizing the promise of precise prevention to transform public health Every day we are bombarded by an array of health advice, which often creates confusion rather than change. As precision medicine transforms the one-size-fits-all approach to a tailored individual diagnosis and treatment, my role in public health is to apply a similar strategy to the prevention side of healthcare: to target specific communities and vulnerable populations with health strategies to prevent disease before it starts.. Read More Make Your Commitment to Precision Medicine Give Now Go Deeper Key Related Sites Precision Medicine Initiative Institute for Genomic Medicine Zuckerman Institute Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Science Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Stay Informed about Columbia's Commitment to Precision Medicine Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University