Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Forever Orange/Faculty Excellence Program Forever Orange Faculty Excellence Program Partner with us on our greatest academic priorities The hallmark of a great research university is its faculty. Whether in the classroom, research lab, studio or workshop, great professors generate groundbreaking insights. At Syracuse, our world-class scholars expand their students’ intellect, broaden their perspectives, and amplify our impact in shaping future generations of leaders and innovators. Now the Forever Orange Campaign offers donors an opportunity to partner with Syracuse University on our highest academic priorities, to ensure students have access to the most creative, gifted, inspired and inspiring scholars, researchers and teachers. By supporting Faculty Excellence, you strengthen the University’s position and prestige in competing for grants and attracting the best and brightest minds in higher education. Your Forever Orange gift to Faculty Excellence helps Syracuse University recruit visionary researchers, reward and retain influential faculty, nurture and diversify the future professoriate, and recognize the accomplishments of dedicated faculty at all levels. Give rise to the future of Syracuse University and our students by investing in faculty and leadership who will influence student success for generations to come: Endowed Deanship Endowed Department Chair Endowed Professor of Excellence Endowed Professorship Endowed Assistant Professorship Endowed Faculty Fellow You can leave an ongoing legacy through a gift you make today to Faculty Excellence. Gift options support salaries, research and travel funds that enhance interdisciplinary research, teaching and growth in high priority academic areas. Amplify the impact of your gift Through this unique partnership to promote Faculty Excellence, we’ll create special endowments that provide ongoing support of faculty positions. Complete your pledge in 4-5 years, and Syracuse University will contribute 25% of the total cost to endow the position. Complete your pledge within 3 years, and Syracuse University will contribute 33% of the total cost to endow the position. Faculty Excellence drives student success and institutional prominence by fueling discovery, nourishing creativity, and unleashing potential to impact our world for lasting good. Rise to show your support today! To learn more about the Forever Orange Faculty Excellence Program, contact Lynn Vanderhoek, vice president of principal gifts and strategic initiatives, at 315.443.9236 or lavander@syr.edu. In This Section Forever Orange Academic Excellence Faculty Excellence Program An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities “Our desire (is) to bring even greater excellence to Syracuse University, and to produce the kind of talent that will change our world for the better and help humanity in the long run.” —Charles (Charlie) and Carolyn Wheeler ’67 Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top