Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Rafael Yuste The Future of Neuroscience Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Professor of Biological Sciences and Neuroscience; Co-Director, The Kavli Institute for Brain Circuits My commitment: Mapping the impenetrable jungles of the brain If you stop neuroscientists on the street and ask them, "Why don’t we understand how the brain works?" nine times out of 10, they’re going to tell you it’s because it’s very complicated. What is complicated are actually the neural circuits, how the different types of neurons are connected. So the brain could be a big jungle. But that is speaking from ignorance because we still don’t really know how the circuits are connected. I’ve argued that this “jungle” idea prevails because the techniques neuroscientists have been using traditionally look at neurons one at a time. If you’re in a jungle and you look at trees one at a time, well, it’s going to look impenetrable. But if you can lift yourself above the canopy, then you may see how it’s organized. My intuition is that those impenetrable jungles of the brain may be actually quite simple, but we’ve just been looking at them the wrong way. What we need are new methods to observe the activity of entire neural circuits. That's the focus of our work, to record and manipulate the activity of every neuron in a brain. When we first proposed this idea, many people said it was crazy, but the White House endorsed it, and it become The BRAIN Initiative. There are many creative people taking on this challenge, so it’s not completely crazy to think that in 10 years we might have the ability to record the activity of individual neurons non-invasively. In fact, in some cases we’re getting close. In the future, we foresee the systematic mapping of brain activity—at the cellular level—in three dimensions, as a key to truly understanding the brain and mind. Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University