Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will genetic testing help older adults avoid hospitalization? Precision Medicine Dental Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Older adults taking multiple medications experience higher hospitalization rates. Columbia researchers have started uncovering genetic mutations that contribute to this increased risk for hospitalization. Together with colleagues, Joseph Finkelstein, MD, PhD, director of the Center for Bioinformatics and Data Analytics in Oral Health at the Columbia University College of Dental Medicine, conducted a small pilot study to link genes associated with altered drug metabolism or lack of sensitivity to certain drugs and hospitalization. The researchers first identified older adults with these genes who also took multiple medications. By comparing with a control group of seniors who did not possess the genes, they determined that patients with these genes had higher rates of hospitalization. The researchers are planning a larger clinical trial to test these findings as well as imagining potential applications for such pharmacogenetic testing. In dentistry, for example, Finkelstein suggested that such testing could help clinicians develop a personalized approach to pain medication, giving treatment that is most effective and least risky for each patient. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? Can hair loss be reversed? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University