Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Help Us Think and Do the Extraordinary Investing in our success will create economic, societal and intellectual prosperity for all — including you! Powering the Future NC State is proud of its land-grant roots, but being a public university doesn’t mean our only funding comes from the state of North Carolina. It takes the commitment of our entire Pack to help us create dynamic new approaches to teaching and learning, fuel industries and breakthroughs, and guide our students to impactful post-graduate lives. Lives that will one day lead communities, companies and more — there’s no limit to what you can think and do as an NC State graduate. If you’ve never given to our university, or if you’re simply considering your next philanthropic outreach, there’s never been a better time to get involved. Our new Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative is making it easier than ever to create a scholarship fund by matching gifts of $50,000 or more dollar for dollar. Donors can impact students in need much faster than was previously possible while also honoring the memory of a loved one, commemorating an influential mentor or building their own legacy of giving. Giving to an existing scholarship or fellowship is equally important, helping countless students learn, grow and succeed while studying on our campus. New distinguished professorships are also helping us recruit and retain even more of the world’s most talented faculty members. Over 100 have been created in the last five years alone, enabling NC State to provide its professors and researchers with the cutting-edge tools they need to educate and innovate like never before. Private support has also helped raise two new buildings on campus — Fitts-Woolard Hall, named for two of the lead gift-makers, and the Plant Sciences Building — for them to use. Giving to NC State doesn’t need to be a purely academic endeavor, though. Many of our students face food shortages, housing insecurities, a lack of technology access and more while pursuing their degrees. The needs are many, but, thankfully, so are the donors who are willing to help their fellow Pack members think and do the extraordinary. Wherever and however you decide to give, please know that you are making a difference in lives all across NC State and helping shape our university, state, nation and world for the better. Go Pack! Historic Fundraising Campaign Comes to an Extraordinary End NC State’s Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign saw over 1,300 new scholarships and fellowships endowed, 104 distinguished professorships created and much, much more. Learn more Why Give NC State is on an upward trajectory. The work we do here matters, and it requires resources greater than those provided through state appropriations. Your philanthropy powers our vision. Learn more ‘Think and Do’ In Review After five years, NC State’s historic Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign has come to a close. Here are 17 stories of the extraordinary difference this fundraising effort has helped fuel. Learn more Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.