Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Students Inspire MTV's Spotlight on Maternal Mortality Just Societies International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel “I watched it, went into shock, and then cried,” said Justine LaVoye '19SIPA on seeing a close-to-final cut of an emotional video campaign on maternal mortality run by MTV—and inspired by her and two students' class project. Adjunct professor Stephen Friedman taught a course in fall 2018 on public awareness campaigns with social impact at the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). Three of his students—LaVoye, Jenise Ogle ’19SIPA, and Maria José Diaz ’19SIPA—pitched a powerful campaign idea to tackle what Harvard Public Health called “a human rights crisis." Over the past two decades, the US maternal mortality rate has more than doubled, said the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Even more staggering is the disparity between white and black mothers. Black women are three to four times more likely to experience a pregnancy-related death than white women, the CDC recently reported. The students' campaign idea sought to teach mothers, especially black mothers, some of the causes of pregnancy-related deaths—as well as how mothers and their support systems can get help. Students looked to pop culture icons that blended cinematic storytelling and social activism, such as Childish Gambino's "This is America," as inspiration. To emotionally connect the crisis to viewers, the students pitched telling the story of a fictional black woman's journey through pregnancy with two endings. The first ends with her tragic death, though the second, thanks to timely interventions whenever she's unwell, shows her and her baby healthy. As the former president of MTV, Friedman was so taken with the students' idea that he spoke with his successor at MTV about their pitch. The network took up this critical issue, eagerly turning the students' concept into a reality as part of a "Save Our Moms" campaign. “I hope a lot of people see it and we can improve the community responsibility with women’s maternal health,” said Diaz. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can students inform NYC's urban agriculture policies? Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University