Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home What does poverty do to kids’ brains? The Future of Neuroscience Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia researcher Kimberly Noble is uncovering how poverty affects children’s brains. Using MRI, she and her colleagues have identified key differences between those with higher family incomes and more parental education and those with lower incomes and less educated parents. Noble found that wealthier children had larger surface areas, particularly in the brain regions associated with language and executive functioning. These children also possess a greater brain volume in the frontal lobe, temporal lobe, and hippocampus—the areas of the brain strongly associated with executive function. Even the brains of children of poor parents who were highly educated showed these differences, meaning that poverty itself was sufficient to impede brain development. Noble’s work illustrates that slight disparities in family income make for large differences in brain development. When poorer families experience small increases in income, the children’s brains show strong signs of growth. And when family income falls below a certain level, so too does children’s brain development: children from families making less than $25,000 possess six percent less brain surface than children in families making $150,000 or more. These studies hold significant implications for health and education policy. By working to move families out of poverty, we could support children’s developing brains. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can nanotechnology map the human brain? Unpacking the "Aha!" moment to make better split-second decisions How can brain scans help treat and prevent PTSD? Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University