Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Zainab Bahrani Arts and Ideas Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Edith Porada Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Art and Archaeology My commitment: Preserving historical artifacts to protect cultural heritage threatened by war Given the ravages of war faced by Iraq, the condition of its cultural heritage may seem a trivial matter. But as a historian of antiquity, I am painfully aware of the extensive damage done to the region’s identity by the destruction of its heritage. It is not only the artifacts that are lost, stolen, and destroyed. The loss of this data is the loss of the ancient history of this land. It is crucial to document remaining cultural heritage before it’s too late. My work with Mapping Mesopotamian Monuments catalogs Mesopotamia’s historical landscape and creates a digital foundation for future preservation work, so these important histories are not wiped out. This documentation spans monuments and historical architecture—everything from ancient Assyrian archaeological sites and carved cliff faces to early Christian churches, Islamic and Ottoman mosques, shrines, statues, and tombs. This goes beyond academia and directly affects human rights and lives through protecting the region’s cultural heritage. Keep up with Columbia Arts: @Columbia_arts Ideas and Impact How can art inspire hope during wartime? Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Creating art for all in New York City's subways See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University