Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can we erase painful memories while keeping others intact? Photo Credit: Schacher Lab/Columbia University Medical Center The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel At Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) and McGill University, a new study found that different memory types stored in the same neuron of the marine snail Aplysia can be erased. This finding suggests drugs may soon be developed that delete memories triggering anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) without affecting other important memories. During traumatic events, several memories can be encoded, including incidental details of the event. Yet these details can still trigger anxiety. “If you are walking in a high-crime area and you take a shortcut through a dark alley and get mugged, and then you happen to see a mailbox nearby, you might get really nervous when you want to mail something later on,” says Samuel Schacher, professor of neuroscience at CUIMC. Fear of dark alleys is an associative memory; it gives you important information—avoid dark alleys. Fear of mailboxes is an incidental, non-associative memory. Researchers are trying to isolate such non-associative memories without harming associative memories that help us make informed decisions. Columbia researchers found that one form of a protein kinase M (PKM) molecule strengthened the snail’s associative memory, while another form strengthened non-associative memory. In blocking one of the PKM molecules, each memory—associative and non-associative—could be erased without affecting the other. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University