About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give UT for Me The Michael & Susan Dell Foundation creates a support system for student success. What starts here is only the beginning. In January 2020, The University of Texas at Austin and the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation launched UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars. It’s a world-changing $100 million investment to help UT students with significant financial need succeed. Through UT for Me, all Pell-eligible Longhorns receive personalized support throughout their time at UT Austin, helping them stay on track toward graduation. In addition to providing participating students with a laptop and a textbook credit, the program serves as a one-stop resource center and support system, helping students connect with university resources and programs to fit their individual needs. Neer Jain, a student in the McCombs School of Business, says UT for Me provided him with a ready-made network. “One of the things I was craving as I entered UT was a community feeling,” says Jain. “The community that came along with UT for Me was a game-changer.” After the COVID-19 pandemic meant a year of virtual learning for accounting major Kim-San Ngo, UT for Me made a difference. “The biggest support is just knowing that people are there,” says Ngo. “Transitioning to college is hard enough as it is. I had a lot of questions and emotions that I didn’t know what to do with and it felt very nice to have people supporting me.” This video is part of World-Changing Gifts, a series highlighting the impact of transformational investments made during UT’s What Starts Here fundraising campaign. Stories of Impact More Stories Heroes in the Making Thanks to the generosity of donors, Forty Acres Scholars and future nurses learn to change the world, one patient at a time. Breaking New Ground in Energy A gift from Gary L. Thomas supports UT Austin’s reputation as a global leader in energy education. Paying Dividends McCombs graduate Phil Canfield and wife Mary Beth support UT’s Canfield Business Honors Program with student scholarships, keeping enterprising minds on the Forty Acres. giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback