Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Job Opportunities Job Opportunities Join Our Winning Development Team! Syracuse University is looking for articulate, persuasive, and highly motivated individuals to fill a variety of development officer positions. These positions are ideal for fundraising professionals who are enthusiastic group leaders, strategic thinkers, and exceptional communicators, and who have an appreciation for working in a comprehensive teaching and research setting. Visit sujobopps.com for information on job openings. Why Syracuse University? Competitive salary and outstanding benefits make working for Syracuse University a rewarding experience. Benefits include an in-house professional development program, remitted tuition, dependency scholarships, four weeks of vacation, health and dental insurance, and one of the most generous tax-deferred 403(b) retirement plans. Why Syracuse, New York? Syracuse is a mid-sized city with a metro-area population of approximately 500,000, and is situated in the geographic center of New York State, about 250 miles northwest of New York City. The Syracuse area offers many social, cultural, and recreational options, including parks, museums, festivals, professional regional theater, and numerous malls and movie theaters. Syracuse and Central New York also present a wide range of seasonal recreation and attractions, ranging from water and snow skiing to hiking in the Adirondacks to touring the historic sites and wineries along the Finger Lakes. According to the latest edition of the Places Rated Almanac, Syracuse ranks in the top 10% of “Best Places to Live.” To search all open positions and apply online, go to sujobopps.com. Cover letter, resume, and a list of professional references must be attached with your online application. Search Jobs Now Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top