Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? Modern rendering of students and faculty of King's College, New York (earlier name of Columbia University), in academic dress circa 1754. Image Credit: Columbia University Archives Just Societies Columbia College Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Slavery’s historical links to Columbia are dug up in Columbia University & Slavery, a website faculty, students, and staff launched in 2016. Their research shows how the institution of human bondage, as well as the abolitionists it rallied in opposition, crept like ivy into Columbia’s history from the founding of King’s College in 1754 to the end of the Civil War. Weathered, colonial-era newspaper ads selling slaves illustrate Columbia’s near-forgotten complicities, and how this past motivates Columba’s address of injustices today. The project came about after a spring 2015 undergraduate research seminar taught by Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Eric Foner about slavery in Columbia’s early history. First-person slave accounts are rare, most documents referring to slaves as numbers or not at all, as the project still stitches together this neglected part of the University’s history. The prevalence of household slavery in the lives of administrators, faculty, and students of King’s College and early Columbia College surprised even Foner, as he learned alongside his students. Between 1754 and the end of the Civil War, at least half of the ten male Columbia presidents owned slaves at least once, and most students came from families with slaves in their homes. Students presented their research to President Bollinger at the end of the semester, and Foner launched Columbia University & Slavery in fall of 2016. “We hope that this website, very much a work in progress, will contribute to public understanding of the key role slavery has played in our nation’s history and offer an example to other institutions of higher learning as they pursue their own investigations,” said Foner. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University