Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Precision Medicine Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Scientists at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and Duke University used exome sequencing to diagnose and treat a 20-month-old girl suffering from a progressive and usually fatal neurodegenerative disease. At 15 months, she started developing symptoms such as gait abnormalities, upper body weakness, and vision problems. Doctors suspected an autoimmune disorder but had no way of diagnosing her condition, and they referred her for genetic testing. Sequencing her exome—the protein-coding portion of her DNA—revealed she had mutations in both copies of a particular gene, causing severe riboflavin (vitamin B12) deficiency. The deficiency led to Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere Syndrome 2, a rare, life-threatening disease. Doctors began treating the patient with oral doses of vitamin B12, and she quickly improved. Now, at age three, she can run, hold her head up, and lift objects with her hands and arms. Her symptoms show no signs of returning. Learn More. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can hair loss be reversed? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University