Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Data and Society Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In 2014, when Sona Shah ’16SEAS and Teresa Cauvel ’16SEAS began Columbia’s biomedical engineering master’s program, the rate of newborn deaths in Uganda was about 19 per 1,000 births. In the US, that rate is six per 1,000. Shah and Cauvel learned about newborn deaths in low-resource countries when visiting Uganda as students. They noticed insufficient staff and limited equipment led to inadequate newborn care. Two nurses may monitor up to 150 babies at once, and a newborn may die before a nurse can intervene. Responding to infant mortality, Shah and Cauvel started Neopenda, a health tech company creating low-cost, wearable monitors that measure a newborn’s vital signs to help at-risk babies survive. Fitted into a baby hat, Neopenda’s low-powered and Bluetooth-enabled device requires no Internet access, sending data wirelessly to a hospital unit’s tablet computer. Nurses and doctors can monitor up to 24 babies at once, determining more quickly who needs help the most. Creating a product with and for users, Shah and Cauvel visited four Ugandan cities and nine hospitals, public and private, when designing their device. The tech entrepreneurs continue to collaborate with healthcare professionals in Uganda from their base in Chicago. Next on Shah and Cauvel’s to-do list: make the monitor smaller, find a manufacturer, and expand Neopenda to other countries grappling with infant mortality. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Is digital anonymity an illusion? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University