Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why Our Planet is a Breeding Ground for Emerging Diseases COVID-19 Recovery Climate Response Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Rapid human population growth and the wide-reaching impact of climate change have contributed to a decades-long rise in new infectious diseases, say Columbia researchers. A Columbia study found in 2008, over a decade before the COVID-19 pandemic, that 335 new infectious diseases emerged between 1960 and 2004 alone. The majority of these surfacing diseases came from viruses or bacteria that spread from animals to people. The study warned such “spillover” events are happening more often. Yet this uptick, which began in the late twentieth century, arrived after a short-lived, optimistic period post-World War II. Many public-health officials in the US then argued that infectious diseases would be problems of the past. They did not predict humans would stretch the planet’s limits, creating conditions ripe for diseases to leap from animals to people. “As people move into previously undeveloped habitats, wild animals are being crowded into smaller areas and are mixing with people more,” says coauthor Marc Levy, a geospatial data expert at Columbia’s Earth Institute. Many other factors are contributing to the emergence of novel diseases, says W. Ian Lipkin, professor of epidemiology and the director of the Center for Infection and Immunity at Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health. He points to climate change, which is shifting the habitats of wild animals, leading many to migrate to populated areas; and the growth of megacities in the developing world, where poor sanitation heightens people’s risk of contracting insect-borne diseases. “In recent years, all of these elements have been in play,” said Lipkin. “It’s a perfect storm.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can COVID-19 teach us about climate change? Tool Developed at Columbia Tracks COVID-19 as New York’s Lockdown Eases Columbia AIDS researchers pivot to treatments for COVID-19 and future pandemics How can climate scientists help the world better prepare for epidemics? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University