Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? Just Societies Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel When the State Department's 2017 travel ban delayed visa applications, Columbia Law students and Professor Bernard Harcourt helped a graduate student from Libya enter the US to go to Columbia. Moseb Zeiton, a citizen of Libya and the United Kingdom, planned to arrive in New York from London to start his master's program at the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). But the US Embassy in London said his visa application to study was held up due to so-called administrative processing. Zeiton called Harcourt after reading how the professor persuaded the US government to reinstate a visa for Amer Al Homssi, a Syrian doctor stranded abroad while trying to return to Chicago when the Trump administration's travel ban took effect. To take on Zeiton's case, Harcourt enlisted students in his Legal Methods course to serve as co-counsel and learn about the law in real-time. The lawyers, including Harcourt's students, argued for Zeiton's visa eligibility as well as rallied US Senators Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand to pressure the State Department into granting Zeiton entry. On September 8, 2017, Zeiton learned the good news that his visa was issued. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? Can a student once in prison support formerly incarcerated scholars like her? Helping veterans transition from combat to classroom See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University