Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Play Video Senior Campaign A tradition since 1912, the Senior Campaign invites members of our graduating class to support an area of NC State's campus most meaningful for them. What It Means to Wear the Cord Graduating seniors who make a gift of at least $20.22 to NC State by April 22 are awarded a set of philanthropy cords to wear during commencement, recognizing their commitment to serving their peers and giving back to the Pack. These philanthropy cords show that you are deeply dedicated to making a difference and contributing to the enhancement of our extraordinary university. Pickup for philanthropy cords will be held at Park Alumni Center on April 27-29 between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. Why Give? You've been impacted by private giving. Philanthropy makes a lasting impact on every area of campus. No matter your major or extracurricular activities, your time as part of the Pack was made possible by previous seniors’ gifts. You choose what your gift supports. You have the opportunity to make your mark to the area of the university most meaningful to you — such as your college, the Libraries, Arts NC State, study abroad, scholarships or anywhere else. Tuition doesn't cover everything. With tuition only covering about a third of the real cost of an undergraduate education, NC State counts on private support. These gifts help close the gap between what each student pays in tuition and fees, and the actual cost of an NC State education, which helps the university maintain its reputation as a best value. Increase NC State's ranking in the U.S. News & World Report. Did you know donor participation has an effect on the rankings for top universities? The more people who give back to NC State, the better it ranks and the more valuable your degree becomes. Join the Senior Campaign "As we get ready for this next chapter in our lives, I am already looking forward to all of the opportunities that will allow me to continue my connection here as an alumnus. That’s why I am excited to make my senior campaign gift: I am continuing to build my legacy at NC State and invest in the future of the Pack." — Dylan Inman ’22 Join Dylan in giving back Questions? Want to get involved? Email us Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.