Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can architecture respond to climate change? Climate Response Architecture, Planning & Preservation Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia’s Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation (GSAPP) is reimagining what cities can be, how they can serve citizens for the greater good, and how they can proactively respond to climate change. Students in GSAPP’s Urban Design Program learn to combine social justice and cities as ecological systems to create urban designs for a sustainable future. Over three semesters, Urban Design students explore architectural design as a tool for problem-solving and cities as living laboratories. New York City is the first case study, and the second semester expands research to other American cities while the final semester explores growing cities in Asia, Africa, and South America. With Studio X, GSAPP's international design lab, and the Columbia Global Center in Amman, Jordan, students studied how agriculture in the Jordan River Valley and industry and tourism in the Dead Sea region impact Amman’s water footprint. Kate Orff, associate professor and director of the Urban Design Program, will complete her Oyster-tecture project in 2019. Oyster-tecture is Orff's plan to bring oysters back to New York Harbor, where they can filter water and form reefs to buffer against storm surges like those from Hurricane Sandy. The project will also create bays to host finfish, shellfish, and lobsters while reducing erosion. “We try to teach our students not only design-thinking methods, but also how to apply these skills directly,” said Orff. “They learn how to improve people’s everyday lives through sustainable, interconnected systems—housing, mobility, landscape, affordability, and access.” Learn more and see Columbia Magazine coverage. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University