Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can climate scientists help the world better prepare for epidemics? Climate Response Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Many diseases are spread by parasites such as ticks and mosquitoes, whose populations vary greatly depending on climate. Columbia’s International Research Institute for Climate and Society is leveraging climate data, patterns, and trends to monitor and predict epidemics for better response and treatment. Vector-borne diseases are illnesses spread by pathogens and parasites. Each year more than 1 billion cases and over 1 million deaths result worldwide from such diseases, which include malaria, dengue, Zika, and yellow fever. Temperature drives the rate at which parasites and pathogens develop, and rainfall often supports sites where parasites breed. The World Health Organization (WHO) recently identified 14 climate-sensitive communicable diseases as candidates for climate-informed early warning systems. IRI is working with WHO as a Collaborating Centre on Early Warning Systems for Malaria and other Climate Sensitive Diseases. IRI works at the local levels, educating and training public health professionals on the relationship between climate and health. They are also developing tools to better monitor and predict disease epidemics. “If you are down in the weeds as a malaria, dengue, or Zika control person, you are really largely dealing in the timeframe of climate variability,” said Madeleine Thomson, director of the IRI/PAHO-WHO Collaborating Centre. “…policy makers still need to be aware of what the longer-term trends might be so they can build the institutional capacity needed to respond effectively down the line.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? How can we safely reduce toxic byproducts of steel and iron production? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? Can we design more efficient solar cells? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University