Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can the Committee on Global Thought originate new ways of research and teaching about the 21st century world? Global Solutions Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Committee on Global Thought (CGT), established by President Lee Bollinger in 2006, is a group of thirty faculty members from across the university engaged in creating new interdisciplinary and transnational approaches to researching and teaching about the world today. CGT signature research projects include Global Money and Global Cities. A new project, Thoughts on a Changing World, asks what kind of a world we have, what kind of a world we want, and what we can do to bring it about. With participants from universities, government, business, journalism, and civil society, the project is multi-disciplinary, public, and genuinely global. It was launched in the spring of 2017 with a seven-hour virtual global think-in between panels in New York and at the nine Columbia Global Centers, from Beijing to Santiago. CGT pedagogical innovations include the new Master’s in Global Thought that draws students from around the world as well as an undergraduate initiative with new border-crossing courses and experiential learning in Global New York. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can Columbia World Projects further mobilize Columbia’s strengths to solve problems? Can door-to-door testing turn the tide of the AIDS epidemic? Will long-form reporting shape our understanding of global issues? How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? How can a Global Center's Innovation Hub encourage partnership? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University