Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Giving Ithaca Campus Donors give over $12 million to support students in just 24 hours Students celebrate Giving Day in Willard Straight Hall Photo Credit: Sreang "C" Hok By Kaitlin Provost March 21, 2022 Thousands of donors participated in the eighth Cornell Giving Day on March 16. Throughout the day, 15,905 alumni, students, faculty, staff, parents, and friends from over 80 countries made gifts totaling a record-breaking $12,268,629. “The thousands of gifts made on Giving Day will help Cornell continue to do the greatest good for our students, and in the world,” says Fred Van Sickle, vice president for Alumni Affairs and Development (AAD). “We’re thrilled that so many Cornell alumni, parents, students, faculty, staff, and friends chose to come together to make such an incredible difference in just 24 hours.” Giving Day 2022 broke several additional records—with the most funds donors could support on any Cornell Giving Day (over 500), and $1.6 million in gift matches and challenge funds, which increased the impact of donors’ gifts across the university. “So many alumni were happy to talk about their experiences and share their stories with me around Giving Day,” says Sage Printup ’22, a student ambassador in Cornell’s Student Engagement Center. “One woman told me that she usually makes her annual gift at the end of the year, but after learning about all of the matching that occurs during Giving Day, she decided to change that to increase her impact!” Gift challenges for students and young alumni secured an extra $50,000 toward undergraduate scholarships, and students in the Classes of 2022 and 2023 made the most gifts of all Cornell classes. Over 800 international donors from Kenya to Japan to Australia helped secure challenge funds for Global Cornell, given by members of the Cornell Asia Alumni Leadership Advisors (CAALA) and the Cornell China Alumni Advisory Board (C-CAAB). I want others to have the life-changing experience that I did at Cornell. Participating in Giving Day is my contribution toward making that happen. —Terri Denison '84 Alumni and students celebrate Giving Day and the tenth anniversary of Cornell Tech at the Cornell Club in NYC – Photo credit: Jess Campitiello Several in-person events inspired the campus community to join in the day’s Big Red spirit. The university eased some mask mandates beginning March 14, increasing the excitement many felt at gathering to celebrate. Students learned about the importance of philanthropy while enjoying snacks and ice cream, and wrote thank you postcards to donors. Alumni and students also gathered in NYC to celebrate Giving Day, while toasting to the tenth anniversary of Cornell Tech. More than 160 student and alumni volunteers also served as Giving Day Champions, fundraising for areas of the university they care about and asking their peers to make gifts. Donors gave to scholarships, program funds, student teams, and more. “I want others to have the life-changing experience that I did at Cornell,” says volunteer Terri Denison ’84. “Participating in Giving Day is my contribution toward making that happen. This year, I again championed our local alumni club’s scholarship fund. I desire so much for others to have the Cornell experience, regardless of their financial situation and without dread of insurmountable student debt when they graduate.” Students write thank you notes to donors on Giving Day, in Willard Straight Hall – Photo credit: Sreang “C” Hok Related stories $5M endowment gift supports student access $5M endowment gift supports student access May 26, 2022 $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships May 2, 2022 Major gift endows Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in AAP Major gift endows Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in AAP April 19, 2022 The campaign for Cornell University Cornellians everywhere are joining together to make a lasting difference for the world. Learn how you can help to do the greatest good. Get started Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022