Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can curing rare cancers cure all cancers in one day? Precision Medicine Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Oncologist Gary Schwartz and his team at Columbia University Medical Center are investigating a cure for sarcomas, a rare cancer of connective tissue with over 50 types afflicting about 13,000 Americans annually. Treating such atypical cancers, the team strives to rid people of all cancers one day. “A cure in sarcoma will lead to cures in the more common cancers,” said Dr. Schwartz. “That’s the vision of what we are doing here at Columbia.” Schwartz specializes in immunotherapy, which harnesses a patient’s own immune system to fight cancer cells. While his team has made significant progress in cancer research, recent federal funding cuts mean philanthropy has become a more critical source of support. “When a patient comes in smiling and says, ‘I’ve never felt better,’ and I can tell them that their tumor is going away, there’s nothing more satisfying to me,” said Schwartz. Support this Program Learn More Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Can hair loss be reversed? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University