Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? Precision Medicine Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A new gene-editing technique holds the potential to revolutionize how inheritable diseases are treated by allowing physicians to correct mutations quickly. CRISPR, or “clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats,” adapts a bacterial defense mechanism of identifying and disabling DNA and uses it to fix genetic “typos.” Stephen Tsang, the László Z. Bitó Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, Pathology, and Cell Biology at Columbia University Medical Center, along with other ophthalmologists from Columbia and the University of Iowa, used this technique to repair a genetic flaw that causes a condition that produces tunnel vision or complete blindness. The researchers have already successfully modified stem cells from the skin of a person suffering from the condition. If the FDA approves the procedure, investigators would inject the corrected stem cells into a patient’s retina. Their hypothesis is that the stem cells will grow into healthy tissue, restoring the person’s vision. Learn More. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Can hair loss be reversed? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University