Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Facilities/Schine Student Center Schine Student Center The transformed Hildegarde and J. Myer Schine Student Center is a welcoming, inclusive and fully accessible gathering place designed to further enhance the student experience. A cornerstone of Syracuse University’s Campus Framework, the center’s renovation creates an open and inviting atmosphere housing our diverse cultural centers and the offices of Student Activities and Student Centers and Programming Services, and providing a more visible location for our student organizations. With a lively two-floor atrium, new seating options for the dining area and other modern amenities, the center will serve as the hub of student life at Syracuse University. Designed to foster greater student engagement, interaction and collaboration, these enhancements will spark opportunities for students to get involved in campus activities, develop their leadership skills, study in a relaxing environment and socialize. The renovated Hildegarde and J. Myer Schine Student Center will: Promote connectivity through the openness of a two-floor atrium; Strengthen the appeal of the building as the central location of student activity with new programs and extended hours; Create opportunities for promoting identity and collaboration by bringing the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Disability Cultural Center and the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Resource Center together in one location; and Enhance the visibility of student organizations and the Office of Student Activities. For more information about naming opportunities and other ways to support the Hildegarde and J. Myer Schine Student Center renovation, email giving@syr.edu or contact Karen Spear, executive director of regional advancement, at 315.443.2410, or Colleen Bench, associate vice president, parent engagement and student experience at 315.443.2372. Photo Gallery Click on image to view full size. In This Section Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top