Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Our Commitment to The Future of Neuroscience Why? The Challenge Our Commitment Understanding the brain holds tremendous potential to transform human health and society. In the foreseeable future, millions of lives will be saved or improved with new treatments for disorders like Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. Insights into the brain and its links to behavior will lead to innovation and advances in countless disciplines, from economics and philosophy to artificial intelligence and social policy. How do we think, feel, and move, sense our surroundings, control our emotions, and make difficult decisions? Columbians are answering these and other vital questions through interdisciplinary collaborations that bring together extraordinary scientists, scholars, and clinicians, building the future of neuroscience. The human brain is the most complex object in the known universe, with 100 billion neurons, each connected in turn to 10,000 other neurons—resulting in trillions of connections. Only in the last 30 years have we achieved the technological capacity to map this intricate web, gaining new insight into the brain’s architecture and mechanics. We need to draw on an understanding of all forms of human knowledge and activity to unlock the complexity of brain and mind. And conveying clear understanding to our students as future leaders in all fields and to the broader public is an essential aspect of our mission. So much remains to be discovered. Treatments for brain-related disorders like autism, depression, and schizophrenia. How we learn and how we remember. What drives decision-making. The nature of perception and creativity. How we develop consciousness. How we connect these and other dimensions into a deeper understanding of what it means to be human. No one discipline can encompass the immense complexity of the brain and mind. So Columbia is creating the most comprehensive brain science community in the world. From the interdisciplinary Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute to the Columbia University Medical Center, scientists and clinicians are using state-of-the-art imaging tools and computational power—all with the goal of revolutionizing our understanding of brain and mind and developing much-needed treatments for brain-related disorders. Together, students and faculty in the social sciences, humanities, arts, economics, law, and engineering are developing new insights into the nature of thinking, acting, and being. The Future of Neuroscience commits to this comprehensive effort at Columbia, supporting the complex technologies and University-wide collaborations required to heal—and reveal—the human brain. Just as science in the 20th century was transformed by the discovery of DNA, so science and medicine in the 21st century will be transformed as we unlock the mysteries of the mind, paving the way to greater brain health and greater understanding of what it means to be human. Eric Kandel, MD Kavli Professor of Brain Science; Co-Director, Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Ideas and Impact Can the way you drive reveal early signs of dementia? Learn more Data and Society The Future of Neuroscience How can research opportunities bring more women to the field of neuroscience? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Why should you try something new every day? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Mapping MS to reveal potential avenues for treatment Learn more The Future of Neuroscience New insights into Alzheimer’s tangles Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Income drops may hurt brain health Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Revolutionary microscope captures biology at the speed of life Learn more The Future of Neuroscience An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Arts and Ideas How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Can we erase painful memories while keeping others intact? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will a chip reverse blindness? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Can light therapy and sleep regulation rapidly treat depression? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience See All Key Facts Make a Gift 789 Billion dollars spent annually on nine common neurological diseases in the US 2,500+ Columbia researchers and clinicians working to understand and treat the brain and mind 1st FDA-approved treatment for spinal muscular atrophy, a genetic neurodegenerative disorder, administered at CUMC Across Our Campuses Can visual metaphors deepen public understanding of the brain? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Closing the alcohol gateway to cocaine Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Unpacking the "Aha!" moment to make better split-second decisions Learn more The Future of Neuroscience How can we help Parkinson's patients avoid falls? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience What does poverty do to kids’ brains? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Can nanotechnology map the human brain? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience How can brain scans help treat and prevent PTSD? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Will Googling help us think better? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Can a Wellness Center improve the health of Columbia's neighbors? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience See All | School Directory Rudy Behnia Assistant professor of neuroscience My commitment: Uncovering how our brain sees the world around us It’s hard to imagine a world where we can’t see motion, shapes, and color, where we can’t have a representation of the physical world in our heads.. Read More Michael Shadlen Professor of neuroscience My commitment: Revealing the underpinnings of normal and abnormal thought processes, thereby exposing the causes of cognitive disorders such as schizophrenia and dementia I study the brain’s parietal cortex, which when damaged by injury or illness, can impair higher brain functions, such as knowing what objects are for, understanding numbers, and planning action.. Read More Neil Shneider Associate Professor of Neurology; Director, Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center; and Director, ALSA Clinical Program My commitment: Understanding the mechanisms that cause ALS and identifying targets for drug discovery More than seventy-five years after Lou Gehrig died from ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), we still don’t know what causes the majority of cases, and no medication is available to treat this devastating disease.. Read More Rafael Yuste Professor of Biological Sciences and Neuroscience; Co-Director, The Kavli Institute for Brain Circuits My commitment: Mapping the impenetrable jungles of the brain If you stop neuroscientists on the street and ask them, "Why don’t we understand how the brain works?" nine times out of 10, they’re going to tell you it’s because it’s very complicated.. Read More Make Your Commitment to the Future of Neuroscience Give Now Go Deeper Key Related Sites Zuckerman Institute Neuroscience Neurology Psychiatry Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Stay Informed about Columbia's Commitment to the Future of Neuroscience Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University