Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Two men who were formerly in prison create graphic art. Just Societies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Plato’s Republic begins with a question: what is justice? Through the Justice-in-Education Initiative, Columbia faculty and students now look for answers well beyond the theoretical, teaching currently or formerly incarcerated students. Justice-in-Education, supported by a three-year grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, works to reopen doors and change public conversations about incarceration by educating current and former prisoners. In a country with five percent of the world’s population yet 25 percent of the world’s prisoners, a college education can reduce recidivism by as much as 40 percent, making a dramatic difference in another’s life. Eileen Gillooly, executive director of the Heyman Center for the Humanities, developed the Initiative with Geraldine Downey, a psychologist and director of the Center for Justice, home of Justice-in-Education. Professors and students with the Initiative teach at New York City’s Rikers Island jail and state prisons like Taconic and Sing Sing; they also offer a summer program at the Morningside campus. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University