Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? In 2006-2010, an unprecedented drought (brown areas) spread across much of Turkey, Syria and Iraq—the so-called Fertile Crescent. In part due to unsustainable farming practices and government mismanagement, Syria was especially vulnerable to its effects. Image Credit: NASA Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Climate change, already linked to rising global temperatures, may also play a part in social tensions boiling over. A new study says that unprecedented drought in Syria added more fuel to societal stressors that led to uprising in 2011. As the drought destroyed agriculture, it led farm families to migrate to cities while driving up food prices. This influx of people added to the stress already of refugees pouring into Syria from the war in Iraq. Since then, the conflict has clearly developed into a major, protracted civil war with ongoing international involvement. “Climate change is very much a cause of concern for national, regional, and international security. The Syrian war has now taken on a life of its own…however, a drought made worse by climate change was one important factor that initiated the social unraveling, ” said Richard Seager, a climate scientist at Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory who co-authored the study. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has predicted that climate change will only continue making the Middle East drier. On a much smaller scale, climate change has already led to disputes over water rights in northern and southern California. Impending droughts could well lead to more conflicts. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? Can we design more efficient solar cells? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Interviewing the reef—a new kind of environmental journalism? How can we incentivize climate-conscious behavior? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University