Skip to main content My Giving History (external link) Contact Us Make a Gift (external link) Stanford Giving Menu Areas to Support Why Give How to Make a Gift Give Now Online (external link) Phone or mail Stocks, securities, or wire transfers Matching gifts International gifts The Stanford Fund Reunion campaigns Give Over Time New pledge (external link) Make a pledge payment (external link) Give a recurring gift (external link) Plan Your Gift Planned Giving overview Meet the team Bequests and estate plan gifts Life income gifts Donor advised funds Give assets All the ways to make a gift Give through The Stanford Fund to support undergrads. About The Stanford Fund Get Involved Donor Communities Stanford Loyal Stanford Fund Leadership Giving Founding Grant Society Founders’ Circle Honor rolls (external link) All donor communities Give With Your Class Seniors for The Stanford Fund Dollars for Doers Challenge Undergrad reunion campaigns Business School reunion (external link) Law School reunion (external link) Other Ways to Get Involved Ways to volunteer Stanford Fund volunteers Reunion volunteers Stanford Alumni Association (external link) Outreach Volunteer Alumni Link (OVAL) (external link) Join our community of loyal supporters by giving each year. Be Stanford Loyal About Office of Development Get to know us Contact us Careers About Giving Gift policies About endowed giving Frequently asked questions Stories We’re here to help you make your biggest impact. Connect with the giving teamSearch this site Giving to Stanford When you give to Stanford, you drive positive change in the world. Discover why giving matters The Stanford Fund Make a difference in the life of a student. Securities and transfers Make a gift of stock or other securities. Areas to Support Explore opportunities to support the Stanford community. Buck/Cardinal Club Support today’s student-athletes and tomorrow’s leaders. Contact Us Find the right person to talk to. Planned Giving Achieve your philanthropic and financial goals. Why I give “Stanford is making a bold, actionable, and enduring commitment to tackle humanity’s greatest challenge, and we have deep conviction in its ambition and abilities.” John and Ann Doerr Read the latest stories Historic gift establishes the Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability Stanford's first new school in 70 years will accelerate solutions to global climate crisis. A gift to combat neurodegeneration Philip, MBA ’62, and Penny Knight invest in a new initiative on brain resilience to inspire new discoveries in brain aging and resilience and usher in a new era for brain science and health. Foundational gift will benefit human health Stanford ChEM-H renamed Sarafan ChEM-H in recognition of gift from university trustee Lily Sarafan, ’03, MA ’03. Helping Underrepresented Students Excel in STEM New matching program magnifies reunion gift to provide multiple scholarships Fans and former student-athletes rally to support varsity sports To ensure a future for all 36 varsity sports programs, donors are stepping forward to provide long-term sources of funding. Bob and Dottie King honored with Uncommon Citizen award Longtime volunteers and philanthropists, the Kings have transformed Stanford’s work on global development and other priorities. Gift launches new Center for Pediatric IBD and Celiac Disease Stanford Children's Hospital researchers now able to offer more treatments for young patients suffering from gastrointestinal diseases See all stories Make your gift Supporting students, fueling groundbreaking research, advancing solutions to societal challenges—your gifts to Stanford drive positive change in the world. Give now (external link) Links to more information Support your cause. Explore giving stories. Talk to a staff member. Stanford Giving Need to get in touch? P.O. Box 20466Stanford, CA 94309-0466(650) 724-0627 Talk to the team About Office of Development Office of External Relations (external link) Alumni Association (external link) Careers Make a gift Give now (external link) Gift policies How to make a gift Request help with your gift (external link) FAQs Tax ID 94-1156365 Information for … Advisors Alumni Alumni in reunion Institutional funders (external link) International donors Parents and families Students Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Close Hi, what can we help you find today? Uh oh, it looks like nothing was submitted. Please enter your search terms above and hit enter or click the search icon. Consider browsing by category: Popular topics How to make a gift Talk to the team Planned giving Stocks, securities, or wire transfers Frequently asked questions Get Involved Make a gift (external link) Discover areas to support Support The Stanford Fund Become a volunteer Read donor stories