Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can genomic testing help us better treat kidney disease? Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The underlying cause of kidney failure is often unknown. Now, a study co-authored by Ali Gharavi, chief of nephrology at Columbia’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, has found that genes cause about 1 in 10 cases of chronic kidney disease in adults, paving the way for more effective treatments. The researchers sequenced the DNA of 3,315 individuals with chronic or end-stage kidney disease—and for 8.5 percent of these individuals, there was no identified cause of their disease. They found that nine percent of the kidney disorders were caused by genes, that 1 in 5 subjects with a genetic form of the disease had been previously misdiagnosed, and that DNA testing identified a cause for 17 percent of those who were unable to be diagnosed using conventional clinical means. These results had a direct impact on clinical care for nearly 85 percent of those with genetic diagnoses. Gharavi also noted that information derived from DNA testing also changed the clinical strategy for several patients, since genetic diagnoses help clinicians better understand potential treatment complications. “Our study identifies chronic kidney disease as the most common adult disease, outside of cancer, for which genomic testing has been demonstrated as clinically essential,” said David Goldstein, director of Columbia University’s Institute for Genomic Medicine and a co-senior author of the study. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Why do genetic mutations cause disease in some people but not in others? How can we tailor bladder cancer treatments to patients? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University