Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can brain scans help treat and prevent PTSD? The Future of Neuroscience Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Yuval Neria, professor of medical psychology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health, and his colleagues discovered a link between hippocampus size and treatment response for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The hippocampus is a brain area that distinguishes between safety and danger, and prior research has shown a smaller hippocampus elevates the risk of having PTSD. These findings impact those engaged in potentially traumatic activities. “For example, new recruits for military service may be scanned before an assignment to determine whether they are capable of dealing with the expected stress and trauma,” said Neria. The most recent study Neria and his colleagues conducted focused on hippocampus size and PTSD treatment effectiveness, showing a larger hippocampus increases the likelihood of a positive response to treatment. This study not only strengthens theories that the hippocampus plays a large role in PTSD, but also points to new methods of screening for the disorder and tailoring treatment to the individual. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? Can nanotechnology map the human brain? What does poverty do to kids’ brains? How can we help Parkinson's patients avoid falls? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University