Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How do we protect infants from malaria? Global Solutions Just Societies Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In the West African country of Sierra Leone, malaria-related illness and death rates are among the highest in the world, especially for children under five years of age. Addressing this crisis, researchers from ICAP at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health are working with partners in Sierra Leone to offer preventive malaria treatment for babies nationwide—the first coverage of its kind in the world. Known as intermittent preventive treatment in infants (IPTi), the coverage gives babies a course of antimalarial medicine with routine immunizations, whether or not the infants have malaria. The World Health Organization recommends IPTi in areas with moderate or high risk of malaria transmission, such as all of Sierra Leone. In 2016, ICAP began a partnership with Sierra Leone’s National Malaria Control Program (NMCP), with support from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to make the nation the first country to roll out IPTi nationwide. Today, ICAP is supporting the NMCP in its goal of reducing malaria-related illness and death by 40 percent by 2020. “IPTi is a proven strategy to reduce malaria and its complications in infants, and I am happy that ICAP, with support from CDC, was able to partner with NMCP to scale up the program nationally,” said Mame Awa Toure, MD, MSc, country director for ICAP in Sierra Leone. “We look forward to continued partnership in strengthening Sierra Leone’s health care systems and health workforce for the country’s future.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University