Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Privacy / Refund Policy Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Privacy and Refund Policies Privacy Columbia University is committed to securing the accuracy and privacy of your information. The University uses this website to collect personal contact information, information about your employer and credit card information. This information is used primarily to process donations to Columbia. In addition, your information is used to create a record about you in our alumni and donor database, or to update your existing record. This information will be available to Columbia schools, offices and departments for University-related activities. Your credit card number is never stored in your Columbia record. It is the policy of the University to hold the names of our donors in confidence unless one or more of the following conditions apply: it is common and established practice to list such gifts in a newsletter, annual report, etc.; the gift qualifies for a naming opportunity elected by the donor; the donor gives express permission to Columbia to make his/her gift public as part of a written document (such as a gift agreement) or other direct communication; Columbia is obliged by legal requirements to provide information regarding the gift. Columbia has a small number of affinity partners, such as banks and insurance companies, who offer special promotions for Columbia students and alumni. We carefully screen these partners and believe that they provide value to the Columbia community. From time to time the University may share your information with these business partners in order that they may offer you their services or products. You may opt out of receiving any or all of these communications by e-mailing us at alumni@columbia.edu. When contacting us, please specify which types of communication (e-mail, regular mail, telephone calls, etc.) you no longer wish to receive. Columbia reserves the right to change this policy or University policies at any time without notice. You should visit this page periodically to review the current policy. If you have questions about this privacy policy, or you believe that your information has not been treated in accordance with this policy, please contact us via e-mail at webgift@columbia.edu. You may also contact us toll-free within the United States at (866) GIFTSYS. Refunds By making a charitable gift to Columbia University in the City of New York, a 501(c)(3) organization, the donor understands that charitable donations are not refundable. Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University