Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Jelani Cobb Just Societies Journalism Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Ira A. Lipman Professor of Journalism My commitment: Writing another’s humanity When I started at The New Yorker, I didn’t set out to write about Trayvon Martin, Jordan Davis, Charleston, Ferguson, Baltimore, Eric Garner, but those were the topics that had to be discussed. If there’s been any one thing that I’ve tried to do in my writing, it’s to present a brief for the humanity of people whose humanity is often overlooked. I think it’s the common marker of our humanity to ask: can you see yourself in someone else’s shoes, and can you believe that someone’s behavior, even if it seems irrational to you, might have some underlying logic? If you lived in this person’s circumstances, would this action make more sense to you? I think it’s that humility that allows people to grapple with each other’s humanity. Keep up with Jelani Cobb: @jelani9 Ideas and Impact Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University