Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Columbia’s Freedom & Citizenship Program helps NYC high schoolers find new possibilities Just Societies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Each summer, up to 45 high school juniors from low-income households are invited to a free college prep and civic engagement program at Columbia. Run by the Center for American Studies at the University, the Freedom & Citizenship program supports students who often are the first in their families to go to college. The high schoolers live on campus throughout the summer, taking classes to probe some of the biggest questions facing our society. In small groups, students also work on leadership projects and get college application support. The program helps students see what a liberal arts education can offer to them, develop practical citizenship skills, and gain the self-confidence needed to succeed in college and beyond. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University