Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home What can policy students learn from data analysis? Data and Society Data Science Institute International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A new program in the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) will empower public policy students with data analysis skills, helping them better grapple with complex problems and develop solutions. The program does not aim to turn policy students into software programmers, but rather addresses an emerging need for data literacy in policymaking. Computational Literacy for Public Policy was developed by Adam Cannon, senior lecturer in machine learning, and Gregory Falco, SIPA adjunct lecturer. A test run of the project’s first course offering, Computing in Context for Policy, is underway. The program has two parts: the Computing in Context for Policy course and a capstone workshops course for thesis projects. Grant funding is available specifically for capstone projects that can demonstrate “heavy data availability.” The flexibility of choice for capstone projects presents a unique opportunity for Columbia policy students to transform policy as a discipline. The new program is part of the Collaboratory@Columbia, founded by Columbia Entrepreneurship and the Data Science Institute to prepare our students for a data-rich world and data-driven careers. The Collaboratory Fellows Fund supports faculty who want to create new, interdisciplinary courses to integrate data and computational science into their respective disciplines. Additionally, the Collaboratory Clinic is a free consulting service for students and researchers using data. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can machine learning help us hear cries for help? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? Is digital anonymity an illusion? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University