Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Brain lab becomes 3D-printing factory for healthcare worker face shields COVID-19 Recovery Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel With most usual research activities suspended due to quarantine, some Columbia researchers have stepped up to shift their focus to COVID solutions. The Columbia Researchers Against COVID-19 (CRAC) is organizing lab resources and researchers with newfound time on their hands and desire to help fight the virus. One CRAC project involves brain researchers who transformed their brain behavior lab into a factory, churning out 3D-printed face shields for frontline healthcare workers. Hospitals are rapidly running out of personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face shields for their workers. Face shields are especially useful in both blocking contaminated particles from the face and prolonging the usage of the underlying cloth face masks that hospital workers are also in short supply of. To address this critical shortage, researchers at the Zuckerman Institute took just 48 hours to transform a lab studying the brain into a 3D-printing factory for face shield parts. The lab now spends up to 12 hours per day printing parts, allowing for regular deliveries of PPE face shields to healthcare workers in New York. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact CovidWatcher App Tracks Coronavirus Path and Effects in NYC What can COVID-19 teach us about climate change? Brain lab becomes 3D-printing factory for healthcare worker face shields Columbia AIDS researchers pivot to treatments for COVID-19 and future pandemics See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University