Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? Illustration by Jackie Roche Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) is home to the Core Repository—one of the world’s most unique and important collections of scientific samples from the deep sea. Sediment cores (essentially mud) from every major ocean and sea are archived there. These samples, taken from deep beneath the ocean floor, contain clues not only about conditions on Earth millions of years ago, but also hint at what the future has in store for us. Studies of these samples over the nearly seven decades of the Core Repository’s existence have led to groundbreaking discoveries, including revelations about the Earth’s cyclical climate patterns and what caused the mass migration of humans 65,000 years ago. Today, the samples are used in LDEO’s work to learn from past instances of climate change to best prepare for climate change in the future. Recent analysis of the core samples predict that large areas of North America, Central Asia, Africa, and the Middle East could become less hospitable to life due to water shortages. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we translate climate science into agricultural policy? What is the Columbia commitment to climate response? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University