Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Income drops may hurt brain health Income instability hurts brain health The Future of Neuroscience Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Researchers at Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health have discovered a link between a decrease of 25 percent or more in the income of young adults and their reduced brain health in later years. Led by Adina Zeki Al Hazzouri, assistant professor of epidemiology, a study followed US participants for over 30 years from 1990 to 2010. This span includes the recession of the late 2000s when financial instability touched many. During this study, participants reported their annual pre-tax household income every three to five years. Then, researchers asked people to complete thinking and memory tests. The study found that participants with two or more income drops performed worse at finishing tasks than people with no income drops. In addition, people with lowered incomes took longer to complete certain tasks. A subset of participants also had brain scans at the beginning of the study and 20 years later. People with two or more income drops had a smaller total brain volume than people with no income drops. Yet people with only one or more income drops had fewer connections between different areas of the brain. “Our results provide evidence that higher income volatility during peak earning years is associated with worse brain aging in middle age,” said Zeki Al Hazzouri. These findings suggest the need for more studies on the social and financial factors of brain aging. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Closing the alcohol gateway to cocaine An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University