Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will a course inspire student philanthropy? Photo Credit: Lynn Saville Just Societies Columbia College General Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Eighteen Columbia undergraduates gave away $67,000 in spring 2017 in a new course, “Philanthropy and Social Difference,” funded by a grant from The Philanthropy Lab, a nonprofit seeking to teach college students about charitable giving by providing them with funds to donate. “Columbia students are so very interested in social justice,” said Rachel Adams, professor of English and comparative literature, who teaches the course with Victoria Rosner, adjunct associate professor of English and comparative literature and dean of academic affairs at the School of General Studies. “This was an opportunity to make a concrete impact." Deciding how to distribute the $67,000, students identified their giving goals, formed three groups to consider possible recipients, researched them and visited the organizations under consideration in person or via Skype. Each group nominated one organization, and then all the class members decided how to apportion the money. The largest gift, $33,666, went to the Robin Hood Foundation, an anti-poverty organization in New York that provides funding and management assistance to some 200 philanthropic organizations. “We were able to put into practice what we were learning about philanthropy,” said Michael Rovner, a senior at the School of General Studies who is majoring in economics. “We spent time thinking about what causes matter to us, how often we want to give, and how much we can—and want—to give.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University