Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? Cone Snail, Gila Monster, Malayan Pit Viper, European Fire-Bellied Toad Data and Society Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Animal venom has been a source of medicine for millennia. To help medical researchers find new therapeutic applications, a team of Columbia data scientists recently created a database that gathers the results of all previously published research documenting the effects of venoms on the human body. The database, called VenomKB (“KB” is short for “knowledge base”), so far contains 5,117 studies, dating back to 1975, that have explored venoms' use for treating diseases like cancer, diabetes, and heart failure. The Columbia scientists hope that the open-source website will give medical researchers new ideas for treating these and many other conditions. “The power of the database will increase exponentially in the next few years as more researchers study venoms and contribute their own results,” says Nicholas Tatonetti, an assistant professor of biomedical informatics, who created VenomKB with graduate student Joseph Romano. “Only a tiny percentage of venoms that exist in the wild have been studied for their medicinal properties, so the potential for future drug discovery is enormous.” Learn more about poisons that heal in Columbia Magazine. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Is DNA the hard drive of the future? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is digital anonymity an illusion? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University