Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Giving stories Giving Donors leverage scholarship challenge to support undergraduates Search Explore stories by topic A&S AAP Animal Health Annual Funds Arts and Humanities Arts and Sciences Bequests Business CALS CIS Cornell Annual Funds Cornell Law School Cornell Promise Cornell Tech Crowdfunding Endowment Engaged Cornell Engineering Entrepreneurship First Generation Giving Giving Day Health Homecoming Hotel School Human Ecology ILR International Investments Ithaca Library New York City Parents and Families PCCW Philanthropy Planned Gifts Reunion Scholarships Science Sciences Student and Campus Life Students Technology Veterinary Medicine volunteering $5M endowment gift supports student access A $5 million gift from Irene Rosenfeld ’75, MS ’77, PhD ’80 and Richard Illgen will establish the Rosenfeld/Illgen Scholarship and support the university’s efforts to make Cornell even more affordable for students from all backgrounds. This gift, Irene says, aligns perfectly with the couple’s passion for education. “Cornell played a key role in shaping … Read more May 26, 2022 $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships Read the full story by Kathy Hovis in the Cornell Chronicle. A $10 million gift from Robert S. Harrison ’76 will enhance the College Scholar Program in the College of Arts and Sciences and support undergraduate scholarships. Harrison, chair of the Cornell Board of Trustees and former CEO of the Clinton Global Initiative, was a … Read more May 2, 2022 Major gift endows Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in AAP Read the full story by James Dean in the Cornell Chronicle. A foundational gift has endowed and named the Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in the College of Architecture, Art and Planning (AAP), advancing research, teaching and partnerships dedicated to fostering more sustainable and just cities. The largest single gift to AAP to date, … Read more April 19, 2022 Donors give over $12 million to support students in just 24 hours Thousands of donors participated in the eighth Cornell Giving Day on March 16. Throughout the day, 15,905 alumni, students, faculty, staff, parents, and friends from over 80 countries made gifts totaling a record-breaking $12,268,629. “The thousands of gifts made on Giving Day will help Cornell continue to do the greatest good for our students, and … Read more March 21, 2022 $10M gift boosts quantum science at Cornell Read the full story by Syl Kacapyr in the Cornell Chronicle. A $10 million gift from David W. Meehl ’72, MBA ’74 will grow the roster of faculty, students and equipment needed to study the mysterious behavior of matter at atomic and subatomic scales, strengthening the university’s position as a leader in quantum science and … Read more March 8, 2022 Show More Seasonal Zoom backgrounds 🌸 Spring is here on campus! Give your virtual meetings a little Cornell color and download these Zoom backgrounds. Download Photo: Jason Koski (UREL) Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022