Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can accurate rainfall data help farmers insure their land? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Insurance companies require historical rainfall data to analyze drought probabilities and calculate index insurance prices. Many farmers worldwide do not have access to this information and have difficulties getting adequate insurance coverage. Researchers at Columbia’s International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI) are harnessing data sets to support some of the largest index insurance projects across the Horn of Africa, protecting hundreds of thousands of farmers. The Enhancing National Climate Services (ENACTS) initiative, led by IRI, brings climate knowledge into national decision making by improving access to climate information. ENACTS integrates satellite and rain gauge data sets to get comprehensive rainfall data from the last few decades. Access to information products is enhanced by making the improved data available online through ENACTS “Maprooms.” The ENACTS initiative has truly been transformative—mobilizing the launch and scaling of some of the most successful index insurance projects across Africa. ENACTS’ farmer-level projects continue to expand to new countries, bringing a new kind of integrated information and climate risk protection process. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? How can we safely reduce toxic byproducts of steel and iron production? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can climate scientists help the world better prepare for epidemics? Can we design more efficient solar cells? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University