Skip to main content Honor The Future Contact Office of Advancement Search Why Give Why Give to UVA? All gifts of any kind help secure the University’s place as a premier institution of learning and make it possible for our students, faculty, and researchers to shape a brighter future. Give Now Why Give For the Future It's Your Reunion Year Volunteer Resources Be a Leader Leaders in Philanthropy Lawn Society Cornerstone Society Rotunda Society Where to Give Schools & Programs Overview School of Data Science University Library Students Overview Bicentennial Scholars Fund Blue Ridge Scholars University Achievement Awards Parents Fund Scholarships Rainy Day Fund Student Health and Wellness Center Contemplative Sciences Center Give to Students Academic & Faculty Excellence Overview Bicentennial Professors Fund Center for Teaching Excellence Total Advising USOAR Give to Faculty Excellence Jeffersonian Grounds Overview Join Jefferson's Circle Give to the Jeffersonian Grounds The Virginia Fund Overview Give to the Virginia Fund Parents Fund Overview Give to the Parents Fund Ways to Give Plan Your Gift You can join the growing number of alumni and friends who invest now in the University’s future by including UVA as a beneficiary of their wills, charitable trusts, and retirement plans. Gifts like these can offer you and your family significant tax benefits as well as greater financial flexibility in meeting your personal and philanthropic goals. Give Now Ways to Give Overview Choose Your Method Create an Endowment Plan Your Gift Plans from An Estate Retirement Plans Wills and Living Trusts Other Planned Giving Life Insurance Real Estate Qualified Charitable Distributions Stocks and Bonds Plans with an Income Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trusts Stories Your Gifts Transform Lives The University serves Virginia, the nation, and the world by preparing responsible citizen-leaders; advancing, preserving, and disseminating knowledge; and providing world-class patient care. Give Now Categories View All Arts Athletics Diversity Environment Faculty Health Research Students Technology Schools Architecture Arts & Sciences Batten Darden Data Science Education Engineering Law McIntire Medicine Nursing Wise Give Now Visit Our Honor the Future Campaign Site Why Give For the Future It's Your Reunion Year Be a Leader Where to Give Schools & Programs Students Academic & Faculty Excellence Jeffersonian Grounds The Virginia Fund Parents Fund Ways To Give Choose Your Method Create an Endowment Plan Your Gift Stories Give Now Search Homepage Image The Gift of Education At UVA, education is truly everything. Play Video Homepage Image Envision tells the story of the power of philanthropy across Grounds by showing ways in which alumni, parents, and friends demonstrate their devotion to—and play a vital role in—the life of the University of Virginia. Honor the Future Campaign Reaches $4 Billion Mark The campaign has already fueled advances in medical research, supported faculty and financial aid, increased accessibility for first-generation students, and transformed facilities. Scholarships For the Commonwealth Extending loving care to the public good, Mary Frances Morris remembers Joseph Webster Whitehead, Virginia statesman and UVA Law alumnus. Research Like a Fingerprint Critical research investments spark the invention of a diagnostic microchip with great potential. Scholarships Her Confident Start Blue Ridge Scholarships bring high-achieving students like Darnisha Augustin to Grounds. The Future is History A preeminent scholar on the Atlantic World, professor Laurent Dubois offers a unique perspective on democracy. UVA Department of Athletics Announces Largest Single Gift Commitment in Its History The $40 million bequest came from a former student-athlete who wanted to make a significant difference in the lives of future athletes at UVA. Student Experience Whatever It Takes Longtime supporter Gretchen Tibbits is now committed to ensuring the future of the arts at UVA. Scholarships First for a First-Year Kiara Barrientos (Col ’25) is joining the UVA community and is ready to be involved. Leaders in Philanthropy The faces and stories of UVA’s loyal stakeholders. Whatever It Takes Student Experience Whatever It Takes Longtime supporter Gretchen Tibbits is now committed to ensuring the future of the arts at UVA. Leaders in Philanthropy Read more about Whatever It Takes Providing Strength Scholarships Providing Strength Having built a successful career in the construction business, Michael Russell is helping to provide a solid foundation for Black students at the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Leaders in Philanthropy Read more about Providing Strength A Different, Deeper Feeling Scholarships A Different, Deeper Feeling Charlie Diederich created his bicentennial scholarship to honor his wife’s memory and as a tribute to the nursing profession. Leaders in Philanthropy Read more about A Different, Deeper Feeling Image UVA to EXPAND ACCESS On September 24, 2021, President James E. Ryan announced $50 million in additional matching funds for gifts to Bicentennial Scholarships to foster excellence and diversity within the undergraduate student body and encourage student success. LEARN MORE Student Health & Wellness Center UVA promotes a healthy educational experience that helps students thrive, allowing them to succeed academically and throughout their lives. The Student Health & Wellness Center is a core component of the University’s efforts to offer the best possible student experience. The center will expand services to students to provide a more comprehensive approach to total wellness. Read more about Student Health & Wellness Center Schools Together, we will find the way forward. You can give to all 12 schools and the College at Wise. The possibilities are endless for supporting our students, faculty, and programs. Learn more about where to give. Impact Stories Yours to Shape Carrying Honor Forward Scholarships Carrying Honor Forward Eric Jang (Col ’23) is a recipient of the Captain Humayun Khan Memorial Bicentennial Scholarship. A member of the UVA ROTC and a psychology major—just like the late Humayun Khan (Col ’00)—Jang embodies the values this hero displayed on Grounds and throughout his life. Read more about Carrying Honor Forward Expertise & A Gentle Nature Research Expertise & A Gentle Nature Joanne Walsh’s positive experience at UVA Cancer Center inspired her to fund future research on brain cancer. Read more about Expertise & A Gentle Nature Ivy Foundation Commits $2 Million For COVID-19 Translational Research Fund Research Ivy Foundation Commits $2 Million For COVID-19 Translational Research Fund The Charlottesville-based Ivy Foundation has committed $2 million to accelerate biomedical research focused on COVID-19 at the University of Virginia. Health Read more about Ivy Foundation Commits $2 Million For COVID-19 Translational Research Fund Saunders Family’s $10M Gift Creates Inaugural Endowed University Professorships Faculty Support Saunders Family’s $10M Gift Creates Inaugural Endowed University Professorships The gift will be matched by UVA’s Bicentennial Professors Fund, for a total investment of $20 million in the two inaugural University Professorships. Read more about Saunders Family’s $10M Gift Creates Inaugural Endowed University Professorships Born to Lead Scholarships Born to Lead She completed her master’s degree at the Batten School with critical support from a fellowship. Now she’s ready to take on the world. Read more about Born to Lead The Athletics Family UVA Giving The Athletics Family To watch the 2021 NCAA Women's Swimming and Diving Championships, true fans had to stream four nights of finals in 21 different events. Read more about The Athletics Family View All Stories Image Gracious Goodness A sense of gratitude inspired Dr. Dale Meyer (Col ’79)—a first-generation scholarship student—and his wife, Dr. Joy Meyer, to create the Meyer Family Scholarship, a need-based scholarship for out-of-state students at UVA. "There are things that happened in my life—including going to the University of Virginia—that I deeply appreciate," Dale Meyer reflected. The Meyers funded their scholarship with a charitable gift annuity. "A CGA is a win-win," Dale Meyer said. "Joy and I want to make provisions for each other in our investment and estate planning." Plan a Gift For Our Students Today's students, from all backgrounds, are tomorrow's leaders. With your support, our promising students gain a greater understanding of the world and live purposefully. Read more about For Our Students The Virginia Fund The Virginia Fund provides flexible funding for every aspect of the University, making it possible to help our students, faculty, and research efforts as well as promote discovery, community, and service. Read more about The Virginia Fund We should aspire to be both great and good in all that we do. James E. Ryan, President × Stay Up To Date @uva_advancement Thu, 03/14/2019 - 14:40 Phil Bourne teamed up with Darden to create a MBA/Master of Science in Data Science program to educate the next generation of tech leaders with the in-depth training & tools they need to turn data into action-oriented business insights. #PiDay @uva_advancement Wed, 03/13/2019 - 13:02 By combining a competitive streak with a sense of social responsibility, Kat Young, a redshirt sophomore on the volleyball team, embodies the ideal of a UVA student-athlete. @uva_advancement Tue, 03/05/2019 - 15:38 Over the years, the Parents Fund has supported more than 2,000 University areas, including the University Programs Council’s late-night breakfast series. #NationalPancakeDay @uva_advancement Mon, 10/15/2018 - 10:25 Jim Ryan’s official inauguration as the University’s ninth president is this weekend! Visit http://inauguration.virginia.edu/ for a list of activities open to the public. @uva_advancement Fri, 10/12/2018 - 13:15 Thomas C. Katsouleas, UVA’s executive vice president and provost, will speak at the Fall Convocation, to be held Oct. 26 during Family Weekend. @uva_advancement Thu, 10/04/2018 - 15:09 #TBT to Lucy on the Lawn styling and profiling. "Well-behaved dogs seldom make history" #uvadog #worldanimalday JOIN ENVISION Sign up for our ENVISION newsletter to hear how your gifts have helped shape the future of the University of Virginia. Subscribe Office of Advancement Contact Careers Connect With Us Instagram Twitter YouTube Facebook GIVE NOW © 2020 BY THE RECTOR AND VISITORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Non-discrimination Notice Privacy Policy