Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can artists and scientists help each other ask questions? Columbia graduate students Frank Cusimano and Ross McBee with artist Anicka Yi. Cusimano is a PhD student in the Institute of Human Nutrition, and McBee is a PhD student in biology. Arts and Ideas Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Without three graduate students at Columbia University Medical Center, Anicka Yi’s “Life is Cheap” exhibition at the Guggenheim (April 21 – July 5) may have looked, and smelled, a lot different. Yi’s art draws concepts and techniques from science, and she is known for creating work with biological material to challenge the primacy of vision in the response to art. As the recipient of the 2016 Hugo Boss Prize, a biennial award for contemporary art, she began preparing for her Guggenheim exhibition last fall and reached out to Filippo Mancia, PhD, professor of physiology & cellular biophysics, for scientific advice. “People ask me, ‘Why are you interested in science, and how did you start to get involved with science?’” Yi said. “My response to that is, ‘If you are embarking upon any kind of art-making, science is just already embedded into anything that you will do.’” Columbia graduate students Hunter Giese, Frank Cusimano, and Ross McBee helped Yi with projects like choosing bacteria and materials that would stay alive for her months-long installation. Yi also asked the scientists hypotheticals—can you create a drug that induces perception—that inspired them all to think outside the box. “Scientists and artists like to be creative. They like to come up with new ways of investigating different questions,” said Giese, a PhD candidate in Physiology and Biophysics. “Having these conversations with Anicka is helping me ask better questions.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University