Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Neil Shneider The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Associate Professor of Neurology; Director, Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center; and Director, ALSA Clinical Program My commitment: Understanding the mechanisms that cause ALS and identifying targets for drug discovery More than seventy-five years after Lou Gehrig died from ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), we still don’t know what causes the majority of cases, and no medication is available to treat this devastating disease. Most ALS patients have no family history of motor neuron disease and, in these cases, various triggers—including environmental toxicants, trauma, inflammation, and infection—have been explored over the years. While all of these may play some role in the onset or progression of motor neuron degeneration, none seem to have a primary role in the disease. The only known cause of ALS is genes and, in approximately 10 to 15 percent of cases, ALS is associated with a mutation in one of a growing number of genes, serving a variety of distinct molecular and cellular functions. The central question for the field is: how is it that a mutation in any one of these genes could cause a stereotyped disorder like ALS? Discovering and understanding the mechanisms of disease common to these genetic forms of ALS—and the related disorder, frontotemporal dementia (FTD)—is the major focus of my lab. Our work involves the generation and characterization of mouse models of the disease in which ALS-causing mutations from patients are introduced into the mouse genome. We then use these models to find pathways that contribute to motor degeneration and to identify targets for drug discovery. Recent developments in genetics, in molecular medicine, and in stem cell technologies make possible a rational approach to the treatment of ALS. Our growing understanding of the biology of the disease will undoubtedly lead to the discovery of novel therapeutics that will make a meaningful difference in the lives of our ALS patients and their families. Keep up with Columbia University Medical Center: @ColumbiaMed Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University