What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Texas Leader Magazine Chosen Family The Forty Acres inspire lasting friendships and great generosity. The Hartmans and Keys, all UT alumni, have created endowed scholarships for future Longhorns. Fall 2021 Fall 2021 Spotlight Alumni from the School of Architecture, McCombs School of Business and Jackson School of Geosciences share favorite UT memories and why they support the Forty Acres. The Heart of Health Care Alumna Kim Chapman and spouse Jeff establish a scholarship, fellowship and an estate gift to support UT Austin’s nationally ranked School of Nursing. Dreams Accomplished The Petterson Family’s endowed scholarships in both nursing and computer science through the Texas Challenge program support future generations of Longhorns. For My Father Honoring his father’s WWII Army Air Corps service, UT alum Ed Clendenin and wife Pat establish an endowed graduate internship for the Briscoe Center for American History. Bridging Cultures Following a 38-year career at UT Austin, librarian Ann Hartness is honored with a reading room in her name at the Nettie Lee Benson Latin American Collection. The Texas Leader illustrates how UT supporters are changing the world through philanthropy and careful estate planning. By investing in students and their futures, research that leads to new discoveries, and opportunities to transform major industries for the benefit of society, these contributions make a difference every day on campus and across the globe. Digital Download Finding My Voice UT alumna Andrea Anderson helps the next generation of leaders find excellence within themselves. Previous Issue Keeping Texas on Top Lois and Richard Folger are committed to bringing world-class faculty and students to the Forty Acres. Gazing Upward Avid stargazer supports astronomy graduate students and wants to see more women in the field. Longhorn Spirit Former international student’s gift honors a friendship. And it all started with a bag of peanuts. More Texas Leader Stories Never Miss a Texas Leader Story Sign up for the Texas Leader newsletter to get stories delivered to your inbox twice annually. Questions? Contact us at giftplan@austin.utexas.edu. Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback