Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Revolutionary microscope captures biology at the speed of life SCAPE 2.0 dual-color 3D imaging of blood flow in a beating embryonic zebrafish heart (left) and of a freely moving C. elegans worm (right) (Credits: Venkatakaushik Voleti/Hillman lab/Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute (C. elegans), Venkatakaushik Voleti/Kimara Targoff/Hillman lab/Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute (zebrafish)). The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia scientists have created a new high-speed microscope capable of observing the dynamic processes of living things, from the beating heart of a fish embryo to the wriggles of a worm. Called SCAPE 2.0, this new technology uses angled sheets of light to quickly scan entire planes, forming a 3D image. SCAPE 2.0 improves on a technique conventional microscopes use to image living samples: scanning a small spot of laser light around the sample. This traditional approach is not only slower but also harder on living samples than SCAPE 2.0, since it uses much more light. Additionally, SCAPE 2.0 is smaller—it has a single stationary, objective lens rather than the multiple lenses other microscopes require. In fact, SCAPE 2.0 is so compact that Elizabeth Hillman, leader of the effort and a professor of biomedical engineering, often carries the system in the trunk of her car. She has been giving hands-on demonstrations to help scientists around the world use SCAPE in their research. “SCAPE 2.0 opens up a new landscape of things we can see. I hope our new results will inspire scientists to think of what new questions can be asėed, and what new avenues of scientific discovery we can explore next.” From imaging the way gas bubbles form in volcanic eruptions to tracking how genetic mutations affect heart development, SCAPE holds tremendous promise to transform a variety of fields. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University