Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Ways to Give Gift Planning Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Ways to Give Gift Planning Planned gifts, including bequests and life income gifts, are designed to help you meet your financial and charitable goals while supporting Columbia in the long term. For more information, contact the Office of Gift Planning at 800-338-3294 or e-mail gift.planning@columbia.edu. Columbia, its employees, and representatives do not offer legal or financial advice. Prospective donors are urged to consult with an attorney, financial advisor, estate planner, or accountant before making arrangements. Learn More Include a Bequest in Your Will Bequests to Columbia are deductible for estate tax purposes. They may be structured in many ways and directed to a purpose of your choice. For sample bequest language, contact the Office of Gift Planning at 800-338-3294 or e-mail gift.planning@columbia.edu. Learn More Name Columbia as a Beneficiary Adding Columbia as a retirement account beneficiary is good tax planning. Columbia is exempt from income taxes, unlike individual heirs, so your philanthropic impact will go further when you leave an account to the University. Learn More Consider an IRA Charitable Rollover For those 70-and-a-half years or older, directing gifts to Columbia from your Individual Retirement Account (IRA) is an easy, convenient way to make a gift from one of your major assets. The gift will be excluded from your gross income: a tax-free rollover will count towards your required minimum distribution (RMD). Learn More Establish a Life Income Plan In exchange for your gift, lifetime payments will be made to you, your spouse, or anyone you name, and the balance will pass to Columbia for the purpose you specify. Part of your gift will be tax deductible. For gifts of appreciated securities, there is favorable capital gains tax treatment. Learn More Charitable Gift Annuities Funded with $25,000 or more in cash or securities, charitable gift annuities provide fixed payments for life. A portion of these payments is usually tax-free for a number of years. Learn More Charitable Remainder Trusts Funded with $100,000 or more in cash or securities, charitable remainder trusts provide a stream of payments for life (or a term of years) determined by investment performance (unitrust) or a fixed dollar amount (annuity trust). Unitrusts may be invested alongside Columbia’s endowment to benefit from diversification and access to asset classes not available to most individuals. Learn More Establish a Donor-Advised Fund A donor-advised fund allows you to make a tax-deductible gift to Columbia to establish a fund today—and later advise the University on how you would like the gift used. At least half of the gift must be designated to Columbia, and the rest may support other charities. Learn More Pledge Proceeds from Your Future Business Success If you are a Columbia alumni or friend who is a business founder, equity holder, or investor, make a non-binding pledge to contribute a percentage of your venture’s future proceeds to Columbia University. By making this pledge, you become a member of the Founders Society, a select network of entrepreneurs. Learn More Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University