Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can we help the economy weather climate change? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia University’s Earth Institute, where the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory sits, is creating the first curriculum to join finance and climate research. “Climate Science and Portfolio Risk” will explore how climate change can affect investments and other economic systems. As climate change affects more and more sectors, this pairing helps businesses develop an increasingly sophisticated understanding of the potentially monumental risks at stake. The goal will be to empower investment managers to better assess these increasing complexities, engage effectively with companies, and ultimately build more sustainable portfolios for clients that can weather the storm. The curriculum is being co-developed with the global investment management firm AllianceBernstein L.P. (AB). All investment teams at AB will enroll in a pilot program with interactive sessions on the curriculum. Teams will learn to evaluate how companies’ risks and opportunities are associated with global climate change, including rising sea levels, wildfire hazards, and predictive modeling for extreme weather. The outcomes of the pilot program will enhance the curriculum to serve as a model for the investment industry. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What is the Columbia commitment to climate response? Can data from old wildfires predict and prevent the next ones? How can we defend precious marine life? What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? How can we prevent violence caused by climate change? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University