Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can students inform NYC's urban agriculture policies? Just Societies Climate Response International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel As part of their Capstone project, a team of students at the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) prepared 10 policy recommendations for better food cultivation in New York City—and government officials took notice. New York City Council member Rafael L. Espinal announced in August 2018 that he plans to introduce a legislative package to bolster urban agriculture across the city, informed in part by the students’ research. “Whether through zoning laws or bureaucratic hoops, or lack of investment and incentives, or the practice of taking away community garden licenses, we’re not doing enough to support these spaces that do so much for our ecosystem,” said Espinal. The students—Dafna Bareket, Caitlin Marie Boas, Joseph DeMarco, Rebecca Hopkins, Devika Kaul, James Lin, Philip Malley, Julie Manoharan, Alexander Rudnicki, Daniel Wohl, and Ella Wynn, all MPA-ESP ’18—took a holistic approach to urban agriculture by conducting interviews, site visits, and data analysis in their report, “Rooted in Resilience.” “From zoning to water and resources management to supply chain to economic development to environmental and community justice to nutrition, education, and job readiness, the team revealed the challenges and the solutions that urban agriculture offers,” said Nancy Degnan MPA ’01 PhD ’01GSAS, a SIPA adjunct professor and the students’ Capstone adviser. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we defend precious marine life? What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University