Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Ways to Give Tax and Related Information Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Ways to Give Tax and Related Information Tax Advantages A cash gift entitles you to the most generous federal income tax charitable deduction—up to 60 percent of your adjusted gross income. If all deductible gifts within a given year exceed the 60-percent limit, the excess amount may be carried over as a deduction for up to five years. See also Gifts of Securities. Tax Receipts We mail tax receipts for all gifts of $10 and above. However, if you give online, we will only mail tax receipts at your request—but we will e-mail a confirmation to you. Tax ID Number Columbia University's tax ID number (EIN) is 13-5598093. Financial Information To obtain financial information about Columbia University, write to the below address. Columbia University 615 West 131st Street, MC841 New York, NY 10027-7922 In addition, several states where Columbia is required to file financial information each year also require the following disclosures. Colorado: Residents of Colorado may obtain copies of registration and financial documents from the office of the Secretary of State at (303) 894-2680 or http://www.sos.state.co.us/. Maryland: For the cost of postage and copying, documents and information filed under the Maryland charitable solicitation law may be obtained from the Secretary of State, Charitable Division, State House, Annapolis, MD 21401, (800) 825-4510. Michigan: MICS No. 43840 Washington: The notice of solicitation required by the Charitable Solicitation Act is on file with the Washington Secretary of State. Information about Columbia's financial affairs is available from the Secretary of State at the following toll-free number for Washington residents: 1-800-332-4483. Registration in the above states does not imply endorsement, approval, or recommendation of Columbia University by the states. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University