Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Giving to Notre Dame Priorities Giving Societies Ways to Give Watch Stories Contact Give Now Home Contact Search Menu Tax Strategies Home › Ways to Give › Tax Strategies Tax Strategies There are many ways to make your gift to Notre Dame while at the same time maximize your tax savings. With tax laws surrounding charitable giving ever-evolving, we want to make sure you have the most current information on ways to both make an impact at Notre Dame and reduce your tax liability. In addition to the information provided here, you can learn more about charitable giving strategies by downloading our complimentary brochure, Tax Strategies for 2021 Charitable Giving. Gifts of Cash Gifts of cash are tax-deductible in the year the gift is made. As part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 which was signed on December 27, 2020, certain provisions of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act that increase incentives for charitable giving were extended through 2021. These provisions include: “Above-the-Line” Deduction for Cash Gifts in 2021 The $300 above-the-line deduction established in 2020 for gifts of cash by a non-itemizer (excluding donor advised funds or supporting organizations) has been extended and expanded to $600 for those filing jointly for the 2021 tax year. 100% Charitable Deduction Limit The increase in the available itemized deduction for cash contributions to public charities of 60% to 100% of adjusted gross income has been extended to include the 2021 tax year. Instructions for giving gifts of cash via check, credit card and wire transfer are available at the links below. Gifts of cash via personal check Gifts of cash via credit card Gift of cash by wire transfer If you would like your gift credited in the calendar year 2021, please see our year-end deadlines for details on ensuring your gift is received on time. Gifts of Long-Term Appreciated Securities Giving a gift of long-term appreciated securities is in most cases more tax advantageous than giving cash. This is because capital gains taxes can be avoided on gifts of long-term appreciated assets. For taxpayers who will not be able to itemize deductions in a given year, gifts of long-term appreciated securities are an especially important tool in their tax reduction tool kit. Please see the examples below: Gift Amount Stock Basis Tax Savings from Avoidance of Capital Gains Tax Savings from Charitable Deduction Net Cost of Gift $1,500 $600 $135 $480 $885 $5,000 $2,000 $450 $1,600 2,950 *Based on 32 percent marginal tax rate and 15 percent capital gains tax rate In other words, the cost of your gift of $1,500 may be reduced to a net cost of $885, resulting from a savings of $135 in capital gains tax and, if you are taxed at a 32 percent marginal tax rate, an additional $480 in savings from the income tax charitable deduction. Len Moretti ’69, a Rockne Athletics Fund member uses this strategy to make his annual gifts to Notre Dame and states, “I am surprised that more people do not take advantage of this strategy. Making your gift to Notre Dame with long-term appreciated assets can offer you substantial tax savings, especially if you will not be itemizing in a given year. For those of you who are of the age to have Required Minimum Distributions (RMD), you have the additional benefit of having an amount from the distribution to go directly to a Notre Dame and not pay tax on that distribution. You would utilize the qualified charitable distribution option (QCD). Please consult your tax advisor for more details on this tax savings." How to Give Securities to Notre Dame The simplest way to transfer securities, such as stocks, to Notre Dame is through a depository trust company (DTC) transfer. For more information on how to transfer securities or to make a gift of securities, please contact Lisa Kresnak at 574-631-9947 or ekresnak@nd.edu. Please have the following information available when you call: The name and type of securities to be gifted (public, restricted, mutual fund, etc.). The number of shares. The date you intend to make the gift. Complete instructions on making a gift of securities › Gifts that Produce Income Charitable gift annuities (CGAs) and charitable remainder trusts (CRTs) may provide an opportunity for you to make a tax-efficient gift to Notre Dame while at the same time securing quarterly payments to yourself or loved ones. Many people have an interest in the CRT program for its unique ability to leverage the Notre Dame Endowment to invest trust assets without fees. When you invest in a CRT with the Notre Dame Endowment, your gift will provide a lifetime income stream while simultaneously offering an immediate income-tax deduction for a portion of your gift. For information on charitable gift annuities and charitable remainder trusts, please contact the Office of Gift Planning at 574-631-7164 or pgiving.nd.edu. IRA Charitable Rollover Gifts If you are 70 ½ years of age* or older you can make a qualified charitable distribution of up to $100,000 directly to Notre Dame from a traditional Individual Retirement Account (IRA) and avoid reporting the income. To make an IRA Charitable Rollover gift to Notre Dame, contact your IRA custodian and ask that your distribution be a charitable rollover to Notre Dame and include your name, address and how you would like the gift allocated in the transfer. Matching Gifts A corporate matching gift is an excellent way to increase the impact of your personal gift. By taking advantage of your employer’s matching gift program, you can arrange for an additional gift that can potentially double or triple the impact of your contribution. Detailed instructions for making a matching gift are available online. You may also contact us at matching@nd.edu. Year-End Deadlines Remember to make your gift online to the University of Notre Dame by December 31 to ensure tax credit and eligibility for the football ticket lottery. Online gifts completed no later than midnight in your time zone on December 31 will qualify. To make your gift online, go to giveto.nd.edu. IRS guidelines require online credit card transactions be completed by 11:59 p.m. December 31 (based on the time zone in which the gift is made) in order for those gifts to count toward 2021 tax deductibility. Giving Method Deadline Mutual fund transfers December 15 Securities December 28 Mailed check December 31 Online gifts December 31 Phoned-in credit card gifts December 31 Wire Transfers and ACH Gifts December 31 Indiana Tax Credits Tax Credit for Individuals Indiana will give you a 50% tax credit for each dollar you give to Notre Dame, up to $200 in donations or up to $100 of tax credit. The tax credit is applied to your state tax return, either reducing the amount of taxes owed or providing a refund on taxes paid. This benefit is doubled for individuals filing a married or joint return to a total of up to $400 in donations yielding up to $200 in tax credit. To take advantage of this opportunity, you must use the Indiana Department of Revenue Schedule CC-40 Indiana College Credit Form when filing your state income tax return. Indiana Tax Credit for Corporations Indiana corporations may receive 50% credit for gifts, not to exceed 10% of the company’s adjusted gross income tax or $1,000, whichever is less. For more details, please reference this information bulletin from the Indiana Department of Revenue website. *The SECURE Act increased the age when required minimum distributions (RMD) apply from age 70 ½ to age 72. Benefactors can still begin making IRA charitable rollovers at age 70 ½. The University of Notre Dame is an educational institution and does not provide tax, legal, or financial advice. Any document or information shared by our staff is intended to be educational. Notre Dame strongly encourages all of our benefactors to seek counsel from their own legal and financial advisors. Please know that any information or documents shared by Notre Dame cannot be used to avoid tax-related penalties. Past performance of endowment investments does not guarantee future performance. Home Priorities Giving Societies Ways to Give Planned Giving Corporate Giving Foundation Giving Faculty & Staff Giving Matching Gifts Monthly Giving IRA Charitable Rollover Tax Strategies Honorary and Memorial Gifts Watch Stories Contact Give Now Planned Giving Corporate Giving Foundation Giving Faculty & Staff Giving Matching Gifts Monthly Giving IRA Charitable Rollover Tax Strategies Honorary and Memorial Gifts Giving to Notre Dame 1100 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-7164 Fax (574) 631-9665 develop@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Phone