Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Spinal nerve cells. Photo Credit: Tom Maniatis/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia scientists have discovered that autophagy, one of the body’s defenses against amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), contributes to the disease’s spread later in its progression. ALS targets and kills motor neurons, the nerve cells that guide muscle movement, eventually spreading to other cells in the spinal cord. As ALS progresses, patients lose the ability to move, speak, and breathe on their own. In the disease’s early stages, the body works to clear out the wreckage of the motor neurons through autophagy, a process that breaks down and removes damaged parts of cells. Using mouse models, Tom Maniatis, a principal investigator at Columbia’s Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, and his colleagues discovered that autophagy initially keeps ALS from progressing by getting rid of protein clumps inside the damaged motor neurons. Later in the disease, however, it speeds up the spread of ALS to the rest of the spinal cord. Maniatis attributes this acceleration to adjoining cells’ inflammatory reaction to disease-causing protein tangles that may escape during autophagy. Understanding how autophagy first slows then speeds ALS may lead to new treatments that can tackle the disease before the onset of devastating symptoms. “By the time ALS symptoms are noticeable, the disease is very far along,” said Maniatis. “If we can find ways of treating the earlier stages of disease, rather than trying to stop it after it’s full blown, it may be possible to develop more effective therapies.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will a chip reverse blindness? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? Can we erase painful memories while keeping others intact? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University