Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can light therapy and sleep regulation rapidly treat depression? The Future of Neuroscience Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Many people who suffer from depression use medication and psychotherapy for mental health help, yet these therapies can cost great time and money. While antidepressants are effective for many people, they can take four to eight weeks to ease a person’s symptoms. Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) researchers with the Depression Evaluation Service (DES) at New York State Psychiatric Institute are studying a more accessible, faster way to abet depression. Wake therapy uses simulated morning light, and rescheduled sleep to reset one’s Circadian rhythms and stabilize moods. “Light not only helps us see, but also establishes our biological clock,” said Jonathan W. Stewart, professor of clinical psychiatry at CUMC. In a recent CUMC open trial, Stewart’s team found that the drug-free, fast-acting wake therapy led to depression-remission in 58 percent of patients within one week. In contrast, 35 to 45 percent of patients on antidepressant medications had a depression-remission in six weeks. With wake therapy’s vast potential as an accessible mental health support, Stewart and his team are expanding their trials to better understand the mood benefits of adjusted sleep schedules and artificial sunlight. Support this Program Learn More Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University