Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Where are Hispanics in US media? Just Societies Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Hispanics make up over 17 percent of the US population, a figure up about 20 million since 2000, and they buy 26 percent of movie tickets. Yet they are between two and eight percent of the television and movie industry, a statistical disconnect Frances Negrón-Muntaner, founder of Columbia’s Media and Idea Lab, attributes to ever-larger media conglomerates resulting from corporate mergers. Award-winning filmmaker, writer, curator, and comparative literature professor, Negrón-Muntaner studies representations of the Caribbean, the African diaspora, and Latinos in the US media. In her recent research, Negrón-Muntaner, who also directs Columbia’s Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, found that when a company merges, the new corporation tends to promote its own productions rather than those from independent, often more diverse companies. Thanks to mergers, a new company has more talent of different races and ethnicities, but the top leadership, those calling the shots, does not diversify. “The companies formed in these transactions do not typically include Latinos in decision-making, hiring, and storylines of their shows,” Negrón-Muntaner said. “This is not just a cultural issue, it’s political and economic.” However, she believes viewers can flex their consumer muscles to advocate for more—and more nuanced—Latino media representation, including in comedy. Negrón-Muntaner’s next question is why Hollywood seems to think Latinos aren’t funny, citing scarce Latino comedians in the spotlight. “Ultimately, I am interested in knowing what can laughter tell us about our collective selves.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University