Make a Gift Home Page About Us News Join Our Team UO's Advancement Internship (ALI) Contact Us Government and Community Relations UO Alumni Association Corporate Partnerships Foundation Relations Login/Logout Our Campaign Campaign Priorities Campaign Impact and Accomplishments Profiles in Excellence Gift Stories Donor Spotlight Stories of Impact Where to Give Student Support Excellence in Teaching and Research Capital Construction Schools and Colleges UO Libraries Global Oregon Arts and Culture Athletics Student Life University Venture Development Fund Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Giving Fund Index Highlighting scholarship recipients Knight Campus Latinx Studies How to Give How to Send Your Gift Annual Giving DuckFunder Estate and Gift Planning Matching Gifts Securities Endowments Year-End Tax Advantages For Donors Oregon 360 Update Your Email UO Volunteers Awards Upcoming UO Events Inside Oregon Investors' Report Apply Visit Give Now Is the UO In Your Will? Give Now Who's Calling Me? Is the UO in Your Will? Menu | Make a Gift | Home Page | About Us News Join Our Team UO's Advancement Internship (ALI) Contact Us Government and Community Relations UO Alumni Association Corporate Partnerships Foundation Relations Login/Logout | Our Campaign Campaign Priorities Campaign Impact and Accomplishments Profiles in Excellence Gift Stories Donor Spotlight Stories of Impact | Where to Give Student Support Excellence in Teaching and Research Capital Construction Schools and Colleges UO Libraries Global Oregon Arts and Culture Athletics Student Life University Venture Development Fund Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Giving Fund Index Highlighting scholarship recipients Knight Campus Latinx Studies | How to Give How to Send Your Gift Annual Giving DuckFunder Estate and Gift Planning Matching Gifts Securities Endowments Year-End Tax Advantages | For Donors Oregon 360 Update Your Email UO Volunteers Awards Upcoming UO Events Inside Oregon Investors' Report | Thank You More than $2 million raised for our annual #DucksGive day of giving Celebrate the Results Stories of Impact A Decade of Giving Celebrate the Stories Outstanding Leadership UO VP Mike Andreasen Receives National Award Read More A Record-Breaking Finish The University of Oregon's $3.24 billion fundraising campaign was the most ambitious fundraising campaign of its kind, both for the university and in the state. Over the course of the campaign, donors stepped up and answered the call, propelling us over the finish line of our $3 billion goal. This campaign spanned a decade and ultimately transformed UO and made lasting impacts across three key areas: Access Excellence Experience Every Gift Counts Your gifts have created momentum. Your belief in excellence has inspired our faculty and students. Ducks like you have made a lasting impact through our campaign. Your gifts will spark the dreams and aspirations of this campus for generations to come. Thank you! 108 percent of $3 billion raised $2.1 billion for faculty, programs, and Knight Campus $427 million for student support $3.24B Raised in total $867.2M Raised in FY 2021 147,081 Total donors to campaign Finding a Better Way The UO’s rigorous academic programs are designed to challenge students, share new knowledge, and offer real-world learning opportunities, in a beautiful campus setting that inspires learning. We couldn’t do it without you! Roger Worthington helps Oregon Law address urgent climate challenges by giving $600,000 to launch a new effort. When we launched in 2014, we set a goal of $2 billion—which we proudly described as audacious. And then, in 2018, we extended the campaign and set our sights even higher for a goal of $3 billion. Curious, collaborative, and creative faculty members open students’ minds to the widest range of possibilities. What helps them flourish? Endowed chairs and professorships. Make a Gift Home Page About Us News Join Our Team UO's Advancement Internship (ALI) Contact Us Government and Community Relations UO Alumni Association Corporate Partnerships Foundation Relations Login/Logout Our Campaign Campaign Priorities Campaign Impact and Accomplishments Profiles in Excellence Gift Stories Donor Spotlight Stories of Impact Where to Give Student Support Excellence in Teaching and Research Capital Construction Schools and Colleges UO Libraries Global Oregon Arts and Culture Athletics Student Life University Venture Development Fund Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Giving Fund Index Highlighting scholarship recipients Knight Campus Latinx Studies How to Give How to Send Your Gift Annual Giving DuckFunder Estate and Gift Planning Matching Gifts Securities Endowments Year-End Tax Advantages For Donors Oregon 360 Update Your Email UO Volunteers Awards Upcoming UO Events Inside Oregon Investors' Report 1720 E. 13th Avenue, Suite 312 Eugene, OR 97403-2253 Phone: 541-346-3016 Fax: 541-346-2574 Email: giving@uoregon.edu Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn © University of Oregon. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy.