Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can art inspire hope during wartime? Arts and Ideas Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel “In a world that is torn by wars, fanaticism, and devastation, art is a mighty tool that helps us fight extremism,” so said Jimmy Keyrouz '16SOA, whose MFA thesis film Nocturne in Black, produced by Felecia Hunter '16SOA, received the Student Academy Award from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Nocturne in Black tells the story of Karim, a young musician living in a war-ravaged Middle Eastern country where music has been banned and Islamist militants have destroyed his piano. Karim befriends Ziad, a child prodigy, and goes on a quest to find his piano’s missing parts. Despite the risks, Karim stays determined to play his piano as an act of civil disobedience, sending a message of hope, freedom, and survival. Keyrouz drew his inspiration from the real-life story of a young Syrian pianist who continued to play despite persecution, using his music to reach out to war victims. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can a play speak for those betrayed by the American dream? A new chapter for the arts at Columbia How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre Creating art for all in New York City's subways See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University