Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can data from old wildfires predict and prevent the next ones? Climate Response Data and Society The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Climate change has contributed to a 300 percent increase in wildfires over the last 30 years, and warming temperatures are expected to fan the flames. A new tool being developed at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory will help scientists predict wildfires, with the potential to drastically improve preparedness and response. Park Williams, an associate research professor and a 2016 Center for Climate and Life Fellow, studies climatology, drought, and wildfires. He is compiling data on tens of thousands of fires over the last 30 to 40 years that burned across the Western US. He will cross-reference this to data sets of where people live and what vegetation grows where. That will result in a computer program projecting how these variables affect the probability of large fires and simulate how vegetation responds to fire. The tool will eventually be able to produce seasonal forecasts of wildfire probabilities. For example, it could be used in late spring to estimate the probability of a large forest fire in the eastern Cascades of Washington the next summer. Such information could be invaluable to land managers and owners who are considering preventative maintenance measures such as prescribed burns or forest thinning. It could also increase public awareness of wildfire risk and prompt people to maintain their yards or plan how to evacuate in case of a fire. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What is the Columbia commitment to climate response? Can we help the economy weather climate change? How can we defend precious marine life? What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? How can we prevent violence caused by climate change? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University