Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we capture data to personalize dental care? Precision Medicine Data and Society Dental Medicine Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia recently opened the Center for Precision Dental Medicine, a new clinic designed to tailor care for each patient more accurately than ever before. With automated chairs and instruments, the clinic captures every aspect of a patient’s visit, from which tools are used to the time spent waiting. The Center is working with data scientists from Columbia Engineering to develop new ways of analyzing the data, which in turn inform clinical practice. “In the past, we expected patients to benefit when 80 percent of the people had a positive response to certain interventions,” said Christian Stohler, dean of the College of Dental Medicine. “Nowadays we would like to be much more specific, to know how a treatment works.” This data-driven analysis will also inform new dental tool development. As students interact with patients, sensors will capture which instruments they use and for how long. This information will be used to see which current tools are meeting students’ needs and where there might be a need for a particular type of instrument that does not yet exist. The Center will serve the upper Manhattan community where it is located, opening the first-ever big-data precision medicine dental clinic to those who have historically lacked equal access to quality dental care. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University