Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why should you try something new every day? The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia scientists have discovered that learning new things can prime the brain for adapting to changing circumstances. Researchers at the Zuckerman Institute had mice navigate simple mazes where the rules for finding rewards changed. Before entering the maze, some of the mice had the opportunity to explore unfamiliar areas or encounter unknown mice. The mice who had a new experience before attempting the maze had more success navigating it. Brain scans of both groups of mice (those with a novel experience prior to the maze and those without that experience) showed that theta waves strengthened in the mice who explored a new environment or met an unfamiliar mouse. Theta waves, which increase during sleep and meditation, help us process information and make memories. In this experiment, the theta waves reprogrammed regions of the brain associated with learning and memory, disrupting established connections to prime the brain for flexibility in the face of novelty. By blocking the brain chemical dopamine to cells in these parts of the brain, the scientists were able to stop the benefits of the mice’s exposure to new environments and mice—they had more difficulty navigating the mazes. Then, the scientists artificially activated the same cells, and the mice received the novelty benefit without any new experiences. These results suggest that focusing on theta waves and dopamine could be helpful for those with neuropsychiatric disorders like schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, or depression, many of whom have trouble being flexible when faced with new situations. The areas of the brain connected with learning and memory-making have been found to be abnormal for many with these disorders, so finding new ways to engage these parts may be crucial to helping them learn and adapt more flexibly. The research also shows the importance of doing something new every day to keep our brains ready to learn. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? How can research opportunities bring more women to the field of neuroscience? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University