Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us How to Give Philanthropy is the fuel of all great modern universities. Your investment in NC State drives us from good to extraordinary. Ways to Give By giving to NC State, you can have an immediate impact on a world-class institution or leave an enduring legacy. Our university offers a variety of opportunities for you to support an area of your choice, in a way that works for you. Give Today Support NC State by making an immediate impact with a gift online, by phone or by mail. Planned Gifts Planned gifts offer creative, flexible strategies for your estate and charitable planning. Matching Gifts Many employers match gifts to higher education. Find out if your employer will match your gift today. Endowments Endowments provide donors with opportunities to create living legacies that touch the lives of future generations for years to come. Annual Giving Each year, gifts from alumni, parents, faculty, staff, friends and students like you allow NC State to increase scholarships, strengthen curricula, fund community service projects, enrich the libraries and sponsor the arts. Learn More Meet our Development Officers Connect with a member of our development staff to learn more about how you can get involved and help support the mission of NC State. Our development officers are standing by to help you fulfill your philanthropic interests and goals by identifying causes, programs or colleges at NC State that are meaningful to you. They can help you plan a gift that suits your needs and answer any questions you may have. Meet our Team Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.