About Texas Development Apply About Texas Development Apply Change the World Join Texas Development, one of the best fundraising programs in public higher education. Follow your passion, grow your career and help us change the world at one of the world’s leading universities, in the U.S.’ most exciting city. Explore Opportunities Hear from Texas Development team members “I love how Texas Development brings together an amazing group of colleagues with different backgrounds and experiences. The teams I work with are passionate, creative, professional — and fun!” – Dawn Sanchez Associate Director of Development, Corporate Relations “There’s so much opportunity within Texas Development. We’ve only scratched the surface of exciting, innovative projects.” – Neelesh Tekal Sr. Business Intelligence Engineer “I feel that public higher education systems are well positioned to be agents of change in their state and to provide a world-class education to those who wish to pursue it. I wholeheartedly believe in our mission.” – Caitlin Ziegert McCombs Associate Director of Development, College of Fine Arts Texas Development brings together talented professionals with diverse backgrounds and experiences to support the students, faculty and programs that change the world. Whether you’re new to fundraising or looking to advance your career, there’s a place for you in Texas Development. Follow Your Passion Texas Development brings together talented professionals with diverse backgrounds and experiences to support the students, faculty and programs that change the world. Whether you’re new to fundraising or looking to advance your career, there’s a place for you in Texas Development. Follow Your Passion About Texas Development  Work at one of the world’s highest-impact public research universities, unleashing knowledge, opportunity and innovation from the heart of Texas. What Starts Here Campaign  The What Starts Here campaign is the most ambitious fundraising effort in our university’s, and state’s, history. Working at UT  UT offers competitive salaries, 100% employer-paid health care, matching retirement programs, university holidays and PTO, professional development and the chance to be at the center of it all in Austin, Texas. Ready to change the world? Contact a Recruiter Explore Job Openings giving.utexas.edu What Starts Here Apply Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback