Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we help Parkinson's patients avoid falls? Schematic of Columbia Engineering's robot-driven Tethered Pelvic Assist Device (TPAD). A patient with Parkinson's disease uses the TPAD training to improve stability while walking. Photo: Sunil Agrawal/Columbia Engineering The Future of Neuroscience Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Parkinson’s disease often disrupts patients’ balance while they are walking, leading to repeated falls. In fact, people with Parkinson’s disease are two times as likely to fall as healthy adults of the same age. Sunil Agrawal, a Columbia professor of mechanical engineering, and his team have been helping Parkinson’s patients improve their balance through training, using a robotic system, Tethered Pelvic Assist Device (TPAD), a lightweight belt attached to the pelvis. Patients wore the TPAD as they walked on a treadmill, allowing researchers to exert force from a range of directions to evaluate the patients’ ability to respond to sudden changes. Then, the researchers took the patients through a balance training routine before subjecting them to the same routine of unpredictable changes in pressure. After a single session of training, Parkinson’s patients were able to increase their stability, improving their walking stride and ability to react to sudden disruptions. These findings point the way to the development of new training programs that prepare those diagnosed with Parkinson’s to maintain balance and avoid falls. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Will a chip reverse blindness? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University