Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home What can a play reveal about the illegal ivory trade? Arts and Ideas Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Mlima’s Tale, a new play from two-time Pulitzer Prize winner and Columbia School of the Arts theatre professor Lynn Nottage, tells the story of Mlima, one of the last great tusker elephants in Kenya. The play explores what drives the illegal ivory market, traveling with the trade after Mlima is poached, from a game park in Kenya to an upscale store in China. Nottage introduces the audience to a wide range of characters along this journey, from a Somali poacher to a Vietnamese trader and American ship captain. Some kill and traffic in elephants out of desperation, trying to feed their families. Others, Nottage said, are motivated by greed. This focus on character also distinguishes Nottage’s last play, Sweat, recipient of the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for drama. Sweat, which follows a group of Pennsylvania steelworkers in an age of industrial decline, amplifies the voices of those who feel abandoned by the American dream. In Mlima’s Tale, as in Sweat, Nottage looks for what builds community, and what can tear it apart. While writing the play, she came to identify with elephants’ struggle to survive while under siege. She says, “We all know elephants from a distance, but they’re incredibly social, very protective of each other—they’re not dissimilar from us.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can storytelling help AI be more human? How can art inspire hope during wartime? A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Creating art for all in New York City's subways See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University