Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Facilities Facilities Facilities represent an essential part of Syracuse University’s Campus Framework, a visionary roadmap meant to guide future campus planning and development for the next 20 years. The campus growth and renewal efforts laid out in the Campus Framework will further distinguish Syracuse for excellence in teaching, learning, research and scholarship, and advance our standing as an academically distinguished, student-focused, international research university. 119 Euclid Ave. With the opening of 119 Euclid, Syracuse University has created a new opportunity to support diversity, equity and inclusion in all aspects of the student experience. The Barnes Center at The Arch As the hub for student wellness, the newly opened Barnes Center at The Arch features programs, services and offerings that promote holistic health and well-being, all in one accessible, centralized space on campus. National Veterans Resource Center The National Veterans Resource Center at the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Building (NVRC) represents an unprecedented commitment by Syracuse University to cultivate and lead innovative academic, government, and community collaborations positioned to empower those who have served in defense of the nation. Schine Student Center The transformed Hildegarde and J. Myer Schine Student Center is a welcoming, inclusive and fully accessible gathering place designed to further enhance the student experience. Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top