Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Maureen E. Raymo Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Bruce C. Heezen/Lamont Research Professor; Director, Lamont-Doherty Core Repository My commitment: Understanding and communicating the effects of sea-level rise so people can make good decisions about the future In the summer of 2011, I landed at Lamont, returning to the same Columbia labs where I earned my PhD in 1989. There, I direct one of the largest deep-sea sediment core repositories in the world, Lamont-Doherty Core Repository. I focus on how global warming is causing polar ice sheets to melt and how this is causing oceans to rise around the world. If even 10 percent of the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets melted, the resulting 6 meter (or twenty foot) sea-level rise would drown most of our major coastal cities. Using GPS and other instruments, I work with my students to map ancient shorelines around the world and determine where sea level stood three million years ago, when global average temperatures were 1°C to 2°C warmer than today—a mark we could reach by 2100. A huge amount of real estate and people are found within this at-risk zone. People have this vague idea that they’ll be able to deal with rising seas and keep the ocean back. One just needs to visit Venice to appreciate how difficult such a task would be. What we do know is that sea level is rising, and the rate of that rise is accelerating. I want to better understand the behavior of ice sheets and sea-level change so people and governments can make good decisions about the future. Keep up with Maureen Raymo: @moraymo Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can accurate rainfall data help farmers insure their land? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University