Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Precision Medicine Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia University Irving Medical Center researchers have created a computational tool that accurately and rapidly predicts the genes involved in an individual’s cancer to identify the best treatments. The new tool is called integrated CAncer GEnome Score (iCAGES), and it identifies personal cancer “drivers” 77 percent of the time—drivers are mutations within a gene that promote cancer development. Other computational tools have a success rate of about 51 percent. In just 30 minutes, iCAGES can identify FDA-approved or experimental drugs likely to target that individual’s genetic causes of cancer. In a retrospective test involving a patient with lung cancer, iCAGES selected the top drug candidate out of 122 possible treatments, arriving at the same conclusion the patient’s oncologists reached through a much lengthier process. Among the most comprehensive tools of its kind, iCAGES is also the first to incorporate a user-friendly web interface that requires little knowledge of bioinformatics, making it accessible to clinicians. Learn More Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Can hair loss be reversed? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University