Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Corporate and Foundation Relations Where Collaboration Accelerates Innovation At NC State, ideas become solutions. Our 9,000 faculty and staff are world leaders in their fields, bridging the divides between academic disciplines and training high-caliber students to meet the challenges of tomorrow. NC State students, faculty and staff take problems at hand and work with industry, government and nonprofit partners to solve them. The Office of Corporate & Foundation Relations team fosters and strengthens these relationships which are critical to the support and advancement of the university. The Corporate & Foundation Relations team at NC State connects innovative organizations and great minds to think and do the extraordinary. Our goal is to be an integral part of the process by building and strengthening opportunities that will produce the next generation of innovation thinkers that can make a difference to society. Whether your organization is seeking brilliant minds and top talent or breakthrough ideas, NC State is a valuable resource for organizations that are looking to grow and make advancements. A deeper relationship with NC State University can take shape in a myriad of ways and we can help you navigate these opportunities. Our office offers corporate and foundation partners a pathway to explore the breadth and depth of NC State’s priorities and strengths while also developing meaningful engagement opportunities. Industry Collaborations Faculty and Staff Meet our Team Krista Barezinsky kbarezi@ncsu.edu 614-460-0587 Thomas Manshack Associate Director thomas_manshack@ncsu.edu 919-515-8818 Corporate and Foundation Relations More News VF Corporation and NC State Announce Strategic, Multiyear Partnership The partnership will create new opportunities for students and boost research on textiles and apparel. Read More $2 Million Golden LEAF Gift Bolsters N.C. Food Processing Innovation Center A $2.2 million grant from the Golden LEAF Foundation will allow the NC Food Processing and Innovation Center to purchase equipment for NC State’s Kannapolis facility. Read More Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.