Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Anorexia has the highest mortality rate of any mental illness, but the biological mechanisms that underpin this illness are little understood. Two Columbia researchers have discovered differences in the brains of anorexia patients that help explain how the brain dictates food choices and restricts eating. "For most people, we choose food based on how tasty it is. But patients with anorexia nervosa restrict what they eat," said Joanna Steinglass, associate professor of clinical psychiatry. "This illness has a biological basis. Studying food choice is a really nice pathway to find the brain mechanisms of restrictive eating." Steinglass and psychology professor Daphna Shohamy, a principal investigator at the Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, tracked brain activity in anorexic patients in a recent study. Using fMRI scanning, Steinglass and Shohamy measured activity in the striatum, an area of the brain involved in decision-making. As anorexia patients and women in a control group made food choices, the dorsal striatum of the anorexia patients lit up, in contrast with the control group. The patterns of activation resembled those in people suffering from substance abuse, suggesting that for anorexia patients, the striatum creates a neural routine of rewarding restrictive eating. This routine triggers automatic behavior, making it much harder to make conscious food choices. Interrupting this routine may be key to finding new treatments for anorexia. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Will a chip reverse blindness? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University