Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? The Future of Neuroscience Engineering Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel To detect football players’ concussions as they happen, Columbia researchers are developing what would be the first wearable diagnostic device for traumatic brain injury. This device, called the NoMo, will allow real-time monitoring of brain activity through electroencephalography (EEG) sensors, which are commonly used in hospitals to measure a patient’s brain activity. These sensors are placed between the pads of a football helmet. When they detect the patterns of a traumatic brain injury, they alert a computer on the sidelines. Because the NoMo monitors brain activity, it provides a more accurate concussion diagnosis than accelerometers, which measure the physical intensity of hits against players. James Noble, a Columbia neurologist, designed the NoMo with Columbia biomedical engineer Barclay Morrison. “This will eliminate a lot of the problems you have now with coaches, athletic trainers, and team physicians having to make fairly subjective judgments about who should be removed from a game to receive a full neurological evaluation,” said Noble. Based on a test at a Columbia football practice last year, Noble and Morrison are developing a smaller version to fit more comfortably in helmets. They anticipate the NoMo could detect concussions in other contact sports like hockey and lacrosse, and also be fitted inside military helmets to assess injuries. “The beauty of our design is that it doesn’t matter what causes the concussion,” says Morrison. “If you experience a traumatic brain injury, a red light will go off on a computer and tell someone you need help.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University