Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Graduation Private support empowers our graduates for a lifetime of success and impact — throughout North Carolina and beyond. Each semester, NC State graduates an extraordinary group of people who will make a difference across North Carolina — and beyond. Our donors help ensure that these students have the experiences and opportunities vital to becoming career-ready citizens and lifelong learners. From study abroad to working in a lab, and from excelling in service to representing the university at conferences, our graduating seniors have done it all. Learn more about how private support over the past several years has helped prepare students to leave NC State ready to lead in their work, in the community and in life. Rising Starr Starr Gibens is an expert at putting thought into action. The first-generation college graduate came to NC State with a list of what she wanted to accomplish, and she has done so much more as a leader, community member, scholarship recipient and advocate for her fellow students. Read more Weaving a Bright Future Private support enabled Lara Rabinowitz ’22 to study on campus and abroad during her time at NC State, all while combining seemingly different majors in seamless ways. Now she’s taking her (very) unique skillset out West for an exciting new career opportunity. Read more A Perfect Circle Park Scholar Loujain Al Samara ’22 pursued a broad range of experiences during her four years at NC State, and she graduates this May with a new understanding of what she has learned, how she has grown and what comes next. Read more Leaving a Legacy Dylan Inman ’22 is off to Indianapolis to work for his fraternity, Theta Chi, as a growth specialist. But as an enthusiastic member of the Wolfpack, Inman says his long-term goal is to find a road that leads back to NC State. Read more Ambassador for Optimism During his four years at NC State, Goodnight Scholar Vitus Putra '22 not only challenged himself academically but also helped others through service and enriched the lives of those around him with his upbeat, positive outlook. Read more Setting the Bar(s) High Scholarship support helped Lauren Kent '21 excel in the classroom and in competition as a business administration major and four-time All-EAGL Scholastic Team gymnast. Read more The Gift That Keeps On Giving Giovanny Hernandez was inspired to teach by his time spent tutoring friends in high school. Now, with the help of a special scholarship, this College of Education standout is preparing to graduate in May 2021 and become a full-time educator. Read more Home Is Where the Pack Is Though Sydney Floryanzia ’21 originally wondered if NC State was too close to home, she found numerous opportunities to grow and expand her horizons as a chemical engineering major, thanks to private support. Read more A Healthy Pursuit With scholarship support, College of Sciences senior Dhuru Patel '21 embraced a range of academic, extracurricular and service opportunities that cemented his decision to pursue a medical career and his determination to give back. Read more Through the Darkness to Shine a Light To become the first in her family to earn a degree, Esmira Poladova persevered through tragedy and challenges and, as an NC State senior, class of 2020, even became an advocate for other underresourced students. Read more No Limits Goodnight Scholar Alex Rojas ’20 is applying skills developed in the scholarship program to an internship at BioMedomics, where he leads a team assembling and shipping out boxes of rapid COVID-19 tests. Read more Graduating without Regrets Being a Park Scholar has given Abby Scheper '20 the opportunities and the confidence to lead and serve while excelling as a philosophy major with three minors. Read more Commissioned for Success Receiving the Textile Military Scholarship didn't just enhance Garrett Welsh's NC State experience – it served as a vote of a confidence in his abilities and confirmation that his work in the classroom and as a member of the Naval ROTC hadn't gone unnoticed. After May 2020 graduation, he planned to applies the skills he learned to a career in the Navy. Read more Surrounded by Support at the CVM Amanda Maxwell '20 chose to attend the College of Veterinary Medicine not just for its reputation, but for its equally strong community. With support from faculty, classmates and donors, she is ready for the next step in her career as a laboratory animal veterinarian. Read more An Extraordinary Pathway to Success Goodnight Scholars Christian Williams and Oscar Molina are heading in different directions after May 2020 graduation: vet school at the College of Veterinary Medicine and a role at Deutsche Bank. Both of these next steps were made possible through the Goodnight Scholars Program’s transfer pathway, created in 2017. Read more Getting Ready for the Real World Internships and other opportunities at NC State are helping Park Scholar and computer science major Jasmine Wang '19 shape a path toward project management. Read more A Vision for Doing Good Layne Baker, a first-generation college student from rural North Carolina graduating in December 2019, used his time at NC State and in the Caldwell Fellows program to show others in a similar situation that college is attainable for them as well. Read more From Student to CEO Park Scholar Emily Neville graduates from NC State in December 2019 with a bachelor’s degree – and a growing textiles business that she started as a sophomore. Read more A Passion for Producing Beneficial Reactions NC State alumna Natalie Sherwood '19 makes a connection between her love for theater and her love of polymer and color chemistry – with a little boost from philanthropy. Read more A Shared Path to Success Study abroad, hands-on projects at the College of Natural Resources, scholarship support and friendship have helped prepare Cashie Naylor '19 and Emily Fletcher '19 for their next steps. Read more Engineering a Passion for Service Asa Augustin '19 graduates this month with an engineering degree — and a commitment to helping others, thanks to extraordinary experiences in the Goodnight Scholars Program. Read more A Chemical Chain Reaction Scholarship support gave senior chemistry major Kaylie Kirkwood '19 more time to work in the lab of David Muddiman, which has led to professional opportunities and her next adventure: pursuing a Ph.D. at NC State. Read more A Dream Taking Flight Tyler Haritan '19 says scholarship support helped him navigate NC State’s Naval ROTC program and set him up for success as he chases his dream of becoming a fighter pilot. Read more An Educator Right Where She Needed to Be Innovative professors and support including the Augustus Witherspoon Graduate Fellowship ensured that the College of Education was the right place for LaTeisha Jeannis, Ph.D. '19 – four times over. Read more Achieving Sustainable Success In the College of Natural Resources, graduating senior Mary Paz Alvarez Valverde '19 discovered a passion for understanding “trash” and its significance in today’s world. Read more A Spirit of Adventure Being a Shelton National Scholar and Centennial Scholar helped Samantha Casey '18 broaden her horizons, embrace her opportunities and develop her leadership abilities. Read more Staying in Rhythm Goodnight Scholar Carl Jenkins '18 found a home in electrical engineering, while pursuing his passion for percussion. Read more Designing a Strong Future The Eduardo J. Catalano Scholarship helped Joshua Putnam '18 achieve his longtime dream of becoming an architect. Read more A Diplomatic Life A study abroad experience, supported by a scholarship, helped shape Kensley Cox '18’s post-NC State plans to work in human resources. Read more Aiming High and Serving Well Goodnight Scholar Dominique Weatherspoon '18 is graduating this week with a degree in mathematics and a lot of extraordinary NC State experiences to remember. Read more Cultivating Community Deirdre An '18, who soon begins work in California as a viticulturist, found a family and a focus as a Park Scholar at NC State. Meet Deirdre A CVM Road Scholar Private support allowed Olivia Myers, DVM '18 to explore swine health from many angles and earn her degree from NC State’s College of Veterinary Medicine. Read more A Platform to Excel Anu Hanumanthu '17 is preparing to graduate in May and begin medical school, but the aspiring physician will never forget the nurturing and welcoming community she found as an undergraduate at NC State. Read more Data-Driven Future Thanks in part to receiving Poole College of Management’s John Deere Marketing Award scholarship and to being a student-athlete, Joshua Gandy '17 recalibrated his road ahead through extraordinary leadership and service opportunities. Read more Born to Teach With the support of the Moshakos Family Teacher Education Scholarship, Melissa Goto '17 is graduating with a degree in elementary education. Read more Serving as a Role Model The desire to make a difference is part of what makes Jessica Kraus '17, a graduating senior in parks, recreation and tourism management, the perfect fit among NC State University’s Caldwell Fellows. Read more Call of the Wild Private support in the form of scholarships and awards helped Sam Freeze '16 turn his passion for wildlife into a career. Read more Speaking Her Language Jessica Hatcher '16's participation in study abroad and undergraduate research changed her life, along with private support. Read more Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.