Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Racial Justice and Abolition Democracy Curriculum Project Established at Columbia University The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Awards $5 Million Grant to Develop National Curriculum Addressing Racial Inequities in Criminal Justice System Project co-leader Professor Bruce Western Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia University will develop a model curriculum—“Racial Justice and Abolition Democracy”—to address racial inequality in the criminal justice system thanks to a $5 million, three-year grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. In partnership with community organizations and higher education institutions across the country, the upper-level curriculum seeks to redress the history of racialized punishment in the United States. The project’s co-leaders are Bernard E. Harcourt, Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law and Professor of Political Science, and Bruce Western, Chair and Bryce Professor of Sociology and Social Justice as well as Co-Director of the Justice Lab. “Racism is our nation’s foundational sin and, in 2021, remains the defining challenge the United States must overcome to fulfill the promise of our democracy,” said University President Lee C. Bollinger. “This project addresses an urgent and palpable need, and we are grateful for the Mellon Foundation’s partnership and support.” As part of the Mellon Foundation’s Just Futures Initiative, Columbia this year was among 16 awardees of Mellon grants totaling more than $72 million. The Initiative supports teams of scholars who are studying past periods of crisis and disruption in order to lead to cultural and social transformation. “Through extraordinary collaborative exploration and rigorous humanities-driven inquiry, the Just Futures Initiative will expand our collective understanding of our country’s history,” said Mellon Foundation President Elizabeth Alexander. “We are thrilled that the work of these multidisciplinary teams will propose and implement solutions to real social problems, and also mark new milestones in the effort to better capture the contributions of the many different communities that make up the American story.” As the largest supporter of the arts and humanities in the United States, the Mellon Foundation seeks to build just communities where ideas and imagination can thrive. To this end, their core programs support exemplary and inspiring institutions of higher education and culture. The “Racial Justice and Abolition Democracy” curriculum will be available for use in universities and colleges, prisons, and community settings. The project will engage undergraduates and graduate students, as well as community partners, in justice projects. Many of the courses will have a practical or clinical component to combine theory and practice. In addition, the leadership and expertise of people and communities most impacted by racial injustice and the justice system will be centered to address racism and inequity in the justice system, academic and research settings, and society broadly; and to create a climate of vibrancy and urgency in the university community on such issues. Harcourt is a leading critical theorist with a particular interest in punishment, political economy, and abolition democracy. He is the founding director of the Initiative for a Just Society at the Columbia Center for Contemporary Critical Thought, which brings theory to bear on current social problems. Western is a renowned public sociologist whose research has examined the causes, scope, and consequences of the historic growth in US prison populations. He also leads the Square One Project, which aims to re-imagine the public policy response to violence under conditions of poverty and racial equality. “The time for a Racial Justice and Abolition Democracy curriculum has rarely been more urgent. I am grateful to realize this project with Bruce Western as we combat a criminal law field in crisis to build a more just future,” said Harcourt. “The Mellon Foundation’s support will be fundamental to this ambitious effort.” “The country’s police, courts, and prisons have too often caused real harm in communities of color,” said Western. “As researchers and educators, Professor Harcourt and I are dedicated to bringing together diverse groups to problem solve for today and tomorrow, starting in the classroom and with communities on the ground.” Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University