Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Giving Search $5M endowment gift supports student access A $5 million gift from Irene Rosenfeld ’75, MS ’77, PhD ’80 and Richard Illgen will establish the Rosenfeld/Illgen Scholarship and support the university’s efforts to make Cornell even more affordable for students from all backgrounds. This gift, Irene says, aligns perfectly with the couple’s passion for education. “Cornell played a key role in shaping … Read more By Kaitlin Provost May 26, 2022 $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships Read the full story by Kathy Hovis in the Cornell Chronicle. A $10 million gift from Robert S. Harrison ’76 will enhance the College Scholar Program in the College of Arts and Sciences and support undergraduate scholarships. Harrison, chair of the Cornell Board of Trustees and former CEO of the Clinton Global Initiative, was a … Read more By AAD Staff May 2, 2022 Major gift endows Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in AAP Read the full story by James Dean in the Cornell Chronicle. A foundational gift has endowed and named the Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in the College of Architecture, Art and Planning (AAP), advancing research, teaching and partnerships dedicated to fostering more sustainable and just cities. The largest single gift to AAP to date, … Read more By AAD Staff April 19, 2022 Donors give over $12 million to support students in just 24 hours Thousands of donors participated in the eighth Cornell Giving Day on March 16. Throughout the day, 15,905 alumni, students, faculty, staff, parents, and friends from over 80 countries made gifts totaling a record-breaking $12,268,629. “The thousands of gifts made on Giving Day will help Cornell continue to do the greatest good for our students, and … Read more By Kaitlin Provost March 21, 2022 $10M gift boosts quantum science at Cornell Read the full story by Syl Kacapyr in the Cornell Chronicle. A $10 million gift from David W. Meehl ’72, MBA ’74 will grow the roster of faculty, students and equipment needed to study the mysterious behavior of matter at atomic and subatomic scales, strengthening the university’s position as a leader in quantum science and … Read more By AAD Staff March 8, 2022 Gift from Delta Gamma supports Women’s Resource Center A recent gift from Cornell’s Chi Chapter of Delta Gamma will create an annual speaker series for the Cornell Women’s Resource Center, and provide funding for the series in perpetuity. The Women’s Resource Center, a welcoming and inclusive space on campus, has a mission to support both the personal and educational pursuits of women-identified students. … Read more By Kaitlin Provost February 16, 2022 Donors leverage scholarship challenge to support undergraduates As part of Cornell’s To Do the Greatest Good campaign, the university launched an initiative to make a Cornell education even more affordable for talented students from all socioeconomic backgrounds. The university has committed $50 million to match undergraduate affordability endowment gifts of at least $250,000, or gifts of $150,000 or more from alumni who … Read more By Kaitlin Provost February 3, 2022 Historic gift funds deanship and research at the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Read the full story by Janice Endresen from the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business. A historic $15 million gift from Joanne Knight in honor of her late husband, Charles “Chuck” Field Knight ’57, BME ’58, MBA ’59, has established the Charles Field Knight Deanship of the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business and provides … Read more By AAD Staff February 2, 2022 New $1.5M fellowship honors bioacoustics pioneer Read the full story by Pat Leonard in the Cornell Chronicle. A new $1.5 million gift from philanthropist K. Lisa Yang ’74 has established the Christopher W. Clark Postdoctoral Fellowship in Conservation Bioacoustics in honor of Clark, the retired director of the bioacoustics program at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology. The announcement of the new … Read more By AAD Staff December 17, 2021 Alumni gift supports doctoral students in the humanities Read the full story by Kathy Hovis in the Cornell Chronicle. A $5 million alumni gift will help to support doctoral students in humanities fields within the College of Arts and Sciences. The Zhu Family Graduate Fellowships in the Humanities will recognize and support a select group of high-potential graduate students in their fourth or … Read more By AAD Staff December 15, 2021 Show More Seasonal Zoom backgrounds 🌸 Spring is here on campus! Give your virtual meetings a little Cornell color and download these Zoom backgrounds. Download Photo: Jason Koski (UREL) Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022