Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Wendy Chung Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Kennedy Family Associate Professor of Pediatrics in Medicine My commitment: Diagnosing and treating rare genetic diseases Precision medicine is an opportunity for all of us who practice medicine to do it even better—to get you the right diagnosis, and the right treatment, more accurately than ever before. With the decoding of the human genome, we have a huge amount of information about how the body works, so we can do more than just respond to disease—we can tell if you have a predisposition for a disease, and we can do something to keep you healthy. We’re developing new methods to diagnose patients even faster—even prenatally and in newborns, so if necessary, we can start treatments right away and prevent children from getting sick in the first place. I want to put us out of business. I want to prevent diseases, so we can keep people healthy, keep them doing other things rather than coming to see doctors. I’ve been referred to as the court of last resort—seeing patients who have spent time and energy lost looking for answer. And we can help get to a diagnosis and, more importantly, get to the right treatments and supports. When you don’t know what else to do, go to Columbia. Keep up with Columbia University Medical Center: @ColumbiaMed Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Can curing rare cancers cure all cancers in one day? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University