Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Just Societies - Engage Page Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Just Societies Join us in building a more equitable and inclusive world From incarceration to immigration, get involved with social justice issues at Columbia. Sign up for our newsletter, attend an event, or volunteer as part of your Just Societies Commitment at Columbia. Subscribe Want updates on how Columbia students, faculty, and alumni are building a more just world? Use the form below to sign up for our newsletter Just Societies Highlights. Or check out our past issues. • June 2021: Pride of Lions • February 2021: Reaching across Borders • December 2020: A Columbia for All • October 2020: Remembering Justice Ginsburg • June 2020: Columbians Respond to Anti-Black Racism • May 2020: COVID-19 and Social Justice • March 2020: Reaching Beyond Columbia • January 2020: Local Meets Global • November 2019: Whose Voices Are Heard? • September 2019: Humanizing Criminal Justice • June 2019: Pride of Lions • April 2019: The Justice Ivy? • February 2019: Justice and the University Attend Please note: In light of the coronavirus (COVID-19), the University is following cancelling, offering online, or postponing events. If you have questions, please contact the event sponsor. Join Columbia justice events or watch past ones. • June 23: "We All Can Lead: Finding Our Own Roles in Creating Change" hosted by the Columbia Black Alumni Council. A discussion about anti-Black violence, systemic racism, and police brutality as well as the recent widespread Black Lives Matter protests. Open to all. • June 11: "Forum on Black Lives Matter, Protest, and Creating Change" hosted by University Life with faculty from across Columbia, including Professor of Journalism Jelani Cobb, Professor of Sociomedical Sciences Robert Fullilove, and Associate Professor of Social Work Courtney Cogburn (Recorded on June 11, 2020) • March 24: "A Justice Perspective on Field Education" with Ovita Williams, associate director of field education, to learn about how instructors can work to undo racism. Watch Just Societies Facebook LIVE Tune into past Just Societies Facebook LIVE programs with faculty from the School of Social Work and schools across the University. • Health and Human Rights with Professor Maya Sabatello and Anindita Dasgupta (Recorded April 23, 2019) • Where the Rubber Hits the Road: Social Justice in American Cities with Professor Esther Fuchs and Mayor Michael Tubbs (Recorded April 18, 2019) Search Justice Events Volunteer Through alumni volunteer opportunities, join a global community of Columbians committed to justice. Filter by your passion and location to see how to make a difference. Volunteer Dig Deeper Learn how Columbia is working to create fair, equitable societies, starting on campus. From teaching people in prisons to giving legal aid to immigrants, find out how we're addressing urgent justice issues. Learn More Make Your Commitment to Just Societies Give Now Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University