Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Arts and Ideas Just Societies Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Beyond his Columbia students, Chris Washburne, associate professor of music, shares the joys of music with another group of unlikely pupils: inmates at Sing Sing Correctional facility. For more than 15 years, Washburne has worked with Carnegie Hall’s Musical Connections program, using music to improve the lives of inmates and better prepare them for re-entry into their communities. Many inmate participants—with little or no previous musical training—have since developed as musicians and composers, moving from singing simple vocal improvisations to learning instruments and developing their knowledge of music theory. The program also reaches the 1,600 incarcerated men in the general Sing Sing population who experience a final concert put on by the program members. “It’s using music as a form of catharsis, as transformation, showing alternative possibilities in life,” said Washburne. “I’ve played at Carnegie Hall, at Lincoln Center, at famous venues all over the world, but this is different. I feel like I’m making a real difference in people’s lives.” Learn more. Related Podcast: All that Jazz Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can art inspire hope during wartime? A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Can a play speak for those betrayed by the American dream? Creating art for all in New York City's subways Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University