Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we tailor bladder cancer treatments to patients? Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia researchers have created patient-specific models of bladder cancer, called organoids, which mimic many of the characteristics of actual tumors. These organoids, tiny 3-D spheres derived from a patient’s own tumor, hold the potential of showing how a patient will react to particular therapies, making it possible to provide the most effective treatment. Bladder cancer is the fifth most prevalent cancer in the United States, but it is understudied, making it very difficult to know beforehand exactly which drugs may be most effective for a given patient. Study co-author James M. McKiernan, the John K. Lattimer Professor of Urology and chair of urology, said, “This should greatly improve our understanding of the genomics of bladder cancer, how these tumors respond to drugs, and how they develop drug resistance.” “The great advantage of organoids is that they are essentially avatars of a patient’s tumor,” said study leader Michael M. Shen, professor of medicine, genetics & development, urology, and systems biology. He and his team created the organoids—after surgery, patients' tumor tissues were placed in culture. After they grew miniature organoids in petri dishes, the researchers introduced different drugs and analyzed the organoids’ responses to these compounds. They discovered, for example, that certain mutations in the organoids predicted a better response to a particular combination of drugs. Next, Shen and McKiernan will test the organoids’ predictive abilities in trials that will treat patients and their corresponding organoids with the same drug. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will new methods accelerate the discovery of cancer treatments? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University