Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How do ancient works inspire students’ creativity? Arts and Ideas Columbia College Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia recently announced the 2017 Core Scholars, undergraduate students who have been recognized for their creative reflections on Columbia’s Core Curriculum. Since 1919, Columbia has required all undergraduates take part in the Core: small, discussion-based seminars that explore foundational texts, works, and ideas in literature, philosophy, history, music, art, writing, and science. The Core offers students a grounding in the past while engaging them with the works' central questions: What does it mean, and what has it meant, to be part of a community? What do we think is, and what have we thought to be, worth knowing? With the 2011 creation of the Core Scholars Program, Columbia offered students yet another way to engage with the Core. The program recognizes exceptional creative responses to the Core Curriculum—works that question, dramatize, and interpret Core materials to heighten understanding, connect between works, and relate the Core to our contemporary world. Scholars have produced the full range of creative projects, from films, musical compositions, and dances to poems, paintings, and photography. One 2017 Scholar, Tiffany Troy '18CC, created an extended poetic exploration of those excluded from the canon in “I’m a Rollin’.” Troy places Sojourner Truth, Frederick Douglass, and Mahatma Gandhi at the center of traditional poetic forms to animate an often deliberately silenced past. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can skateboard art fight stereotypes? How can art inspire hope during wartime? How has the move to Manhattanville connected community artists and the public? Will listening better to patients’ stories improve healthcare? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University