Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Cornell designated class funds Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Gifts from abroad Matching gifts Senior Class Campaign Foundation Relations & Corporate Philanthropy Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Strategic financial planning for your Cornell philanthropy Make a Gift of Securities Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Smart gift plans Personal assets The Cayuga Society Our team Subscribe to our newsletter Resources An easy way to give from your IRA If you are over the age of 70 1/2, you can easily make a charitable gift in the form of a cash distribution from your IRA. Use our tool and give from your IRA today Libe Slope and McGraw Tower in fall. Lindsay France (UREL) A tradition of philanthropy Your giving advances Cornell University’s mission and continues a tradition of philanthropy that established Cornell, and continues to thrive. We can help you expand your philanthropy with knowledge, confidence, and tools to help develop your gift plan. Let us help you Learn how smart plans work Planned gifts come in many forms that can help you with your personal financial goals, such as paying an income or protecting your assets, while giving to Cornell. Here are the most popular financial tools for gift planning and how each works. Turn assets into giving You can create a gift plan using a variety of your personal assets. We will guide you through options that will allow you to take care of your family and make your other financial goals. By using a variety of assets, you may be able to do more for Cornell than you think you can. Find the resources you need Our team is committed to sharing timely and relevant resources that strengthen your understanding of planned gifts and the legal provisions that affect charitable giving. Review the provided literature and explore your choices with our gift planning calculator. If any one of the gift strategies seems right for you please contact us for assistance. Join the Cayuga Society We celebrate Cayuga Society members through special events and small acts of recognition. There is no minimum gift level and membership is for your lifetime. We need only know that you have made a planned gift for Cornell and, if you wish, we can keep your membership anonymous. Many gift planning documents require the following information about Cornell. Legal Name Cornell University Federal Tax Identification Number 15-0532082 Mailing address Office of Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 (800) 481-1865 Have questions? Email us People changing lives at Cornell Giving $5M gift launches Duffield Family Cornell Promise Scholarship July 31, 2020 Giving Elizabeth Miller Francis ’47 June 15, 2020 Giving David Strip ’77, PhD ’78 is filling in the gaps for indigenous students February 12, 2020 Gift planning quick links Make a gift of securities Make an IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution (QCD) Obtain sample bequest language Grant funds from your donor-advised fund Financial planning disclaimer The discussion herein is general in nature and may not apply to all individuals. Prospective donors are urged to consult their personal tax and financial advisors concerning the specific consequences of making gifts to Cornell University. We would be pleased to discuss, in confidence, ways in which you may support Cornell University. These measures may also have an impact on your estate planning. Contact us Stay in touch Subscribe to our newsletter, Vested Interest, and get gift planning insights delivered to you by email or regular mail. Sign up for our newsletter Flowers bloom in the A D White garden in fall. Photo: Robert Barker (UREL) In good company Planned gifts are the ultimate expression of confidence in Cornell. Join the many friends and alumni that have established a planned gift for Cornell today. Join Cayuga Society Sailing on Cayuga Lake. Photo: Robert Barker (UREL) The SECURE Act 2019 Learn more about The SECURE Act of 2019 and its impact on retirement and estate planning practices. Download the factsheet Central campus on a sunny day. Photo: Credit: Robert Barker (UREL) Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022