Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? Wise Elders Portraiture Class at Centro Tyrone Guzman. 'En Familia hay Fuerza,' mural on the history of Immigrant farm labor to the United States (2017). Oil on linen. Image courtesy of Aliza Nisenbaum; Mary Mary, Glasgow and Minneapolis Institute of Art, Minneapolis Just Societies Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel “I was always interested in how ethics comes into painting, and about the politics of visibility—how people are usually seen or depicted,” says artist and Columbia professor Aliza Nisenbaum, whose portraits of largely invisible, undocumented immigrants shook up the 2017 Whitney Biennial. “I was trying to show another side of that.” From 2012 to 2016, Nisenbaum painted portraits of undocumented immigrants from Mexico and Central America whom she met at Immigrant Movement International, a community space in Queens. As a volunteer there, Nisenbaum taught English and began to get to know her students. They told her how they came to the US as Nisenbaum, raised in Mexico City, related to their cross-border journeys. Eventually, she asked to paint their portraits. “There’s a mutuality in sitting for a portrait. When you’re painting, you’re looking at every part of their face, and they would ask me about my childhood in Mexico and how I came here,” Nisenbaum says. “It’s very intimate, like painting as documentary.” Her subjects sit in brightly patterned, semi-abstract settings. While inspired by Mexican muralist Diego Rivera, Nisenbaum pays attention not to the collectives of Rivera but individuals and their quirks: a pensive look, lop-sided glasses, uneven socks. Her subjects span Latino elders in a drawing class to Muslim Somali women tending a community garden, their faces usually turned to the viewer with a frank look. “There is a lot of excitement about Aliza Nisenbaum’s work in the art world because her paintings are masterful, and their intention is clear—to make those who are invisible, visible. She is so inspiring for her students,” said Carol Becker, dean of the School of the Arts. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University