Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How will global warming affect travel delays? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel As global warming causes temperatures to soar, it may also cause more and more planes to be grounded. Columbia researchers have completed a study that predicts warmer temperatures could lead to extensive delays in commercial and cargo flights. When temperatures rise, air becomes thinner, making it harder for wings to generate lift as planes attempt to leave the runway. Average global temperatures are expected to increase as much as 5 degrees by 2100, and daily highs at airports are projected to go up 7 to 14 degrees by 2080. During the hottest parts of the day, 10 to 30 percent of fully loaded planes may have to reduce fuel, cargo, or passengers, or else wait for cooler hours to fly. Such delays would have major logistical and economic effects. At the current rate of global warming, weight will have to be reduced by as much as 4 percent on the hottest days, equal to 12 or 13 fewer passengers on an average 160-seat plane. Aircrafts with lower temperature tolerances will fare even worse, and airports with shorter runways, in hotter parts of the world or at higher elevations, where the air is already thinner–will suffer more. Besides reducing carbon emissions to reduce global warming, some effects could be mitigated with new plane designs and expanded runways. But modifications would come at a cost, as aircrafts are already highly engineered for efficiency; and expanded runways in densely packed cities such as New York are not an option. “The sooner climate can be incorporated into mid- and long-range plans, the more effective adaptation efforts can be,” said Ethan Coffel, a researcher at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and lead author of the study. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Can we design more efficient solar cells? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University