Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Ways to Give Giving Societies Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Ways to Give Giving Societies Loyal Blue Society Columbia depends on the steadfast generosity of its most loyal donors at all giving levels. To recognize and honor their impact, we have created the Loyal Blue Society—open to all Columbia alumni, parents, and friends who support the University for two or more consecutive fiscal years (July 1 to June 30), or who invest in Columbia through automated recurring gifts. To learn more, visit the Loyal Blue Society page or email loyalblue@columbia.edu. The 1754 Society The 1754 Society honors alumni and friends of Columbia who have made future plans for the University through trust, estate, or other future gifts. Named for the year in which King's College was established, the Society recognizes the vital role benefactors have played over the centuries in Columbia's emergence as a preeminent educational institution and the role they play today in ensuring its continued preeminence. To learn more, visit the 1754 Society page. Founders Society Members of Columbia’s Founders Society are like-minded business founders, equity holders, and investors who have made a non-binding pledge to contribute a percentage of their venture’s future proceeds to the University. Alumni and friends who make this pledge gain membership to the Founders Society. Members have full control over the timing, amount, and designation of their gift, which can support any school or area at Columbia. Members also have access to the University’s entrepreneurial ecosystem, where they can connect with fellow Founders who understand the importance of tying commercial advancement to philanthropic achievement. To learn more, visit the Founders Society page. Benefactors The Benefactors of Columbia University honors individual donors whose active involvement and generous lifetime philanthropic commitment enable the University to pursue its highest aims. Established by the Trustees in 1990, the Benefactors program recognizes Columbia's leading patrons dating back to the founding of the University. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University