About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give College of Pharmacy Since 1893, the College of Pharmacy has been the standard of excellence in transforming pharmacy education, graduate education in the pharmaceutical and translational sciences, and research for the state of Texas and the nation. By providing creative opportunities for students to be involved in discovery, we will positively change patient care and break down barriers to health care delivery. Give Now Campaign Priorities Educating Future Pharmacists Key to recruiting and retaining competitive Pharm.D. students is providing substantial scholarships which allow each student the ability to immerse themselves in education, research and creative systems of health care delivery. To recruit and retain these students, we hope to expand and enlarge our scholarships. Key Investment Areas Pharm.D. scholarships Program endowments Travel endowments Attracting and Supporting Outstanding Faculty Faculty are the cornerstone of our success and we must strive to provide meaningful endowments that support their teaching and research. These endowments allow us to be competitive as we recruit and maintain leaders in innovation, drug discovery and delivery, and scientific breakthroughs. This requires endowed chairs and professorships for our outstanding faculty members in all disciplines. Key Investment Areas Faculty chairs Professorships and faculty fellowships Training the Next Generation of Scientists and Professors Graduate students are key to any successful research university and its faculty research. We seek funding to increase scholarship support for graduate students so that UT Pharmacy can recruit top talent across a wide range of academic programs to inspire, create and lead a bold new generation of research endeavors. Key Investment Areas Graduate fellowship endowments Program endowments Transforming Education for Tomorrow’s Front-Line Practitioners The College of Pharmacy must offer modern and innovative spaces in which our students and faculty can learn and innovate. Adaptable, long-lasting facilities will meet the ever-changing needs of delivering patient-centered education and allow us to pivot on a moment’s notice to adapt teaching and learning in response to unforeseen circumstances like the COVID-19 pandemic. Explore Ways to Give Learn more about giving to Texas Pharmacy giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback