Home Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University Forever Orange is more than a campaign to raise $1.5 billion in philanthropy for Syracuse University. It is our ability to impact people—to change the trajectory of our students’ lives and careers and to advance faculty research and innovation that benefit the whole world. See our progress below, and join us! Make your gift today! Make an Impact See the Impact Faculty Excellence Program The hallmark of a great research university is its faculty. At Syracuse, our world-class scholars expand their students’ intellect, broaden their perspectives, and shape future generations of leaders and innovators. Now, through the Faculty Excellence Program, you can partner with Syracuse University on our highest academic priorities—and amplify the impact of your giving! Faculty Excellence Program Campaign News $5 Million Gift to John A. Lally Athletics Complex Honors the Winning and Giving Spirit of Floyd Little More News Forever Orange Faculty Excellence Program allows donors to support the University's greatest academic priorities Forever Orange Faculty Excellence Program allows donors to support the University's greatest academic priorities Forever Orange Faculty Excellence Program allows donors to support the University's greatest academic priorities Ensuring Whitman Students Stand Ready to IMPRESS in the Business World More Stories Creating A World of Opportunity For over 150 years, Syracuse University has been a destination for those with great aspirations and a hunger for knowledge. Those who search for identity and community, and those driven to lead and to serve. Your generosity can make a world of difference for promising students. For students with financial need, your gift makes a Syracuse University education possible. When you invest in them, you invest in all our collective futures. Because they can change our world. Establish a Scholarship Donate to a Scholarship Fund Support the Campaign Give Today Ways to Give Attend an Event Contact Giving Staff Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top