Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Donor communities Parents and family giving Why give to Cornell Cornell needs your support to ensure current and recently admitted students can have the best possible student experience. Your gift plays an essential role in making this happen. Supporting students Offering financial resources to students helps ensure that equity and inclusion remain at the heart of who we are as a university. Your gift of any size, to an annual fund or to another area you are passionate about, makes a profound difference. Together, we can ensure that each Cornellian has the resources they need and the Cornell experience they deserve. How you can help The most immediate way for you to help is to make a gift to any of the Cornell annual funds. Annual fund gifts are flexible, and allow Cornell to direct support where it is most needed. Annual fund gifts touch every part of the student experience. You can also help students by directing your giving to any area of the university that is important to you. Every gift to the university allows Cornell to continue to teach, conduct world-class research, and make the world a better place. Giving back to an area you love means you make a difference for a student just like you. Seasonal Zoom backgrounds 🌸 Spring is here on campus! Give your virtual meetings a little Cornell color and download these Zoom backgrounds. Download Photo: Jason Koski (UREL) Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022