Skip to Content (Press Enter) California State University, Fullerton This functionality is depended on Javascript being enabled. Please use your operating system's accessibility options. Giving to CSUF Titan Fund Colleges Programs Scholarships Special Opportunities Search for a Fund Tribute Gifts Matching Gifts Thank you for your support Would you like to... Make a Gift Now Give to Tuffy Basic Needs Make a Planned Gift Other Ways to Give Recognizing Our Donors If CSUF students and faculty are the heart of our University, then donors are the backbone. The ways to make a difference are as diverse as our donors: scholarships; endowed chairs and professorships; special programs and centers; the building and renovation of facilities. We salute the many donors since our founding who have helped CSUF become the exceptional institution it is today, and invite you to join their distinguished ranks. 2020 Honor Roll Ontiveros Legacy Society Lifting Up Former Foster Youth "This amazing Guardian Scholars program has changed, and quite possibly, saved my life,” says Jorge Cardenas. Car Collection Fuels Scientific Research The groundbreaking detection of gravitational waves prompted Nicholas and Lee Begovich, to make one of the largest philanthropic investments in the history of Cal State Fullerton — a collection of 14 classic sports cars valued at $10 million. Lifeline for Families in Need CSUF’s Center for Healthy Neighborhoods serves families living on an annual income of less than $25,000. The donor-supported center provides mental health services, career planning and development, leadership training, health and fitness classes, parenting workshops, academic and art programs for youth. Great Returns on a Titan Investment With visionary support Jeffrey Van Harte ’80 launched Titan Capital Management which provides students with hands-on investing experience. This site is maintained by University Advancement. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF