Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Fund for Syracuse Fund for Syracuse What is The Fund for Syracuse? Annual dollars provided through The Fund for Syracuse are flexible and immediately available, enabling the chancellor, deans, and other division heads to funnel those dollars wherever they are most urgently needed. Tuition and fees account for only a portion of Syracuse University’s annual budget. Annual contributions to The Fund for Syracuse are crucial, creating an essential bridge between tuition revenues and the actual cost of a Syracuse University education. The Fund for Syracuse is actually a collection of many current-use funds. The Fund for Syracuse includes: The Annual Fund General Scholarship Fund Director/Dean’s Funds for each school, college, and unit A variety of specialty funds for current use purposes Gifts to the “Fund for Syracuse” are counted within our fiscal calendar of July 1 – June 30. Give Now Giving to The Fund for Syracuse Your annual gift to The Fund for Syracuse can be used to support Syracuse University’s highest priorities, including day-to-day operating costs, classroom and laboratory instruction, and student programs. It can go to our general scholarship fund to assist students who demonstrate financial need. Or it can be designated to support a part of Syracuse University that has special meaning to you, whether it’s a particular school or college, the Syracuse University Libraries, Hendricks Chapel, or Syracuse University Athletics. No matter how you choose to give, your annual gift will be put to good use where and when it is needed most. Accordion Section How are contributions to the Fund for Syracuse used? The Fund for Syracuse affords individuals a great deal of flexibility, as donors may choose from a wide range of annual giving designations, which align with their personal interests and connections with the University. This includes options for making gifts to each college, school, and unit on campus. For those individuals that want the University to decide how best to put their gifts to use, unrestricted contributions may be made to Annual Fund. All of these gifts have something in common: They are spent each year (which is different than an endowment gift). They represent a flexible and essential source of funds and an investment in the leaders of the university, schools, colleges, and units to make strategic investments. They are essential to the operation of the University. The majority of the budget provided to the University's thirteen colleges and schools are in the form of fixed costs. Annual giving contributions provide an invaluable source of flexible funding that reflects your priorities as a donor, as well as the greatest needs and highest priorities of the University. Why does your annual gift matter? Year after year, gifts to the Fund for Syracuse make possible scholarships, and once-in-a-lifetime opportunities for students. Annual gifts help Syracuse University provide state-of-the-art laboratories and equipment, and support learning experiences, including study abroad, immersion trips, and student competitions. Whatever the size of your gift, your support strengthens Syracuse. It is also a vote of confidence. Universities that have a broad base of alumni support do better in college rankings. What defines success for the Annual Giving Program? Success within The Fund for Syracuse is defined by the following: Total dollars raised each year. Total donors who make gifts to The Fund for Syracuse. Percent of undergraduate alumni who give to Syracuse University, this is an important element of the University’s US News & World Report ranking. In This Section Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Facilities Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top