Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? Global Solutions Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Knight First Amendment Institute, opened at Columbia in early 2017, hit the ground running to protect First Amendment rights. In March 2017, the Institute filed a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to document searches of people's electronic devices at the border without a warrant. From about 5,000 in 2015 to 25,000 in 2016, US border officials' searches of electronic devices have increased dramatically. In February 2017 alone, officials searched 5,000 devices. The Institute is particularly wary of the department’s policies to search cellphones and laptops of journalists, lawyers, and human rights advocates. Knight requests information on the number of travelers whose devices have been searched, the policies tied to searching journalists, and internal audits of such practices by government civil rights agencies. Knight also seeks the release of information from a DHS database tracking every border search of electronic devices. The Knight First Amendment Institute is a non-partisan, not-for-profit organization established by Columbia University and the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation to defend the freedoms of speech and the press in the digital age through strategic litigation, research, and public education. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can Columbia World Projects further mobilize Columbia’s strengths to solve problems? Can door-to-door testing turn the tide of the AIDS epidemic? Will long-form reporting shape our understanding of global issues? How can the Committee on Global Thought originate new ways of research and teaching about the 21st century world? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University