Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Interviewing the reef—a new kind of environmental journalism? Climate Response Journalism Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia Journalism School is putting cameras in the hands of scuba divers to get up close and personal with coral reefs. The program, called Re(ef)source, gives specially designed cameras to divers in Florida for photographing coral to gauge reef health. The Brown Institute for Media Innovation, a collaboration between Columbia and Stanford Universities, first developed Re(ef)source. Coral reefs are the canary in the coal mine for ecosystem health in oceans and along coasts. A quarter of ocean life depends on healthy reefs for food and shelter, and entire economies and livelihoods rest on ocean tourism and fishing industries. In the Florida Keys alone, between $2 and $3 billion dollars is spent every diving season. These reefs are in perpetual danger of bleaching and other damage from humans, as well as rising ocean temperatures. The program combines new state-of-the-art fluorescent and multispectral images, crowd-sourced data and analysis to empower citizen journalism in environmental reporting. Journalists can use Re(ef)source data for a new type of environmental interview. Instead of relying on experts alone, the environment becomes a source itself. Related Podcast: Call the Bleach Patrol Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University