Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Units and Programs You can choose to give to any college or unit at NC State, supporting more than 35,000 students, more than 2,000 faculty and almost 7,000 staff across our university. Arts NC State All NC State students — regardless of college or major — are welcome to participate in Arts NC State programs and productions. Caldwell Fellows The Caldwell Fellows program invests in students selected during their first year at NC State who share a passion to learn, grow and serve others. Division of Academic and Student Affairs The Division of Academic and Student Affairs prepares NC State students to succeed academically, professionally and personally. Institute for Emerging Issues Today’s complex challenges require citizens who can work together by identifying shared interests and collaborating to achieve common goals. IEI engages people from all regions, sectors and points of view because when people work together with a shared will and common vision, progress is smarter, more comprehensive and enduring. Kenan Fellows By equipping K-12 teachers with the resources and tools to connect their students with authentic STEM learning experiences, the Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership aims to encourage more students to pursue higher education and careers in STEM fields, becoming the next generation of great inventors, leaders and thinkers. NC State Entrepreneurship Any student with great ideas and the drive to succeed can become an entrepreneur at NC State. In 2019 more than 3,700 undergraduate students participated in entrepreneurship course offerings. Our work to unite and advance entrepreneurship efforts across campus led Princeton Review and Entrepreneur magazine to rank us among the country's top 10 universities for entrepreneurship. NC State University Libraries NC State University Libraries is the gateway to knowledge for the NC State community and its partners. Its collections reflect the historic strengths of the university — and its vision for the future. Park Scholarships The Park Scholarship is a four-year scholarship awarded on the basis of outstanding accomplishments and potential in scholarship, leadership, service and character. Shelton Leadership Center The Shelton Leadership Center works to inspire, educate and develop values-based leaders committed to personal integrity, professional ethics and selfless service. University Honors Program The University Honors Program gathers the top undergraduates across every college at NC State and catalyzes them to participate in the research mission of the university. University Scholars Program The University Scholars Program challenges its students to develop as thinkers, citizens and leaders, and it prepares them to achieve their personal and professional goals. Wolfpack Club The Wolfpack Club provides private financial support for athletics scholarships and facilities at NC State, as well as a vibrant community for all friends of Wolfpack athletics. Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.