Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Unpacking the "Aha!" moment to make better split-second decisions EEG (electroencephalogram) neurofeedback The Future of Neuroscience Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel How do baseball players decide how to swing at a 95 mph fastball? What do split-second decisions look like in the brain? Columbia engineering professor Paul Sajda and his lab, Laboratory for Intelligent Imaging and Neural Computing, are using electroencephalogram (EEG) to detect the brain's electrical activity during the "Aha!" moment, or the instant of recognition involved in rapid decision-making. The Lab is applying these findings to better understand and improve situations where instantaneous decision-making is critical like when pilots need to steady a bumpy plane. When pilots have to pay attention to a critical boundary such as in landing an aircraft, they tend to over-track these boundaries, leading to pilot-induced oscillations (PIO), or bumpier and more dangerous flying. Observing brain activity, Sajda and his colleagues found that PIOs often happen when pilots focus only on boundaries (like the dimensions of an aircraft carrier or a runway) and start to over-correct flight speed and direction. One over-correction leads to another until the pilot begins losing control of the aircraft. The Lab's findings can predict as well as better prevent PIOs by helping pilots focus on the space within the aircraft's boundaries rather than on the boundaries themselves. Alumni of Sajda’s lab have launched businesses based on this research. Sajda’s former graduate student Jordan Muraskin founded deCervo, a company that tracks decision-making activity in the brain to help scouts identify promising baseball players. Players have less than half a second when hitting to detect the type of pitch and take a swing, making successful rapid decision-making essential to their performance. See this New York Times article about deCervo. The implications of Sajda’s work, however, extend beyond the runway and the ballpark. Understanding basic neural structures that process visual information, Sajda has built brain-computer interfaces to search through large amounts of images more efficiently. This holds promise for better reviewing surveillance tapes using facial recognition and for screening visual medical information like X-rays and MRIs. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Will a chip reverse blindness? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University