Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Annual Giving at NC State Every year, your support creates new opportunities for the Wolfpack community to think and do the extraordinary. Making a Difference Each Year What if you could help one more student achieve their dream, or one more researcher discover a solution? What if you could create one more incredible educational experience? With your annual gift, you join the most successful campaign in NC State history and your generosity forever changes lives — one at a time. Every year, annual giving donors remove barriers and open doors by investing in life-changing scholarships, exceptional enhancements to our learning environment and an unparalleled team of faculty and researchers. Your gift helps students fully reach their potential as the leaders of tomorrow, solving grand challenges for our state and world. It takes a Wolfpack to do the extraordinary. Give Now Your Impact Some call it giving back. We call it being part of our Pack. Each year, we put your gifts into action -- with extraordinary results. See what our 31,000+ donors have helped NC State achieve Powering Our Pack Private support supplements tuition and state appropriations, bridging the gap and enhancing every aspect of campus. Annual gifts go to work immediately. Your gift supports people and programs making a real difference across our state. image/svg+xml You choose what your gift supports. Passion drives philanthropy. Annual gifts target specific areas of interest, such as the Student Emergency Fund, the Libraries, the arts, the NC State Veterinary Hospital, Extension and scholarships. You can also designate your gift to the University’s Greatest Needs Fund to support our most urgent priorities. Gifts of every size add up. In the 2019-20 academic year, gifts of under $1,000 totaled $3,499,296. Every gift makes a difference. Give Now Special Programs Learn more about connecting with other members of the Pack through our affiliation-based giving programs and leadership giving society. Chancellor's Circle NC State is proud and honored to annually recognize our alumni, parents, faculty, staff and friends who, through their leadership gifts of $1,000 or more annually, provide tremendous impact. The Chancellor’s Circle is a celebration of your generosity. Parent Partners Program The Parent Partners Program comprises a dedicated group of parents who believe in the power of philanthropy to enhance their child’s NC State experience. Senior Campaign A tradition since 1912, the Senior Campaign invites members of our graduating class to support an area of NC State’s campus most meaningful for them. Stay Connected Your annual gift keeps you connected to NC State. Learn more about opportunities to engage with our university and stay up-to-date on the latest news. Update your information Sign up for our weekly newsletter Find alumni events near you Volunteer with your alumni network Contact Us Our team is committed to connecting members of the Pack with opportunities that align with their passions. Questions about annual giving at NC State? Contact us at annual_giving@ncsu.edu. Meet the Annual Giving team Meet our call center team Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.