Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Forever Orange/An Unsurpassed Student Experience An Unsurpassed Student Experience: Where Exploration Meets Action From experiencing diverse perspectives on campus and across the globe, to connecting individuals and interests beyond the classroom, Syracuse University isn’t just a step before the “real world”—it’s where students start to shape it. Financial Aid Syracuse University welcomes anyone with potential to make an impact. We believe no one should be held back by financial constraints from pursuing a high-quality education. That’s why we’re committed to a future that supports the scholarship, leadership and entrepreneurship of every student who is eager for new experiences and hungry for new knowledge. Our commitment includes financial assistance for students who are interested in immersive off-campus learning experiences—across the country, around the world or right at home—because all students should have equal access to transformative learning opportunities. Endowing a named scholarship or graduate fellowship leaves a legacy that inspires the success of current and future generations of students. Not only do scholarships and fellowships help attract and retain a high-achieving, diverse student body—they open doors to a broader, richer student experience. Supporting independent research projects, study abroad, immersion programs and professional development internships means that every deserving student has the opportunity to learn hands-on and gain the real-world experience to launch a successful career. Holistic Student Success Our students dig deep and aim high to challenge, elevate and exceed expectations. And they’re at their best when they’re healthy—not just academically, but emotionally, socially and physically. We’re developing new programs and transforming existing resources addressing all facets of health. Nowhere is a holistic, integrated approach to student wellness more evident than at the Barnes Center at The Arch. Students and members of the Syracuse University community can find spaces, services, equipment and programs to help guide and empower them toward balanced, healthy lifestyles. From exercise classes to fitness equipment, health care services to counseling—it’s all in one central location. Together, we can support holistic student health and wellness. From named spaces and programs, to resources and community-building, supporting whole-student success is an investment that yields dividends in academic performance, retention and graduation rates. Students who learn resilience and life skills beyond the classroom, who build networks and communities around common interests, and who have healthy habits, opportunities for spiritual growth and social connections are more likely to thrive at Syracuse University and beyond. Transformative Learning Experiences At Syracuse University, we close the gap between education and action. With 13 schools and colleges, students have the opportunity to explore in almost any subject area—and across disciplines. Whether it’s an independent research project, studying abroad, service learning, field-based studies, an off-site internship or working in a cultural, policy or advocacy organization, these experiences go beyond preparing graduates for the real world—they allow students to have an immediate impact on it. Together, we can accelerate learning outside of the classroom. With your investment, we can expand these immersive opportunities to give access to more students, regardless of financial need. While financial aid covers the cost of attendance, expenses like temporary housing or transportation to an internship or immersion site can be obstacles to participation. Your support of experiential learning and study abroad opens doors to more students to experience more aspects of professional life and gain a broader perspective on the world. Athletics Student-athletes aren’t just competitors. They’re leaders, scholars and advocates. We cultivate a culture of excellence for our student-athletes, in the classroom, in competition and in their communities. And when they proudly represent our University, they fuel an undeniable spirit that connects our fans and supporters forever. Creating a New Stadium Experience On game days or at Commencement, during career fairs or at concerts, our community’s scale, scope and spirit is on full display when a sea of Orange takes over the Dome. As we transform the existing structure to create a new stadium experience, students, faculty, staff, fans and community members can anticipate a one-of-a-kind environment. From the enhanced natural lighting in the facility to the ease at which the scoreboard can be viewed, from the new lighting and sound systems to the added restrooms and concessions, the stadium will be unlike anything experienced anywhere. Support for facilities transformation, student-athlete scholarships, academic programs and leadership development helps our student-athletes represent Orange Nation at the highest levels of performance. Together, we can ensure our student-athletes are successful in their studies, leadership and career goals. Working Professionals and Lifelong Learners The growing number of lifelong learners and need for flexible learning formats means that the future of education demands innovative, adaptable and personalized approaches. Whether adult learners, active military, distance learners, part-time, gap year, working professionals or career changers, new technologies and ways of learning will advance the quality academic experience that Syracuse University offers to students. We’re creating more responsive and inclusive ways for people to advance and accelerate their education and careers—no matter their pace or place. Together, we can transform lives with opportunities for lifelong learning. Funding for innovation in course delivery, teaching and learning enables us to continue meeting and anticipating the future needs of students. Your support of scholarships for students at all stages of life ensures that they can achieve an undergraduate or advanced degree in ways that go beyond what they may have imagined. In This Section Forever Orange Academic Excellence Faculty Excellence Program An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities “It meant a lot to be recognized as someone deserving of this award, but the best part of it was that recipients get to do an internship the summer after freshman year.” Avery Callahan Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top