Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? Data and Society Precision Medicine Data Science Institute Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel There are more bacteria in the human body than stars in our galaxy, Columbia biomedical engineer Tal Danino reminds us. This universe of bacteria inside us is integral to our health and may be key to new cancer treatments. Columbia scientists in synthetic biology, an emerging field that combines biology and engineering, are learning to program bacteria as we program computers—but to destroy cancer cells. Danino, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Columbia Engineering, and his team are researching these new cancer therapies. In a study with mice, Danino and scientists engineered bacteria to kill colon cancer cells. Combined with an anticancer drug, these Trojan-horse-like bacteria shrank liver tumors in mice far more dramatically than either the bacteria or drug could alone. Scientists can now write DNA into algorithms inside of bacteria, programming them to release these cancer-fighting toxins. Recently, Danino and colleagues used data science to also study how bacteria hinder the chemotherapy drug Gemcitabine, commonly used to treat pancreatic cancer. In mice, pancreatic tumors resisted this drug when bacteria were introduced. To test if the bacteria inhibited the drug, the team injected antibiotics in mice that killed bacteria in more than 70 percent of the rodents. However, in mice without antibiotics, tumors rapidly spread, revealing that the bacteria helped stop the drug from working. Merging biology and data science, this study may lead to clinical trials in humans to develop potential, innovative cancer treatments. “Our ability to program bacteria…opens up new horizons in cancer research,” said Danino. “Ultimately, my hope is that this microscopic universe of bacteria can inspire new, creative approaches to treating cancer.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? What is the Columbia commitment to data and society? How can hundreds of female patients advance endometriosis research? Will new methods accelerate the discovery of cancer treatments? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University