Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? The Future of Neuroscience Arts and Ideas Engineering Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia University researchers have shown that repeated practice in musical improvising can change the brain. Paul Sajda, a biomedical engineer and member of the Data Science Institute, and Andrew Goldman, recently a fellow in the Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience program, asked 40 musicians to listen to a series of chord progressions. Sajda and Goldman interspersed two chord variations in the series: one in the same class (a similar chord with its notes inverted, for example) and one from outside that class (such as a major chord following a minor chord). The brains of the practiced improvisers showed distinct patterns of electrical activity when encountering the second, unsuitable type of chord variation. Skilled improvisers, it turned out, could react more quickly to unfamiliar musical situations. “Improvisational practice seems to reinforce how the brain represents different types of musical structures,” said Sajda. George Lewis, a professor of composition and musicology at Columbia who co-edited the Oxford Handbook of Critical Improvisation Studies, and who was not involved in the study, said, “This work shows that far from being ineffable or mysterious, the practice of improvisation can be studied scientifically, yielding new knowledge about the brain and how we all get along in the world.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University