Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home George E. Lewis Arts and Ideas Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Edwin H. Case Professor of American Music My commitment: Exploring how improvisation can transcend disciplines to illuminate the nature of being human I am a composer and musicologist whose scholarship and teaching explore improvisation as a ubiquitous practice of everyday life. For me, music and the arts are part of a larger network tracing the entire human condition of improvisation, whether it be creating a song, trying new ideas at work, or even crossing the street. As humanities scholars and creators of music, we realize that for any kind of creative act, whether in the arts or in society at large, you need to create diverse communities of people who are thinking hard about how what they are doing can make a difference in the world. Columbia’s Department of Music engages composers, musicologists, ethnomusicologists, and music theorists in productive dialogue, not only with other members of our Faculty of Arts and Sciences—philosophers, neuroscientists, historians, literary scholars, social scientists, and scholars of women, gender, race, and ethnicity—but also with a whole array of creative faculty artists in Columbia’s School of the Arts. Our common goal is to forge the future, and our students are a crucial part of that future; we try to help students recognize and follow their own paths. Here at Columbia, students and faculty alike exchange ideas with an international intellectual community, and bring what we have discovered back into the global public sphere. Keep up with Columbia Music: @Columbia_Music Ideas and Impact How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre A new chapter for the arts at Columbia How can art inspire hope during wartime? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University