Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can the Columbia Journalism Review help meet journalism's greatest challenges? Just Societies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel With the rise of fake news and media distrust, journalistic principles like accountability are challenged daily and rapidly. The Columbia Journalism Review (CJR), a media watchdog and advocate, is one of the most respected voices on press criticism. With fast-turn analysis and deep reporting, its leadership among journalists is more critical than ever. “CJR is the leading global voice on journalism news and commentary,” said Kyle Pope, editor-in-chief and publisher of CJR. “Right now, the challenge that journalism is facing is unlike anything I have ever seen, so we have a huge stress on our resources.” CJR is not just for journalists, but also for everyone who believes a healthy press is essential to a healthy democracy. “Our place at Columbia University—our connection to students and faculty—gives us a voice that other outlets don’t have,” said Pope. Support this Program Learn More Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University