Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Capturing images to improve CRISPR-based gene editing Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Using a Nobel prize winning technique called cryo-electron microscopy, Columbia researchers froze a new gene editing tool in action—and, for the first time, took pictures of it. These high-resolution images show how INTEGRATE, a new, CRISPR-based tool, actually works. And the pictures may help researchers build even more accurate gene editing tools, eventually improving biomedical treatments. “These new images, a wonderful collaboration with Israel Fernández’s lab, explain the biology with incredible molecular detail and will help us improve the system by guiding protein engineering efforts,” said Sam Sternberg, assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular biophysics at Columbia’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, who led the research with Fernandez, assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular biophysics. The new gene editing tool, INTEGRATE, promises greater precision than existing, widely used CRISPR technologies. INTEGRATE, developed by the Sternberg lab, can insert large DNA sequences, for instance, without relying on the cell’s machinery to repair strands. This means INTEGRATE may be more efficient at gene editing than the original, well-known CRISPR-Cas system. Thanks to clearer images of INTEGRATE at work, researchers plan to explore the new gene editing tool’s possibilities in treating diseases. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will looking beyond genes to proteins help us find new drug targets? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University