About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give About the Campaign This is our moment. With your support, The University of Texas at Austin can become the world’s highest-impact public research university, unleashing knowledge, opportunity and innovation from the heart of Texas. That’s why we’re undertaking the What Starts Here fundraising campaign — the most ambitious in our university’s and state’s history. Campaign Priorities The campaign is building on the support of the state of Texas, the talent and ability of those who work, learn and teach at UT, and the philanthropy of our generous alumni and friends. Together, we will ensure that UT continually lives up to its promise: What starts here changes the world. Frequently Asked Questions What is the What Starts Here campaign? The What Starts Here campaign is the most ambitious fundraising effort in the history of The University of Texas at Austin and the state of Texas. Investment from our alumni, friends and partners will allow the university to unlock student potential, recruit world-class faculty, transform health and care, and create a vibrant future for Texas and beyond — living up to our promise that what starts here changes the world. Why is UT in a campaign? Our world is in a period of transition and discovery — and it needs leadership from Longhorns. This is our moment, and the What Starts Here campaign is our opportunity to grow our impact in profound and lasting ways. A campaign unites all of UT’s colleges, schools and units around shared priorities with focused opportunities for philanthropic support. How do I participate in the campaign? Making a gift online is the fastest way to support the campaign. You can also explore other ways to give, from mailing a check to including UT in your estate plan, here. How will my gift be used? Your gift goes to the college, school, unit, program or other cause that you specify. You can choose to give to a general purpose — like the UT scholarships fund — or to a specific person or program that is close to your heart. Every gift makes a difference. How does my gift make a difference? UT is a university of the first class because of the generous support we receive from our donors. State funding supports basic university operations, but it’s your support that drives excellence. Every dollar of your gift goes to the purpose you specify and supports the students, faculty and researchers who change the world. Why does a state university need a fundraising campaign? UT’s revenue comes from three main sources: state support, tuition and philanthropy. Private support is the primary source of funding that recruits new talent, makes innovation possible and drives a vibrant future for Texas. In fact, donor support has long been a cornerstone of UT’s success — donors gave some of the Forty Acres’ first buildings, contributed the funds that built Texas Memorial Stadium, invested in faculty endowments in the 1980s and realized transformational new endeavors like Dell Medical School. College, School and Unit Campaigns giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback