Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Loyal Blue Society Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Loyal Blue Society Loyal Blue Society Year after year, the dedicated support of donors at all giving levels helps make Columbia one of the world’s greatest research universities, enabling our students, faculty, medical professionals, and researchers to ask and answer some of the world’s most pressing questions. Columbia depends on your steadfast generosity, and we want to recognize and honor your impact. That’s why we have created the Loyal Blue Society, a University-wide donor loyalty and consecutive giving recognition program. How to Join Membership in Loyal Blue is open to all Columbia alumni, parents, and friends who support the University in two or more consecutive fiscal years (July 1 to June 30), or who invest in Columbia through automated recurring gifts. As a Loyal Blue member, you will gain access to exclusive content and receive recognition in select University publications. To retain your membership, simply make your gift of any amount to the fund or funds of your choice by the end of each fiscal year (June 30). Become a Member We look forward to welcoming you into the Loyal Blue Society. If you have questions about your eligibility or membership, please email loyalblue@columbia.edu. Did you know? The Loyal Blue Society joins The 1754 Society, Benefactors, and Founders Society as the only four University-wide recognition groups at Columbia. Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University