Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home School Campaigns Twitter Facebook LinkedIn School Campaigns During The Columbia Commitment campaign, a number of schools have launched their own campaigns for ideas and impact. Check out highlights. A Force in the World As laws are tested, as our Constitution is pushed to its limit, as the fight for equality rages on, and as markets are shaped and new economics are born, Columbians need to be prepared to meet new challenges. A Force in the World, the campaign for Columbia Law, celebrates our proud history, while boldly and confidently embracing the future. Learn More What Can Be What Can Be is the School of International and Public Affairs’ $150-million campaign that will fund areas essential to our future. It will increase financial aid for our students, support the high-impact research of our academic community, ensure new hiring in critical fields, and create new programs. Learn More Columbia Engineering for Humanity Our vision—Columbia Engineering for Humanity—sets a bold path for a sustainable, healthy, secure, connected, and creative humanity. Our faculty and students are doing pioneering work across departments and disciplines, in partnership with sister schools, institutes, government, and industry. Learn More Core to Commencement From professorships to internships to 100 years of the Core Curriculum—learn how Columbia College is creating bold possibilities for students, faculty, and our future with the Core to Commencement campaign. Learn More Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University