Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Giving to Notre Dame Priorities Giving Societies Ways to Give Watch Stories Contact Give Now Home Contact Search Menu Giving Societies Notre Dame's Giving Societies uniquely recognize members of the Notre Dame family who generously advance the University's mission through annual gifts. Giving Societies Notre Dame's Giving Societies uniquely recognize members of the Notre Dame family who generously advance the University's mission through annual gifts. Notre Dame's seven giving societies distinctly focus on priorities that make the Notre Dame experience not only great but exceptional. These priorities include providing financial aid for undergraduate and graduate students in need, enhancing the Notre Dame student experience, and funding visionary opportunities and priorities. Giving Society members join Notre Dame in being a force for good in a world deeply in need. Our Giving Societies Sorin Society Members of the Sorin Society join in the vision of Notre Dame's founder, Father Sorin, by empowering students with the resources they need to become forces for good in the world. Rockne Athletics Fund Members of the Rockne Athletics Fund are Notre Dame fans, family, and alumni, who help provide the best academic and athletic opportunities for Notre Dame student-athletes. Order of St. Thomas More Members of the Order of St. Thomas More champion the education of compassionate and extraordinary Notre Dame lawyers who view the law as a powerful force for good in the world. O'Hara Society O’Hara Society members invest in the next generation of Notre Dame business leaders with annual gifts that directly impact Mendoza’s graduate business students. Badin Guild Members of the Badin Guild help ensure that Notre Dame will continue to be a force for good in the world for generations to come through planned gifts. Athletics Director’s Circle The Athletics Director’s Circle is one of two premier Rockne Athletics Fund membership levels where members help shape a distinct experience for Notre Dame student-athletes. President's Circle The President's Circle is an exclusive group of leaders within the Notre Dame family who play an instrumental role in affording the University the flexibility to address its most critical needs. Jesse Harper Council Members of the Jesse Harper Council work side-by-side with Notre Dame Athletics to provide Notre Dame student-athletes with the most distinctive experience in the country. Cavanaugh Council The Cavanaugh Council, Notre Dame's most exclusive giving society, advances Notre Dame’s distinct mission and connects members with University leadership. Football Ticket Lottery Information By joining a giving society, you'll qualify for the Notre Dame Football Ticket Lottery and become eligible to purchase tickets to watch the Irish play in Notre Dame Stadium before they go on sale to the general public. Football Ticket Lottery Information Give the Gift of Notre Dame Begin Here $ Amount to give Home Priorities Giving Societies Sorin Society Rockne Athletics Fund Order of St. Thomas More O'Hara Society Badin Guild Athletics Director’s Circle President's Circle Jesse Harper Council Cavanaugh Council Ways to Give Watch Stories Contact Give Now Sorin Society Rockne Athletics Fund Order of St. Thomas More O'Hara Society Badin Guild Athletics Director’s Circle President's Circle Jesse Harper Council Cavanaugh Council Giving to Notre Dame 1100 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-7164 Fax (574) 631-9665 develop@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Phone