Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Tool Developed at Columbia Tracks COVID-19 as New York’s Lockdown Eases COVID-19 Recovery Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A statistical programming language called Stan, created in 2012 by a team led by Columbia University’s Andrew Gelman, helps epidemiologists model how many lives are at risk of COVID-19 in New York—and when hospitals will be overrun with patients with the lockdown ending. Stan performs Bayesian inference, which is a statistical method for combining information from multiple sources. Developers from around the world continually tweak the open source program to be ever more accurate. Now, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s advisors on COVID-19 data are using the program. “Stan will help us approach the COVID crisis from a data-driven perspective and to reach a scientific consensus on the coronavirus,” said Samir Bhatt, a senior lecturer in geostatistics at Imperial College London whose team advises the Governor. “And that knowledge can than be used by Gov. Cuomo to make the most informed decisions.” Bhatt gives Gelman and the Stan team credit for building a program that helps researchers make inferences under uncertainty as the lockdown lifts. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact CovidWatcher App Tracks Coronavirus Path and Effects in NYC Columbia AIDS researchers pivot to treatments for COVID-19 and future pandemics What can COVID-19 teach us about climate change? Can a New UV Light Zap the Coronavirus? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University