Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Ways to Give/Naming Opportunities & Endowments Naming Opportunities & Endowments Naming Opportunities Whether it is the name on a building or classroom, a speaker series, or a scholarship, the many names throughout Syracuse University show how support from generous donors is woven into the very fabric of a Syracuse education. You can be a part of this distinguished tradition. Depending on your giving interests, there are a wide range of naming opportunities at Syracuse University. For example, you may choose to: Establish a scholarship in your name, or in honor of a loved one Support a professorship in an area of interest to you Name a new or renovated space on campus, especially for one of SU’s priority capital projects Support an academic program, or launch a speaker series Endowed Gifts An endowed gift is a gift that keeps giving for generations to come. When you establish an endowed fund with Syracuse University, or give to one of our existing endowed funds, the principal of your gift will be carefully invested to generate revenue for a purpose of your choice in perpetuity. Endowed funds can be established for scholarships, professorships, or to support a college or school within the University. Or you can contribute to an existing endowed fund at Syracuse. To learn more about naming opportunities or endowed funds, contact Karen Spear at 315.443.2410 or ksspear@syr.edu. In This Section Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top