What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now What Starts Here On A Course for Mars UT aerospace engineering student is breaking down barriers and making her dreams come true. What starts here changes the world — and that starts with generous donors. Read more about the students, faculty and programs changing the world with your support. Spotlight Changing the Cancer Equation UT partnership integrates emerging disciplines of computational oncology and machine learning to transform the future of cancer care. Engaging the Senses Karl and Nelda Buckman’s gift supports new collaboration space for immersive art in the College of Fine Arts. Kendra Scott Supports Future Women Business Leaders This new investment will help thousands of women pursue their business aspirations. I Video DJ Green and Professor Larry Speck An Air Force veteran and first-generation college student receives a life-changing opportunity when he’s admitted to The University of Texas at Austin. Watch Now World’s Best Faculty Giving Back to the Future A transformative gift from UT alumnus J. Mike Walker gives students and faculty in UT’s Cockrell School of Engineering an extraordinary opportunity to become leaders and change the world. A Unique Approach to Brain Health UT is advancing knowledge on Alzheimer’s disease, stroke and other neurodegenerative conditions with the financial support of Jim and Miriam Mulva. Energizing Innovation Jeff and Mindy Hildebrand’s investment in petroleum and geosystems engineering has made a world-changing impact on students, faculty and research at UT. The Patton Challenge With a world-changing gift of $20 million and an inspired plan to raise even more money, Bobby and Sherri Patton have had an impact on lives, both on the Forty Acres and far beyond. Read More Leaders of Tomorrow World’s Best Faculty Health Transformation Vibrant Future Texas Leader Magazine Chosen Family The Forty Acres inspire lasting friendships and great generosity. The Hartmans and Keys, all UT alumni, have created endowed scholarships for future Longhorns. Latest Stories Space to Explore Within UT’s Cockrell School of Engineering, students can venture into a variety of exciting projects. A Class Act College of Education graduate Laura Orozco Domínguez is ready to change lives in the classroom. Tapping Texas Talent Generous donors are helping Longhorns become the leaders and world-changers of tomorrow. Eye on the Future The Mitchel and Shannon Wong Eye Institute, part of UT Health Austin and Dell Medical School, provides Texans with unparalleled ophthalmological care. Breaking New Ground in Energy A gift from Gary L. Thomas supports UT Austin’s reputation as a global leader in energy education. Gift Announcements Investment Will Advance Opportunities for Black Male Students at UT and Increase Student Support Gift Announcements Tito’s Invests in Student-Athletes Gift Announcements, Latest Impact Stories Street Medicine Initiatives Find New Champion Gift Announcements, Health & Care Grant to Hogg Foundation Supports Youth of Color and Mental Health Gift Announcements Hogg Foundation receives $1.1 million from Chan Zuckerberg Initiative to advance mental health and well-being for youth of color and their families Changing the World for People Who Stutter Gift Announcements Arthur M. Blank Center for Stuttering Education and Research will expand vision and work of Dr. Courtney Byrd. First Distinguished Professorship Established at School of Nursing Gift Announcements, Latest Stories Investment will help recruit top research faculty and enhance nursing education. Your gifts support scholarships, faculty recruitment and research transform lives. Make a gift today to change the world. Give Now Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback