Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? The Future of Neuroscience Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia postdoctoral researcher Erik Hoel is using a new type of math to explain the origins of consciousness and agency. His theory, causal emergence, reveals the cause-effect relationship of the brain with behavior. The field of neuroscience has long sought to discover how complex behaviors emerge, mapping the brain to its smallest and most detailed level. Hoel suggests that instead of looking at the individual parts of the brain, we should instead be focusing on macroscopic states, which may even be psychological states such as desires or beliefs. In his search for causality, he has identified a macro level of scale where the information gathered will have the best predictive value. Hoel says, “If you just give me your atomic state, it may be totally impossible to guess where your future [atomic] state will be in 12 hours. Now give a psychological description, or a physiological one. Where are you going to be in 12 hours? You’re going to be asleep—easy.” To locate the level of focus most relevant to predicting future states, Hoel has been using a new type of math derived from information theory, the study of the transmission of information. Just as error-correcting codes increase the amount of information that can be sent over information channels, macro scales can have increased causal power. To identify the scale that is most able to predict future activity, Hoel is conducting brain imaging experiments in the lab of Columbia neuroscientist Rafael Yuste. As he investigates, Hoel asks, “Where does the causal structure of the brain pop out?” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University