Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? Photo Credit: AFP PHOTO / Kevin Krajick/Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Even Earth has its limits. Too much carbon dioxide in the oceans makes the water more acidic. Too much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere warms the planet. With emissions from our carbon-based economies still too high, researchers at Columbia’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory are turning CO2 gas to rock as a way to keep CO2 that power plants emit from ever entering the atmosphere. CO2 gas mineralizes when it reacts with basalt, or volcanic rock, though this process typically happens over hundreds of thousands of years. Columbia’s research team, the Carbfix Project, sped up this process. They captured CO2 gas from an Iceland power plant, pumped it underground into basalt rock, and, in two years, found that 95 percent of injected CO2 gas became a white, chalky substance. The gas-to-mineral conversion rate stunned them. Researchers are now scaling up the experiment by using rock in the Earth’s mantle and by exploring the possibility of storing CO2-turned-rock beneath oceans off US coasts. “Iceland was a key demonstration,” said Lamont geophysicist David Goldberg. “The holy grail is off-shore.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Can we design more efficient solar cells? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? How can architecture respond to climate change? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University