Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Research by Columbia psychologist Daphna Shohamy, a principal investigator at the Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, reveals that teens learn in a different way than adults do. Shohamy and her colleagues demonstrated that teens are more successful at rewards-based learning than adults and show a greater ability to make connections between concepts and objects that are unrelated. These findings hold potential for adapting teaching methods and developing curricula tailored to the maturing teen brain. Teens and adults in the study participated in a series of learning tasks in which correct answers were rewarded. Teens responded more strongly to the rewards, showing a greater affinity for what is called reinforcement learning. The teens were also better able to remember random, irrelevant pictures of objects that appeared during the learning tasks. Simultaneous brain imaging showed that while completing the learning tasks, there was an uptick in activity in the teens’ hippocampus, a region of the brain associated with memory. There was no corresponding activity in this region of the adults’ brains. “What we can take from these results isn’t that teens necessarily have better memory, in general, but rather the way in which they remember is different,” said Shohamy. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University