Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can B-vitamins ward off the effects of air pollution? Precision Medicine Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia researchers may have discovered a way to combat the impact of air pollution on health. It's based on a study of the effects of air pollution on the epigenome, the chemical compounds on or attached to DNA. The epigenome plays a crucial role in regulating gene activity—for example, determining whether genes are turned off or on. By affecting the epigenome, environmental factors can cause changes in the way genes are expressed. In just one instance, studies have shown that air pollution modifies the epigenome in ways that contribute to childhood asthma. Andrea Baccarelli of Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health and his colleagues conducted the first study designed to identify potential ways to prevent air pollution from altering the epigenome. They administered daily B-vitamin supplements to study participants and exposed them to ambient particles from a busy street in downtown Toronto over a period of four weeks. The study showed that supplementing with B-vitamins can reduce the impact of air pollutants on epigenetic markers that affect inflammation and the nerves of the heart. “Because of the central role of epigenetic modifications in mediating environmental effects,” said Baccarelli, “our findings could very possibly be extended to other toxicants and environmental diseases.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? Can hair loss be reversed? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University