Close Menu Why Give Gifts in Action RENATA D., FOX '21 MELONY B., ENG '20 TINA S., FOX '20 ABU E., CPH '21 Why Giving Matters Your Story Giving Opportunities Athletics Faculty Research Scholarships Schools and Colleges Temple Health Ways to Give Annual Giving Corporation & Foundation Relations CFR Fundraising Resources CFR Support Request Form Current Funding Opportunities Employee Giving Legacy Giving More Ways to Give OwlCrowd Previous Campaigns Student Support Donor Recognition Giving Societies The Carnell Society Conwell Society Conwell Society Events Conwell Society Zoom Backgrounds Year in Review Impact Newsletter About Us Alumni Website Contact Us Giving FAQs Login Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Temple Utilities Giving Why Give Gifts in Action Why Giving Matters Your Story Giving Opportunities Athletics Faculty Research Scholarships Schools and Colleges Temple Health Ways to Give Annual Giving Corporation & Foundation Relations Employee Giving Legacy Giving More Ways to Give OwlCrowd Student Support Donor Recognition Giving Societies Year in Review Impact Newsletter About Us Alumni Website Contact Us Giving FAQs Menu Make a Gift Every gift to Temple is an investment in the university – in our students, our faculty, and our research. $Enter a Gift Amount Next Learn More Learn More This issue of IMPACT focuses on the collective impact of donors and the world of difference philanthropy can make. See the Impact See the Impact The Temple community truly demonstrated what it means to be an Owl by making Temple Toast what it is - a day to pay it forward, by giving back. Alumni Business Directory Owls always support each other. Shop #TempleMade businesses or list your own in the Alumni Business Directory today. Broad Street Finish Line Help students bridge the gap and overcome obstacles on their path to graduation. Make your mark today! Giving Societies Members of our various Giving Societies help drive Temple's bold future. Learn more about TU's Giving Societies. Institutional Advancement Temple University Conwell Hall, 7th Floor 1801 North Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 215-926-2500 giving@temple.edu Contact Us Giving FAQs About Institutional Advancement Every gift to Temple University is an investment—in the university, in the work that it does, in the work it aspires toward, and in the ability of its students, faculty, staff, alumni, friends, and neighbors to transform the world around them. And every gift to Temple helps chart a course for the future. Your gift is the key. Google Plus Facebook Twitter LinkedIn.com YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 Temple University. All rights reserved. Show Modal ×