Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will seafloor-based instruments help lessen the toll of natural disasters? Global Solutions The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Timely warnings of earthquakes and subsequent tsunamis are vital to mitigating deaths and structural damage. Natural disasters have killed hundreds of thousands of people worldwide and caused hundreds of billions of dollars in property damage. A pilot program led by the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory aims to make these warnings earlier and more accurate. Advanced disaster warnings can make a drastic difference in saving lives and organizing relief. The new $1 million Paros Fund for Geophysical Instrumentation will enable Lamont to build and deploy 10 to 15 seafloor instruments in earthquake-prone areas—typically around the Pacific “Ring of Fire,” in Japan, Chile, New Zealand, or the Pacific Northwest. These sensors, deployed on the seafloor in subduction zones, or regions where one plate of the Earth’s crust slides under another, can accurately measure how the seafloor moves during seismic events. This could lead to more precise predictions of how large a tsunami might be following an earthquake and provide timely tsunami warnings to nearby communities. The new instrument packages will advance existing Lamont-Doherty ocean-bottom seismometers as engineers develop new electronics and software. The instruments, possibly deployed off the coasts of Chile, Alaska, or the Pacific Northwest’s Cascadia zone, will be designed to continuously record seismic and pressure signals for years on the seafloor before their retrieval. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University