Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Christine McCarthy Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Lamont Assistant Research Professor My commitment: Understanding how glacier movement contributes to sea-level rise I am an “ice squeezer.” I develop lab experiments that mimic how massive glaciers flow over bedrock. There is a great deal already known about how glaciers viscously flow in the interior, but not much is known about how they frictionally slide over bedrock. I try to recreate this process on a much smaller scale in the lab to discern the physics and controls of the process in order to aid in predictions of how quickly ice will travel from zones of accumulation to the sea under changing conditions. Numerous high school and undergraduate interns have come through my lab to test their theories about how various contaminants or impurities can affect the viscous and frictional properties of ice. It’s like a puzzle: my work is one small piece that fits together with the other pieces to create a much clearer picture of the whole glacial system. I am drawn to exploring how the pieces of the ocean, bedrock, and glacier fit together for the greater whole. See McCarthy talk more about her job as an ice squeezer. Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we safely reduce toxic byproducts of steel and iron production? Can we design more efficient solar cells? How can accurate rainfall data help farmers insure their land? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? How can climate scientists help the world better prepare for epidemics? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University