Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we incentivize climate-conscious behavior? Climate Response Business The Earth Institute International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel While many people may be on the fence about combatting climate change, one Columbia professor suggests appealing to people's wallets not hearts may motivate environmentally conscious action. “People respond to dollar figures. Even people who don’t have any emotional link to the environment can be persuaded if you tell them that investing in environmental conservation actually gives a very good rate of return,” said Geoffrey Heal, the Donald C. Waite III Professor of Social Enterprise and professor of economics and finance at Columbia Business School. Heal says that for every dollar spent on climate change prevention, probably five to six dollars are saved in the long term. Renewable energy is now competitive with fossil fuels, and it's cheaper to produce power from solar energy than natural gas. Investing in renewable energy now will help offset the costs of climate change later. Rising sea levels caused by climate change risk much of the world’s infrastructure, including airports, highways, train lines, and homes. It would be much cheaper to curtail climate change now than replace or move these massive structures later. Heal recommends financial incentives such as subsidies for buying electric vehicles and requiring businesses to generate certain fractions of energy from renewable sources, stopping more damage from fossil fuels. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University