Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will looking beyond genes to proteins help us find new drug targets? A human pancreatic tumor Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Two new tests created by Columbia researchers look beyond cancer genes to identify potential new targets for treatment. Andrea Califano, chair of systems biology at Columbia's Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, developed the tests DarwinOncoTreat and DarwinOncoTarget in partnership with DarwinHealth, a Manhattan-based biotech firm co-founded by Califano. Thanks to recent advances in genomic sequencing, many cancer tumors are analyzed for mutated genes, called “actionable mutations,” that can be treated using existing drugs. Yet most patients lack actionable mutations, and even for those who have them, drug resistance can rapidly develop. To expand potential targets and treatment options, Califano and his team looked to the activities of otherwise normal proteins and molecular pathways that contribute to the cancer cells’ malignancy. Along with Mariano Alvarez, DarwinHealth’s Chief Scientific Officer, they developed algorithms that can uncover the hidden networks of proteins that work together to control abnormal cell activity in an individual patient’s tumor. Both tests use these algorithms to focus on proteins. DarwinOncoTarget identifies all proteins in an individual’s tumor that are acting abnormally and for which a drug already exists. DarwinOncoTreat focuses on the entire complement of proteins responsible for launching and maintaining a specific tumor to predict the drugs that will best disrupt these proteins. We are very pleased to be the first institution to provide access to these tests,” says Kevin Roth, chair of pathology and cell biology. “Making these tests available to cancer researchers and oncologists around the country will give the cancer community new tools to help align cancer treatment to the unique characteristics of a patient’s tumor.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we tailor bladder cancer treatments to patients? Why do genetic mutations cause disease in some people but not in others? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Can genomic testing help us better treat kidney disease? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University