Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can we predict who will develop Parkinson’s disease before symptoms develop? Precision Medicine Data and Society Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel DuBois Bowman, a professor of biostatistics at Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health, is creating new methods of analyzing brain imaging data to predict which patients will develop Parkinson’s disease. The disease begins with the death of dopamine-producing neurons in the area of the brain controlling movement. Symptoms do not manifest immediately—there is a delay before outward signs emerge. To enable early detection, Parkinson’s researchers are attempting to create tools that spot neurodegeneration before external symptoms appear. Bowman has developed an advanced statistical learning technique to analyze brain imaging data, drawing from a large cohort of patients. This imaging data captures detailed information about brain structure and function, and Bowman’s analysis allows him to identify biomarkers that indicate early signs of the disease. When patients are diagnosed sooner, as Bowman’s work will make possible, they can begin a regimen of neuroprotective treatments that slow the disease's progression. By postponing the onset of damaging motor symptoms, they can live longer and healthier lives. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University