What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Grateful The University of Texas at Austin’s Grateful impact report illustrates the difference gifts are making for our students, our campus and our communities. From life-changing scholarships to bold research, the generosity of our donors is changing the world. Read Online Homebase: Austin For Dell Technologies — a longstanding UT partner — social and computing progress go hand in hand. Promoting Change Morgan Grosch, BBA, B.A. ’21, plans to change the world by fighting income inequality. Passion Over Paycheck COVID-19 pandemic helps Tucker Pope, M.D. ’21, find his passion for internal medicine. Inspiring Greatness Jalesha Bass, B.S. ’21, is eager to give back by helping others realize their worth and potential. Life Lessons After receiving scholarship support at UT, Mia Stanley, B.A. ’21, now works to ensure other students have the same opportunities. The Inventor Entrepreneur Arjun Menta, B.S.A., BBA ’21, credits his scholarships for giving him the confidence to take risks. Dare to Dream Ava Karimi, M.D., MBA ’20, member of inaugural Dell Med class, inspired by donor support. Opening Doors to Education Brandon Okeke, B.S. ‘20, shares how ULN helped him make a lasting impact on the Forty Acres. Ripple Effect Dell Scholar David Chen, B.S. ’20, sees his scholarship as first wave of positive change. Lights, Camera, Thank You Laura Laughead, B.J ’20, shares the true value of a Longhorn education. Ready to Serve Samuel Arciniega, B.A. ’20, shares his gratitude for help during pandemic, hopes to pay it forward. Super Connector Luca Tomescu, B.S. ’20, turns UT opportunities into enterprise. Ready to Lead The inaugural Dell Medical School class reflects on milestones and serving the community during a pandemic. Texas Loves a Challenge Alumni leverage gift match for students. Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback