Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Facilities/The Barnes Center at The Arch The Barnes Center at The Arch Syracuse University recently opened the Barnes Center at The Arch, the University’s new state-of-the-art health, wellness and recreation complex. The new facility and the programs that find their home there include many amenities found in other college and university recreation centers, but the facility isn’t what makes the Barnes Center transformational for students. Recognizing that individual well-being encompasses mind, body and spirit, the Barnes Center offers something different. Its staffing, resources and services go well beyond the scope of a traditional college recreation center. In addition to recreational fitness and personal training, students will find student health clinics, nutritional advice and stress management, meditation resources and mental health counseling in a central location. “Today’s university students want excellent academics, extracurricular activities that ignite their passion, and health and wellness opportunities that help balance the rigor and demands of their entire experience. Creating a place where students can find life balance will empower them to succeed,” says Board of Trustees Chairman Emeritus Steven W. Barnes ’82. This was the vision that led Barnes and his wife, Deborah, to donate $5 million to help build the center—a central component of a plan to transform the student experience at Syracuse University. Visit the Barnes Center website for more information. In This Section Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top