Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Graduation 2022 With support from Wolfpack donors, NC State's class of 2022 is graduating ready to excel as professionals, as leaders and as community members. Meet our new and recent graduates Giving News More New Deanships Established Through Two Longstanding Partnerships with NC State The College of Engineering and the College of Veterinary Medicine have each announced transformational gifts from long-term philanthropic leaders that will endow two new dean’s chairs at NC State. Learn more What It Means To Think and Do: Turning Passion Into a Career Victoria Fuda graduated this December with some incredible experience under her belt thanks to private support. Because of NC State’s Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign, she is equipped for a big, bold future as one of the university’s newest alumni. Learn more A Transformational Gift to Strengthen Community Alumni Dewayne and Adama Washington are giving back to athletics and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences in order to expand opportunities and support for students, particularly those from groups underrepresented in higher education. Learn more Thomas E. Cabaniss ’72 Receives 2021 Menscer Cup Award Tom’s longstanding commitment to his alma mater made him the perfect choice for one of NC State’s highest philanthropic honors. Learn more An Extraordinary Gift Honors NC State’s Veteran and Military-Affiliated Students NC State alumnus and former officer in the U.S. Navy Jeff Wright has made a gift to benefit the university’s more than 2,000 self-identified veterans and children or spouses of veterans. Learn more For Ade, Professorship Fuels Growth Harald Ade, Goodnight Innovation Distinguished Professor, is grateful for the resources his professorship provides. He says that these positions don’t just boost faculty research — they retain and attract the brightest minds. Learn more Featured Series Meeting Our Students’ Needs We’re committed to ensuring that every promising scholar who wants to come to NC State can do so. We’re also removing barriers and challenges to their success once they get to campus. Private support is making all of this possible — and much, much more. Learn more A Legend in Stone With real bells in the belfry and a red glow once again lighting up its restored exterior in moments of celebration, the Memorial Belltower endures as both a gathering place and a site of remembrance. Learn more about this hallowed place, whose first cornerstone was laid in 1921. Learn more Get Involved It takes our entire Pack to help us think and do the extraordinary. Here’s how you can contribute. Learn More Connect With Us Want to hear about extraordinary happenings at NC State? Sign up for our latest Giving stories. Email* Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.