Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Scientists created a superimposed graph of embryonic stem cells (blue) transitioning into motor neurons (green) (Credit: Ira Schieren/Columbia's Zuckerman Institute). The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Central to our ability to walk, the spine also is the site of neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic injuries. To help develop effective treatments, scientists at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute are mapping the spinal cord, cell by cell. “We don’t understand all the cell types that exist within the brain and the spinal cord, and we also don’t understand their function,” says Abbas Rizvi, associate research scientist and leader of Columbia’s cell atlas project. Now, the team is isolating individual cells from each segment of the spinal cord and performing genetic analysis on them with sophisticated computational tools. New imaging techniques are making it possible to peer inside human tissue to provide the most accurate look at cells in their environment. Together, these will create a highly detailed guide available to all. The project is supported by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. “One of the things that I love the most about this project is that it really enables the construction of community, locally within our lab but also within our institute here at Columbia, and then even broader than that, interfacing with an international community,” says Rizvi. Theoreticians, mathematicians, and computational biologists across the University as well as around the world are working together to build this open resource. In its pinpoint accuracy and accessibility, the guide holds tremendous potential for understanding and treating diseases like ALS. For example, in ALS, certain motor neurons are selectively vulnerable to cell death. With a deeper knowledge of these motor neurons’ function and location, scientists may be able to develop highly targeted therapies. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University