Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Helping veterans transition from combat to classroom Photo Credit: Eileen Barroso Just Societies General Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In the fall of 2017, Columbia opened the Center for Veteran Transition and Integration to better support veterans making the transition to college and the workforce. “Student veterans who take the path from active military service to the rigors of a college classroom tell us the same thing: transitioning from being in the service to being a student isn’t always straightforward, and the culture shift can be jarring,” said R.J. Jenkins, the former associate dean of students at the School of General Studies, who leads the Center's curriculum design team. The Center builds on the momentum of the past decade in which Columbia has developed the most successful veterans program at an Ivy League school. One of its first initiatives is a free online course, or MOOC (massive open online course), for any veterans-in-transition. The MOOC offers strategies for academic success for service members and veterans, led by a team of academic advisors with more than 20 years of experience supporting thousands of student veterans. Major Michael Abrams, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan and current Marine Corps Reservist, as well as the founder of FourBlock, a program to prepare veterans for business careers, has been appointed the Center's executive director. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University