Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA)/Giving Opportunities Giving Opportunities An Unsurpassed Student Experience: Creating a brighter future for us all Every student should have the opportunity to explore, discover and realize their full potential. Your generosity and investment in the human spirit allows deserving students to pursue their passions and provides access to experiences that will help them succeed in the classroom, in the community and around the world. We embrace inclusivity and provide access to hands-on opportunities through scholarships, fellowships and multicultural experiences that broaden views, create positive connections and reveal new paths forward. Our inclusive and accessible spaces and cultural centers give students an appreciation of diverse viewpoints, cultures, interests and beliefs. Giving Opportunities Hildegarde and J. Myer Schine Student Center: The hub of student life and the gateway to campus, this space is a truly inclusive and fully accessible location for dining, student cultural centers, activities and organizations. The Disability Cultural Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs and LGBTQ Resource Center are co-located in a central, easily accessible space to honor the intersectionality of identity and allow for coalition-building and collaboration. Donor and naming opportunities include the Intercultural Collective (office suite, lounge, reception), shared library and work room and two conference rooms. 119 Euclid: Formerly the site of administrative offices, 119 Euclid returns to its original home-like state as a comfortable and welcoming space for the campus community—especially Black students and those interested in Black history and culture—to relax, share, learn and grow. In this space, Black students can learn from each other, broaden perspectives through historical context, and support individual and collective success. 119 Euclid is a special place that acknowledges, validates and uplifts the Black experience, benefitting all students on the campus of Syracuse University. Our Time Has Come Scholarship Program: For more than 30 years, this program has honored outstanding students for their academic achievements, awarding more than 1,500 scholarships to date. It is the University’s largest endowment benefitting underrepresented students with an unmet financial need. Giving opportunities include the Vanessa Williams Scholarship, Kevin Richardson Scholarship, Dave Bing Scholarship, Lois and Martin Whitman Scholarship, Syracuse 8 Scholarship, Corning Scholars Fund and more. Indigenous Student Support: Located just minutes from the heart of Haudenosaunee territory, Syracuse University is invested in promoting cross-cultural dialogue, research, and appreciation for Native American leadership, innovation and contributions. Giving opportunities include the Haudenosaunee Promise Scholarship, Haudenosaunee Honor Scholarship, the Indigenous Pathways Grant and the Native Student Program. ACE Mentor Scholarships: Offered to selected students who are admitted to the College of Engineering and Computer Science or the School of Architecture. GEM Fellowships: A program of the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science that provides fellowships in an engineering or science discipline. STEM Fellowships: Designed to help students from underrepresented groups pursue doctoral programs. STOP Bias: A Universitywide initiative that educates the campus community about bias and provides resources to report and receive support for bias-related incidents. Academic Excellence: Inspiring all learners, investing in teaching and creating promising futures Now, more than ever, Syracuse University needs your support to broaden the impact that our educators, innovators and entrepreneurs can have on individuals, on our campus, in our communities and around the world. By supporting recruitment and retention of diverse faculty and student-focused cultural and research centers, you are investing in the promise of an academic experience that is equitable and provides each individual on our campus with the resources and support they need to be successful. Despite the challenges we face, we are resilient and committed to creating extraordinary academic opportunities for our students and faculty. From social justice research to graduate fellowships to endowed chairs and professorships―your support empowers our global community. Strategic investments in recruiting, retaining and supporting outstanding faculty from various backgrounds allows us to expand our research impact, innovate for the greater good and drive breakthrough discoveries. Giving Opportunities The Lender Center for Social Justice: The Lender Center fosters proactive, innovative and interdisciplinary approaches to issues related to social justice, equity and inclusion. Endowed chairs and professorships: Attract highly qualified faculty and promote expertise in specific areas of research. Recruitment of faculty and post-doctoral students. Visiting Faculty Fellows Graduate Fellowships and research opportunities for students. Cluster Hires Initiative: Ten cross-disciplinary clusters bolster the University’s research enterprise and reaffirms its commitment to hire, develop and retain diverse faculty. Unique Learning Opportunities: Opening doors and empowering all At Syracuse University, we embrace a proud tradition of welcoming students from all backgrounds, excluding no one and valuing everyone’s contributions. As we face increasingly complex challenges, inclusiveness is more important than ever, and we understand that learning from others and embracing differences is at the heart of the university experience. Together, we can strengthen our commitment to diversity, equity, accessibility and inclusion through faculty recruiting, scholarship and fellowship investments and continuing to provide best-in-class educational opportunities to students with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Our students are part of a rich, multifaceted community where members from all walks of life are empowered to find their voice, share their insights and expertise, and become part of something bigger than themselves. Giving Opportunities InclusiveU: This initiative of the Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education serves students with intellectual and developmental disabilities who want to experience college life fully. First-Generation Student Support (e.g., Project Transition): Tutoring services, immersions, career planning, mental health resources, family engagement, and alumni and peer mentoring. Internships for underrepresented students. Syracuse Public Interest Network: Fellowships for internships/externships/postgraduate work in public interest and social justice. Syracuse Abroad: Students become global citizens through international study opportunities in more than 60 countries. Programs include Paris Noir, which focuses on the influence and dynamics of Black culture, literature and experience in Paris, both past and present. Veterans and Military-Connected Support: Investing in scholarships, programming and hands-on experiences through the Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF), the Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) and the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC) helps support those currently serving in the military, veterans and their families. For more information about any of the above opportunities and other ways you can support diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility at Syracuse University, contact Rachel Vassel, associate vice president for multicultural advancement, at revassel@syr.edu or 315.385.9988. In This Section Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top