Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can hundreds of female patients advance endometriosis research? Citizen Endo team, from left: Sylvia English, Mollie McKillop, Noemie Elhadad Data and Society Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Endometriosis is a complicated, understudied condition diagnosed in more than 200,000 women per year. It can cause infertility and is linked to ovarian cancer, but it remains difficult to diagnose as symptoms vary widely from case to case. A new app developed by Columbia researchers is helping endometriosis patients become citizen-scientists—bridging the gap between how doctors treat the disease and how patients variously experience it. Noémie Elhadad, associate professor of biomedical informatics, launched Citizen Endo, a series of studies that lets patients actively participate in research. Elhadad was herself diagnosed with endometriosis at the age of 13, but the condition, estimated to affect 1 in 10 women, is still a bit of a mystery. She and her team hope to use the information Citizen Endo collects to improve diagnosis and treatment of women, including those at risk of infertility. The mobile app Phendo is one of Citizen Endo’s first efforts to collect data directly from women with endometriosis. Since the app’s launch in December 2016, more than 1,700 women have used Phendo to track their symptoms, the disorder’s impact on their daily lives, and the treatments they tried—data currently missing from medical literature. When enough data is collected, Elhadad and her team will look for clusters of patient characteristics to better understand why some women have certain symptoms and others do not. This information could help clinicians take an individualized, precision medicine-based approach to treating women with different endometriosis symptoms. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University