Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can a New UV Light Zap the Coronavirus? COVID-19 Recovery Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A narrow wavelength of ultraviolet (UV) light in public spaces may slow the spread of COVID-19. Scientists at Columbia’s Center for Radiological Research built lamps that shine a light, known as far-UVC, which can kill viruses. “Far-UVC light has the potential to be a ‘game changer,’” said David Brenner, professor of biophysics and director of the center. “It can be safely used in occupied public spaces, and it kills pathogens in the air before we can breathe them in.” At indoor locations with many people, like schools or airports, shining far-UVC lights inside may allow us to responsibly recover from COVID-19. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Brain lab becomes 3D-printing factory for healthcare worker face shields Columbia AIDS researchers pivot to treatments for COVID-19 and future pandemics Columbia Screens COVID-19 Survivors for Antibodies CovidWatcher App Tracks Coronavirus Path and Effects in NYC See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University