Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Forever Orange/Academic Excellence Academic Excellence: Expanding What’s Possible From building on our best-in-class research capabilities to growing interdisciplinary programs and faculty, we’re advancing breakthrough research, breakout thinkers and creative risk-takers. Research Advancement at All Levels Our research discoveries light the way to new ideas and solutions. As a top-tier research university, we work across traditional disciplines to solve society’s greatest challenges. Strategic investments in recruiting, retaining and supporting outstanding faculty allow us to elevate and expand our research impact, leading to more breakthrough discoveries and bigger, bolder thinking. Together we can fuel discovery. Syracuse University’s recruitment of outstanding faculty and retention of high-achievers who are already leaders in their fields can be enhanced through endowed chairs and professorships. With more startup funds for early-career faculty to get established or allow interdisciplinary teams to test the feasibility of high-potential ideas, together we can enable first-of-their-kind discoveries, products and even industries. Your contributions make new research opportunities possible for students, too. Graduate fellowships help students follow their own research questions and undergraduate students get to work with and discover alongside top scholars in hands-on settings beyond the classroom. Interdisciplinary Faculty Collaboration Today’s interconnected challenges and questions demand interdisciplinary problem solving. That’s why we’re committed to connecting people, perspectives and practices to create solutions in emerging fields. Together, we can make Syracuse University a national and international leader in tackling relevant issues for a rapidly changing world. Interdisciplinary faculty clusters are a proven way for universities to make an impact and distinguish themselves in research and scholarship. In addition to helping recruit and retain faculty leaders through endowed chairs and professorships, investments in interdisciplinary research have impact beyond one college, school or program. Research funds, support for graduate and postdoctoral fellowships in emerging areas and sustaining funds for interdisciplinary centers and institutes are all ways that allow us to arrive at groundbreaking solutions, faster. High-Potential Research Areas Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning & Autonomous Systems Policy Aging, Behavioral Health & Neuroscience Energy & the Environment Big Data & Data Analytics BioInspired Science & Technology Innovation & Entrepreneurship Social Differences & Social Justice World-Class Teaching We value leading-edge research and world-class teaching and learning equally. Our scholars and thinkers are not only trailblazers, they’re also mentors and guides, helping to shape the next generation of researchers, entrepreneurs, professors, educators and leaders. We are investing in our faculty across the University, because those who are unafraid to discover, invent and innovate bring us closer to a future as bold and bright as our Orange community. Supporting one of Syracuse University’s teaching and learning enhancement programs or faculty development resources helps our outstanding professors create new ways for students to learn—in the classroom, in labs and maker spaces, and in field sites and cities across the nation and around the world. Immersive experiences and hands-on collaborative learning span settings from Syracuse to Santiago, and from stages to screens to startups, giving our graduates the edge in competitive careers. In This Section Forever Orange Academic Excellence Faculty Excellence Program An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities “Undergraduate research and original creative work have powerful impacts on the success of all students, and these trends are even more pronounced across diverse constituencies.” Cathryn Newton Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top