Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Rachel Adams Just Societies Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Professor of English and Comparative Literature My commitment: Furthering understandings of disability From the beginning of my career as a scholar, I’ve had an interest in the history and culture of disability. When my second child was born, and I learned that he had Down syndrome, I had to think about how to bring together my academic commitments with my new role as a parent and an advocate. Having a person with a disability in my family has enriched my teaching, my scholarship, and my work with students and colleagues at Columbia and beyond. We will all, if we’re lucky to live long enough, someday become disabled, as will those we know and love. This means that disability is not a question belonging to a particular interest group. It’s something that should be of concern to everyone. I am committing to furthering understanding of these issues, both in academia and in the public conversation. Keep up with Rachel Adams: @RachelAdams212 Ideas and Impact Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University