Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can a student once in prison support formerly incarcerated scholars like her? Just Societies General Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Leyla Martinez ’18GS, a single mom from The Bronx, struggled to get to college because of her criminal record, which barred her from traditional routes to higher education. Now, due in large part to Columbia’s Justice-in-Education Initiative, she has graduated with a bachelor’s degree in human rights. While at Columbia, Martinez also founded and was president of the Beyond the Box Initiative, an organization to support students on campus whose lives have been impacted by mass incarceration. With Beyond the Box, Martinez advocated for inclusive campus policies to help give Columbia students connected to the criminal justice system a fair shot—starting with removing the “have you been convicted” box on students’ campus employment forms. “I have found such an amazing support system at the School of General Studies—not only among our incredible student body, but also with our administrators—that I’ve found the strength to openly share who I am and help inspire others,” she said. Martinez is also a criminal justice reform advocate and a founding member of the National Council of Incarcerated and Formerly Incarcerated Women and Girls (National Council). As a member of the National Council, she has traveled to several different states to speak to Law School students about the effects of incarceration on women, children and communities. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can an online course expand knowledge of women's history? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University