Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can predicting heat waves save lives? Climate Response The Earth Institute Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Heat waves take a toll on health and economic well-being around the world. To address this, Hannah Nissan, a postdoctoral research fellow at the International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI), and colleagues proposed a heat wave definition in Bangladesh, a first step toward creating a heat warning system in the country. Nissan and Katrin Burkart at Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health estimated that at least 3,800 people died from an eight-day heat wave in 2008 in Bangladesh. Two-thirds of those killed were 65 or older. Heat-related illnesses and loss of economic productivity are also issues. Once the relationship between heat and human health is established, climate scientists can start to better predict extreme heat events. “There are many simple actions we can take to reduce the impact heatwaves have on people, but we rely on good warning systems, and public awareness," said Maarten van Aalst, an adjunct researcher at IRI and co-author of the study. "Studies like these are critical to fill these gaps, especially in highly vulnerable countries such as Bangladesh.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Can we design more efficient solar cells? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University