Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Data and Society Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel With more data created in the past two years than in all of human history, storage technology is inundated with information. Columbia researchers discovered one surprising cure for our data-storage woes: DNA. DNA is an ideal storage medium. It is about one million times more compact than current, physical storage means, and it can last hundreds of thousands of years—the same cannot be said of old mix-tapes, scratched CDs, and fragile hard drives. Researchers at Columbia and the New York Genome Center (NYGC) used a new algorithm to maximize DNA’s storage potential by squeezing information into its four base nucleotides. They encoded six files into DNA, including a full computer operating system, an 1895 French film, a $50 Amazon gift card, and a computer virus. With DNA, all of the world’s data could be stored in a single room. “We believe this is the highest-density data-storage device ever created,” said Yaniv Erlich, a computer science professor at Columbia Engineering, member of Columbia’s Data Science Institute, and a core member of the NYGC. While it is currently cost-prohibitive ($7,000 to synthesize DNA for archiving two megabytes of data, and another $2,000 to read it), the ability to pack this much information into such a versatile vessel holds tremendous promise for future data preservation. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is digital anonymity an illusion? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University