Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home What if climate models are wrong? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Climate models are based on historical data documenting heatwaves, cold air outbreaks, and more. But what happens when other factors cause climate events to deviate from predictive models? Radley Horton, associate research professor at Columbia's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, studies the possibility that the models used to predict climate behavior may be missing crucial influences that could alter the outcomes, possibly for the worse. Small increases in temperature and rises in sea level can create big changes in the frequency of major weather events such as flooding and dangerous heat waves. Floods that used to occur once every hundred years could happen every 10 or 20 years, given a drastic rise in sea levels. Horton’s work aims to make such events easier to predict and prepare for to mitigate damage to our ecosystems and infrastructure. Learn more. Watch Horton discuss his commitment to climate response. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Can we design more efficient solar cells? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University