Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel As if you needed an excuse, adding more chocolate to the tip of your tongue may help you recall memories on the tip of your brain. Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) scientists discovered that dietary cocoa-flavanols, naturally occurring bioactives found in cocoa, can reverse age-related memory decline. Memory decline—misplacing car keys, trouble putting names to faces, and other minor frustrations—begins in early adulthood, and is a part of aging. But CUIMC scientists have linked age-related memory loss to changes in a specific region of the brain (the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus), which can be offset by dietary intervention, particularly with more high-cocoa-flavanol. Mars, Incorporated (maker of Mars, Milky Way, M&M's, Snickers, and Twix) partly funded the research and prepared a cocoa flavanol test drink for the CUIMC study. Volunteers, ages 50 to 69, were randomized to receive either a high-flavanol diet or a low-flavanol diet for three months. Brain imaging and memory tests were administered to each participant before and after the study. “When we imaged our research subjects’ brains, we found noticeable improvements in the function of the dentate gyrus in those who consumed the high-cocoa-flavanol drink,” said lead author Adam M. Brickman, associate professor of neuropsychology at the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer’s Disease and the Aging Brain. The high-flavanol group also performed significantly better on the memory test. The study was published in Nature Neuroscience. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University