Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Donor Impact Donor Impact Ensuring Whitman Students Stand Ready to IMPRESS in the Business World Kenneth “Kenny” Goodman ’70 knows what it takes to be successful in the business world and he has committed himself to ensuring that Syracuse University graduates are a step ahead and better prepared to compete in a fast-changing world. That’s why the retired director, president and chief operating officer of the international pharmaceutical giant Forest Laboratories has committed an additional $1.25 million to the Forever Orange Campaign and the Whitman School of Management to significantly expand its Goodman IMPRESS program, a professional and personal development program he helped launch in 2014. Sharing the Importance of Education Vishal Shukla ’89 had the good fortune of growing up in a family that stressed the value of education. Understanding the importance of learning gave him a solid foundation to build upon and it led him to begin thinking about laying a similar bedrock for future students in the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Through a gift to the Forever Orange Campaign, Shukla is honoring his parents and their emphasis on education by establishing scholarships in their names to benefit future students. Inspiring Innovation by Bringing Opportunity to Diverse Talent It was the mid-1960s and Nicholas “Nick” Donofrio G’71, H’11 described it as a “great time” for electrical engineers. They were in huge demand and the young graduate from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute took a job at IBM in Poughkeepsie, New York. That’s where he was introduced to Syracuse University. The University offered an extension program at IBM, sending professors to the Hudson Valley offices to provide graduate courses on site to full-time employees. The bond between Donofrio and Syracuse University grew so strong that it inspired his service and philanthropy, as he saw opportunities to help new generations of students with generous gifts that went beyond dollars. The Class of 2021 Makes Their Mark Class Act is the Class of 2021 Giving campaign and is led by student ambassadors who encourage their peers to make a gift in honor of their graduation. As a thank you and as recognition of their generosity, donors are given special Orange, white, and silver Class Act cords to wear at Commencement. Orange Team Challenge. Calling All Former Student-Athletes!Our goal is to create a level playing field where every former student-athlete can make an impact on their sport and show their Orange pride while supporting current student-athletes. Your contributions will help us to recruit, retain, and develop student-athletes and coaches to build and sustain championship programs in every sport. Virtual Whitman Day is April 29! The Whitman School of Management aims to inspire and prepare students for a world of accelerating change. Every day, we strive to be an exemplary business school by providing highly relevant experiential, interdisciplinary and international initiatives. We hope you can join us on 4/29 for a virtual Whitman Day 2021 address by Dean Anderson and consider supporting the Whitman Day CuseFunder! Class of 2021 Provides 235 Meals to Hendricks Food Pantry This year, the Class of 2021 has given more than $1,175 to ensure all Syracuse University students have consistent access to enough food for an active and healthy lifestyle. By providing more than 235 meals, they helped students worry less about what they need to survive and focus more on what they need to thrive. A total of $7,721 has been raised collectively and there is still time to make a gift and see how other class years are stacking up! Be the Silver Lining for a Student Today! Our students have adapted and shown incredible grace and determination to make the most of their time on campus, and they’ll be ready to take on whatever else the world may throw at them. In this time of physical distance, the people and places that mean the most to us are held even closer to our hearts. Now more than ever, we appreciate your support of our Orange family and look forward to connecting with you! Your Gift Can Have 3x the Impact! When you make a gift for National Orange Day 2021, celebrating 151 years of Syracuse University, your gift will be matched 3-to-1 to the General Supported Scholarship Fund up to $50,000, thanks to a generous donor! From March 22 through March 28, our goal is for 151 donors to make a scholarship gift, because when you give to scholarship, you open doors for exceptional students from diverse backgrounds who aspire to be Orange. Embodying the Orange Spirit Though she moved nearly 700 miles away from Syracuse University after her graduation in 1950, Renée Schine Crown ’50, H’84 has never let the distance between Syracuse and Chicago stand in the way of a deep and abiding connection to her beloved alma mater. Investing in the Student Experience When it reopens in spring 2021, the newly renovated Schine Student Center will be an open, inviting, inclusive and fully accessible space—housing the University’s diverse cultural centers, student activities and organizations, a lively two-floor atrium and more. And within the transformed dining area, an iconic new “booth box” will acknowledge the generosity of Thomas (TJ) and Tara Maher ’93, who chose to celebrate their daughter Kylie’s graduation from Syracuse with a special tribute gift. As members of the Joseph I. Lubin Society and the Parents Council, the Mahers are among the most involved Orange families, and the fondness for Syracuse begins with Tara’s own student experience in the early 90s. Our Growing Philanthropic Culture The Forever Orange campaign is truly for everyone, purposefully structured to include not only a dollar goal, but donor and engagement goals. For the past several years, participation-driven fundraising has attracted a broad range of donors and demonstrated the impact that gifts at all levels can make. And the message is getting through, with increased philanthropy among all constituencies-even in uncertain economic times. Giving Back and Creating Opportunities: Gifting Textbooks for First-Generation Students For Shelly Lotman Fisher ’80, a Syracuse University education came with lots of textbooks…and a whole lot more. “I loved every minute of my time there. I grew both educationally and as a person,” she explains. “It really helped give me the confidence to do all the things I’ve done in my life.” Syracuse Responds, thanks to you! Through the generosity of donors, more than $1.6 million has been raised for the Syracuse Responds relief effort through gifts to the Dean’s Funds, the Syracuse Responds Fund and the Food Pantry. Susan Church Andersson ’84 Honors A Season Lost, Supporting the Syracuse Women’s Rowing Program A January visit with the current Syracuse University women’s rowing team prompted Susan Church Andersson ’84 to make a choice. “I decided if I can support the program, I should do it now.” Andersson’s support will come in the form of a new boat for the program—one that will be named in honor of the season lost due to the COVID-19 world health pandemic. Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top