Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home "The Life of the Mind" Sam Fleck ’17GSAS Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Why We Give Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel As an Italian literature student at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Sam Fleck ’17GSAS regularly deciphered handwriting on his papers to absorb his advisor’s meticulous feedback. Paolo Valesio, a prolific poet and professor emeritus at Columbia, worked closely with Fleck and other graduate students to, in Fleck’s words, enrich the life of the mind. “When [Valesio] sat down to read something you wrote, he seriously engaged with your work,” says Fleck. “He would make extensive notes, so lengthy they would go on for pages. I learned from him how to be a careful reader.” The intensity of professors like Valesio energized Fleck for many years at Columbia. “I spent as much time as I could reading, hours a day. I loved it.” But he noticed some advanced graduate students were not as lucky to have all that time as they worked to finish their dissertations. To help students immerse themselves in their studies, Fleck, now a translator, decided before the pandemic last spring to create a fellowship for graduate students. Then in April 2020, right as a global crisis strained the University, the Fleck Family Fellowship Fund got off the ground. The timing was critical. “I couldn’t have anticipated that, but I’m glad the moment was so significant and serendipitous in helping students.” Each year, the Fund supports a GSAS student in the humanities. “Italian epitomizes the humanities to me. And the humanities are invaluable,” says Fleck. “They have infinite depth and richness. Going to graduate school to study them is well worth it.” With Fleck’s gift, a Columbia humanities scholar will benefit from the Fleck family’s appreciation of the life of the mind. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact "What Money Can’t Buy" Hugh Hayden '18SOA "Seeing Both Sides of Life at Columbia" Paul Chiu ’85SEAS, ’94BUS "To Help Somebody like Me" Marie Serrano '77SW "Opening Up a World" Rebecca Mostel ’75TC See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University