Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Ethics curriculum enriches data courses Data and Society Data Science Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Advanced technology and algorithms influence everything from the news we read to our politics on social media to our mortgage qualifications. Yet computer science courses mostly lack an ethics component for future developers who will go on to wield such capabilities. A team of Columbia professors and students have gathered to ensure the use of data for good, promoting diverse ideas to develop equitable technology. The team is creating an “ethical companion” chapter to complement computer science textbooks. They are also building a website with slides, lectures, and case studies that probe the ethical dilemmas of areas such as social networks and algorithm design. A foundation in ethics will help students grapple with questions such as, “Do we really want to build apps that people use out of habit, and not because the app delivers value?" It will also help future developers identify and root out biases that can creep into automated systems. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What is the Columbia commitment to data and society? Can data from old wildfires predict and prevent the next ones? How can we prevent violence caused by climate change? Can tracking surgeons' stress make surgery safer? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University