Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home New Doctoral Fellowships for Engineering Thought Leaders and Innovators in Data Science Engineering News Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel One of the early supporters of the University-wide Columbia Student Support Initiative, announced in April 2021 by President Bollinger, is Armen Avanessians ’83SEAS, chief investment officer of Quantitative Investment Strategies at Goldman Sachs. Avanessians recently conferred a $10 million dollar gift to Columbia for the Avanessians Doctoral Fellowships for Engineering Thought Leaders and Innovators in Data Science. The gift will support six fellows across Engineering disciplines whose research focuses on or intersects with data science, including those enrolled in the PhD specialization for data science. For Avanessians, the support of graduate students is an essential component in attracting top talent to Columbia and strengthening the research community. With the Avanessians Fellowships, he hopes to entrench Columbia’s growing reputation as a center of excellence for data science. Columbia has intensely focused on this area for more than ten years, most notably with the Data Science Institute (DSI) launch in 2012 in the School of Engineering and Applied Science. “It’s hard to imagine any academic field, certainly any with the word science in it that doesn’t aggressively have data science at its center,” he said. He has worked closely with Mary C. Boyce, dean of Columbia Engineering, on embedding data science throughout Columbia and helping DSI become a powerful University-wide resource. (Note: Columbia Engineering Dean Mary Boyce, began her term as University Provost on July 1, 2021.) “Columbia has such a wealth of expertise in every area—across all fields of engineering, to medicine and law, to journalism, social work, and the arts and sciences,” said Dean Boyce. “These fellowships create a seedbed to attract and propel the next generation of engineering talent in data science to pursue foundational advances in the highly interdisciplinary environment enabled at Columbia.” Read more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University