Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can we design more efficient solar cells? Climate Response Faculty of Arts & Sciences Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel While it has been said there's nothing new under the sun, Columbia scientists have found new ways to use the star's power—unlocking a better way to harvest solar energy. This new technique could boost solar energy use and reduce the burning of fossil fuels. Columbia chemistry professor Xiaoyang Zhu and his team uncovered new efficiencies in solar cell ingredients known as Hybrid Organic-Inorganic Perovskites (HOIPs). Their discoveries could spur engineers to begin inventing new solar materials in the years ahead. Most solar panels are made from silicon panels, which are notoriously fragile and expensive to manufacture. Even a microscopic defect in silicon can reduce the amount of sunlight converted to energy. Because they don’t need to be pristine, HOIPs can be produced on a large scale at low cost. “We’re talking about potentially doubling the efficiency of solar cells,” says Prakriti P. Joshi, a graduate student in Zhu’s lab. “That’s really exciting because it opens up a big, big field in engineering. This shows we can push the efficiencies of solar cells much higher than many people thought possible.” Learn more. Related Podcast: The Power of the Sun Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can predicting heat waves save lives? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University