Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can tracking surgeons' stress make surgery safer? Data and Society Data Science Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Surgeons face many distractions in the operating room, making an already complex task even more challenging. Machines have sporadic alarms, equipment sometimes malfunctions, side conversations take place, and people walk in and out of the room. A new study from a researcher at Columbia’s Data Science Institute shows that stressful events lead to as much as a 66 percent increase in mistakes made by surgeons in the operating room. This shocking finding may lead to new rules safeguarding against distractions to make surgery safer. Peter Dupont Grantcharov, lead author of the study while a master’s student at the Data Science Institute, carried out the study by observing 25 surgical procedures. Not only were the surgeries recorded but Grantcharov also outfitted surgeon Dr. Homero Rivas with a Hexoskin Smart Shirt under his scrubs to monitor his heart rate while he worked. Both his stress levels and surgical errors were time stamped so that Grantcharov could correlate the two. “We hope that other researchers will build upon the methods we showed to be effective, and proceed to look into triggers that cause elevated stress; when we learn about these triggers, it’ll be critical to investigate how to manage the ones which we have control over. If those distractions can be identified, and steps taken to mitigate or eliminate them, operating rooms would be much safer for all of us,” said Grantcharov. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? What is the Columbia commitment to data and society? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University