Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Sameer Sheth, a Columbia neurosurgeon, has been pioneering a new treatment for depression: deep brain stimulation (DBS), which uses electrical currents to modify signals in the brain. Already successfully used to treat Parkinson’s disease, DBS consists of inserting electrodes into a particular region of the brain. In the case of depression, Sheth has been targeting the brain’s mood-related circuits with continuous stimulation through DBS. To administer DBS, Sheth inserts two thin electrodes in the patient’s brain. They run under the skin and down the side of the neck to the upper chest, where they connect to a pacemaker-like battery. Once installed, the device sends continuous stimulation to the brain, quieting abnormal signals within particular circuits. With these signals disrupted, the brain returns to its natural rhythm. Sheth tailors the target of stimulation for each patient, making DBS a particularly effective treatment for depression that hasn’t responded to psychotherapy and multiple medications. Nearly a third of patients with major depressive disorder experience this type of resistant depression. “Rarely is it a complete cure,” says Sheth. “Patients typically still have to work hard to fight through the depression, but this may enable them to do it successfully for the first time.” Sheth believes DBS may also benefit patients struggling with other brain disorders, like obsessive-compulsive disorder, Tourette’s syndrome, and autism. He and a group of Columbia neurologists and psychiatrists are currently developing a range of DBS programs targeted to each disorder. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University