Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Columbia students launch a literary journal for veterans Arts and Ideas Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Three Columbia MFA students, Sam Granoff, Jacob Thomas Schultz, and Stephanie Wobby, teamed up to found The Line, a journal of creative work by veterans and members of military families. Featuring fiction, nonfiction, poetry, art, and veteran-to-veteran interviews, The Line explores aspects of the military experience in ways that civilians may not expect, from post-apocalyptic fantasies to family dramas. Granoff was inspired to start the journal while teaching a writing workshop at Columbia, home to the most veteran students in the Ivy League. His students, all Columbia-affiliated military veterans, had plenty to say about their experiences, particularly about their lives outside of combat. Looking for venues for their writing, Granoff came up short, and resolved to create a place for their work. Granoff reached out to fellow MFA students Jacob Thomas Schultz and Stephanie Wobby, both veterans, and together they created the journal and reached out to veterans’ organizations across the country to encourage submissions. With the assistance of five of their classmates, they produced the first issue, which contains everything from wryly dark fiction about military food to explorations of trauma through ceramics. The Line received support from Columbia Artist/Teachers (CA/T), which offers local communities free writing classes taught by MFA candidates and which ran Granoff’s veterans’ workshop. In keeping with CA/T’s mission of community enrichment through the arts, the journal’s staff created discussion materials to accompany each published piece for high school teachers to download. “We want high-school classrooms, not just literary spaces, to incorporate more veteran work,” said Schultz. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Shawn "JAY-Z" Carter Lecture Series Brings New Perspectives from the Arts and Beyond Butler banner project honors women writers and visionaries How do students bring a vintage synthesizer back its groove? How can art inspire hope during wartime? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University