Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? Just Societies Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Navigating our nation’s legal systems can be confusing and costly; many who need legal support must rely on pro bono attorneys. Columbia’s Pro Bono Caravans, a Social Justice Initiative at the Law School, connects law students to dozens of pro bono organizations nationally and globally, turning students’ spring breaks into immersions in public service. Over 90 students last March worked with 18 organizations around the country. They tackled a range of issues, from combatting excessive criminalization of people of color in Missouri to advising pregnant minors in Texas on reproductive rights to running estate clinics in Wisconsin with Native American communities. Students have also worked with Iraqi and Syrian refugees in Jordan, interviewing torture victims who seek asylum. Many students describe their Caravan experiences as personally and professionally transformative; some have been inspired to pursue public interest careers and join the social justice organizations they once supported as students. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University