Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? Just Societies Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia’s David Rosner helped bring the water crisis in Flint, Michigan to national attention and regularly serves as an expert witness in lawsuits against the lead industry. Professor of sociomedical sciences and co-director of the Mailman School of Public Health’s Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health, Rosner studies occupational disease and industrial pollution, and the failure of Flint baffles him still. “This disaster was entirely preventable. Why hadn’t this city’s leaders carefully checked the water for heavy metal and bacterial contamination? Why would anyone allow children to drink from that river?” said Rosner. Yet there is one positive point in the wake of Flint: lead poisoning is back in public debates. According to Rosner, the crisis has motivated many leaders “in at-risk communities to investigate the environmental hazards around them.” And he holds out hope that after focusing on Flint in his graduate and undergraduate courses, future decision-makers will prevent these crises from happening again. “There’s an old saying that journalism is the first draft of history. I’ve been engaging my students in that first draft,” said Rosner. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? See All Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University