Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia researchers have identified a new approach to understanding psychiatric disorders like depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Rather than focusing on overall levels of chemicals in the brain, they are examining the brain’s wiring to see how and where these chemicals are distributed. Tom Maniatis, professor of molecular and cellular biology and director of Columbia’s University-wide Precision Medicine Initiative, and his colleagues have located a gene that allows neurons that release serotonin, a neurotransmitter, to wind throughout the brain. This even distribution ensures serotonin’s uniform and continuous release, regulating emotion and mood. The researchers deleted this gene from mice, and observed as branches of neurons became entangled. The mice’s neurons still released serotonin, but it no longer flowed evenly throughout their brains. The mice lacking the gene showed striking behavioral differences from normal, healthy mice as they exhibited classic signs of depression such as behavioral despair and enhanced fear memory. “Most studies focus on problems with the production or uptake of serotonin, not on problems with the brain itself,” said Maniatis. “Wiring anomalies are clearly a new place to look.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University