Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How has the move to Manhattanville connected community artists and the public? Photo Credit: Tim Lee Arts and Ideas Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel For most of its 30 years, the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery has been a well-kept secret—a respected gallery space tucked away on the eighth floor of a building on Columbia’s Morningside campus. Now it has moved to a highly visible location in the new Lenfest Center for the Arts, located just north of West 125th Street. On Columbia’s new Manhattanville campus, the Wallach Gallery is more accessible than ever to the community, for artists and audience members alike. The campus has been designed for maximum openness, with many opportunities for local residents to walk, visit, and learn. The Gallery's former director and chief curator Deborah Cullen emphasized a commitment to the community with a triennial showcase of artists who live or work north of 99th street. A critical success, the first Uptown exhibit featured works by 25 artists like Sanford Biggers, Duhirwe Rushemeza, and Elaine Reichek. Bettie-Sue Hertz, the Gallery's current director and chief curator, deepens that commitment with the latest exhibit on contemporary art from Algeria and its Diaspora. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University