Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will cross-generational community foster success? Just Societies Columbia College Engineering General Studies Arts, School of the Professional Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel However unique their experiences, Columbia alumni and students whose parents didn’t go to college or who come from low-income families share common ground. Now these Columbians of underrepresented backgrounds can connect with each other more easily. In 2017, building a supportive and cross-generational community, alumni partnered with the Columbia Alumni Association to launch the Columbia First Generation Low Income Alumni Network (CFLAN). CFLAN kicked off in 2018 with a discussion about what a first-generation identity means to alumni. The inaugural board of CFLAN includes recent graduates of Columbia College, the School of the Arts, Barnard College, School of Professional Studies, and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. “CFLAN can become a strong resource for students who may feel overwhelmed, young alumni who feel unsupported, and seasoned alumni who feel a strong obligation to provide the resources they wish they had,” said inaugural president Lily Rocha ’10CC. “From professional development to life advice tailored to first-generation and low-income students and alumni, CFLAN will help Columbians achieve success, no matter what that may look like." Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people Can students inform NYC's urban agriculture policies? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University