Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can artificial intelligence find better drug treatments? Three of the founders of the Columbia startup Droice: Mayur Saxena, Tasha Nagamine, and Harshit Saxena. Photo Credit: Jeffrey Schifman Precision Medicine Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel To provide optimal patient care, doctors would have to comb through enough data to fill six million pages of text. Critical information can go undetected, leading to such dire consequences as adverse drug reactions. A Columbia startup, Droice, is using artificial intelligence to help doctors make sense of clinical data to prescribe better treatments. Adverse drug reactions are the fourth-leading cause of death in the United States, costing close to $140 billion per year. Each drug performs differently depending on a patient’s age, sex, genetic profile, and co-conditions that include diseases, susceptibilities, and allergies. Doctors must also consider a multitude of relevant scientific literature, clinical trials, and FDA guidelines. Droice predicts the performance of a treatment by combining medical research with an analysis of how that treatment has performed on millions of patients in the past. It then predicts how the same treatment will perform on a new patient. Droice analyzes possible treatment combinations for several common conditions, including diabetes, asthma, and heart disease, which together are responsible for 80 percent of all US prescriptions. In a single glance, doctors can see predictions for each drug treatment, backed by trusted scientific papers. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University