Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How do we prepare future journalists to parse big data for truth? Data and Society Journalism Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel As the staggering amount of data—spanning finance, climate research, voting records, and much more—increases exponentially, having journalists who can access and decipher it is becoming more essential. A new Master's program at Columbia's Graduate School of Journalism is heeding the call. The new Master of Science in Data Journalism program will teach the next generation of journalists to adapt data science to reporting and storytelling while upholding the profession’s core mission of serving the public interest. Mark Hansen, professor of Journalism and director of the David and Helen Gurley Brown Institute for Media Innovation, said receiving a new data set was like "approaching a source who doesn't speak your language." This new program will teach future journalists to speak data's language. Throughout the program, students will gain in-depth training on how to acquire, clean, process, analyze, and visualize data with various technologies. These skills will help them find patterns and outliers that generate journalistic insights, as well as use data to build a narrative. “For journalists to carry out their function as watchdogs on power, storytellers and sifters of the truth, they increasingly must understand how to interrogate data and computer code. We think our new degree offers a leap forward in journalism education, one that is responsive to where our profession must go,” said Steve Coll, dean of Columbia Journalism. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University