Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? Data and Society Engineering International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel When night falls in Sierra Leone, millions must sit in darkness or pay for expensive, polluting kerosene or battery-powered torchlights in order to work, cook, and read. Now, Easy Solar, a startup created by Columbia grads, helps bring low-cost, solar-powered energy to Sierra Leone. Only 10 percent of households and businesses in Sierra Leone are on the grid, and most are in urban areas. For the other 6.5 million residents, Easy Solar offers affordable and upgradable solar-powered lamps and home systems, payable in installments on a mobile phone. Easy Solar’s founders, Nthabi Mosia '16SIPA, Alexandre Tourre '16SIPA, and Eric Silverman '16SIPA, met as master’s students at Columbia’s School of International and Public Affairs, where they built a team to respond to Sierra Leone’s lack of electrification and won several venture competitions along the way. Their team has grown to include top talent from across Sierra Leone, with 10 full-time staff now pushing forward Easy Solar’s strategy on the ground. In the last year, Easy Solar has established 17 distribution points across six of Sierra Leone’s 14 districts, becoming the leading solar company in the country. The company is building on this success by partnering with a leading mobile network operator, making it easier for customers to pay in installments, and it plans to expand into neighboring Liberia and Guinea. “Clean, affordable, and high-quality energy services are the key for Sierra Leone’s inhabitants to start businesses, pursue education, and make better lives for themselves," said Nthabi Mosia '16SIPA, Easy Solar’s co-founder and CFO. Learn more. Related Podcast: The Power of the Sun Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Is digital anonymity an illusion? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University