Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? Arts and Ideas Just Societies Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia’s Wallach Art Gallery has recently presented a stunning new exhibition, “The Black Model from Manet and Matisse to Today.” The show grew out of exhibition curator Denise Murrell’s doctoral research at Columbia on Laure, a model for Manet and a member of the new free-Black community that emerged in Paris after the French abolition of territorial slavery in 1848. Murrell, previously the Wallach Gallery’s Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Research Scholar and now an associate curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, has assembled more than 100 works of art that trace the role of the Black model. The exhibition runs the gamut from works by Manet’s contemporaries and near-contemporaries to Henri Matisse’s portraits of Black dancers inspired by his time in Harlem jazz clubs in the 1930s. "Posing Modernity" places these portraits in conversation with the “New Negro” style created by Harlem Renaissance artists, and it culminates with works by contemporary artists such as Mickalene Thomas. Throughout, the show places the changing representation of the Black female figure at the center of the story of the development of modernism, offering a new way of understanding this influential artistic movement. After closing on February 10 at the Wallach Gallery, the exhibition traveled to the Musée d'Orsay, where it appeared from March 26 to July 14, 2019 in an expanded version as “The Black Model, from Géricault to Matisse.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can storytelling help AI be more human? What can a play reveal about the illegal ivory trade? Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? How can art inspire hope during wartime? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University