Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can mapping hunger in New York City help people in poverty? Just Societies Social Work Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel About 40% of New Yorkers struggle to put food on the table. But these rates vary dramatically by neighborhood. How do we know where food hardship is hitting New Yorkers hardest? That’s where the Center on Poverty and Social Policy came in. Partnering up with the Robin Hood Foundation, the Center launched a Poverty Tracker report to see how short families are falling on their household food budgets. And where on a map of New York City those households live. The Poverty Tracker shows disadvantage is concentrated and compounded in key areas of the city, with the Bronx home to some of the highest food hardship rates. These insights from the Tracker promise to inform better, more targeted policies to alleviate hunger in the Big Apple. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Butler banner project honors women writers and visionaries Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Columbia’s Freedom & Citizenship Program helps NYC high schoolers find new possibilities See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University