What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Partnerships with foundations Call us 512-475-6431 Email us foundationrelations@austin.utexas.edu Call us 512-475-6431 Email us foundationrelations@austin.utexas.edu Connecting foundations and UT to change the world The Foundation Relations team works to match the interests of private foundations with The University of Texas at Austin’s research and programmatic strengths and priorities. We also assist faculty, colleagues and university grant-seekers in identifying foundation funding sources and provide assistance through the proposal process. Get in touch with us to learn how foundation funding opportunities can help UT Austin change the world. Meet the Team Jonelle Bradshaw de Hernandez, M.S, Ph.D. Executive Director of Development, Foundation Relations Alex Christiansen Director of Development achristiansen@austin.utexas.edu Ellen Hull Director of Development, College of Natural Sciences ellen.hull@austin.utexas.edu Robin Johnson Director of Development, Energy, Space, and Sustainability robin.johnson@austin.utexas.edu Michael King Director of Development, Education mking@austin.utexas.edu Noelle O’Donnell Director of Special Projects noelle.odonnell@austin.utexas.edu Laura Soto Director of Development, College of Liberal Arts laura.soto@austin.utexas.edu Meredith Furgerson Development Associate mfurgerson@austin.utexas.edu Christine Napierkowski Development Associate cnapier@austin.utexas.edu Caleb Solberg Development Associate caleb.solberg@austin.utexas.edu For Foundations We strive to advance the university’s academic, research and institutional goals through lasting partnerships with foundations. These partnerships help develop solutions to technical and social challenges, enrich the excellence of faculty research and teaching, and help generations of exceptional students realize their academic potential. For Faculty Our team can help you with every step of the grant application process, from researching foundations to completing proposals. Please see the Grant Application Guide or request a meeting for more information. Foundation Impact For 63 years, The University of Texas at Austin has worked with the Welch Foundation to help change the world. Welch Foundation funding provides the resources our students need to receive a world-class education and for our faculty to prepare the next generation of scientific leaders. The university is grateful to the Welch Foundation for its longstanding support. Funding Opportunities Our grants database is a resource for researching grant opportunities of $50,000 and above. Grants are searchable by research area, amount and deadline, and are typically available one to three months in advance of a deadline. Helpful Links Supporting Documents for Foundations Grant Application Guide Grants Database Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback