Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel At Columbia University Irving Medical Center, every pediatric cancer patient receives genome sequencing of their tumor. Columbia’s Precision in Pediatric Sequencing (PIPseq) program uses technologies that have been largely restricted to research to provide results to the patient’s doctor in less than three weeks. The PIPseq program identifies the molecular drivers of each patient’s cancer—the mutations within a gene that promote cancer development. Once they locate these drivers, physician-scientists can look deeper into the genetic basis of the cancer, pinpointing specific therapeutic targets. Then, they can treat the patient with existing drugs that reach those targets. Since the launch of the PIPseq program in 2014, more than 100 pediatric cancer patients have had their tumors sequenced, helping Columbia physicians in identifying the best treatment for each patient. To take one example, at Columbia, 90 percent of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia are cured, many with the help of information gained through genome sequencing. Learn More. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Can hair loss be reversed? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University