Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Our Commitment to Arts and Ideas Why? The Challenge Our Commitment Provoking us into new ways of seeing, and new ways of being, artists create possibilities. In 1991, playwright Tony Kushner '78CC opened a national conversation about HIV/AIDS with his audacious Angels in America. Now Columbia faculty playwright Lynn Nottage, in the Pulitzer Prize-winning Sweat, tells stories on Broadway of poverty and economic stagnation in a Pennsylvania factory town, exploring the fracturing of the American Dream. The arts, important everywhere, are essential at Columbia. From our MFA programs to the College’s signature Core Curriculum, the making, studying, and direct experience of art occupy a place unparalleled among other major research universities. And the arts connect us to a great global arts city: our artists are New York artists. The arts at Columbia are anchored in a thriving School of the Arts, with leading graduate programs in film, visual art, theatre, and writing. These programs are complemented by the renowned composers, performers, and scholars in our Department of Music. The arts presence extends to classrooms across campus where undergraduates and professional school students have the opportunity to study with and alongside artists, whatever their career goals. And it includes scholarship and research, from the humanities to medicine and neuroscience, on interpreting the arts in relation to other disciplines and ideas. Universities are inherently committed to new ideas and multiple perspectives, and perhaps none more so than this university at this time. As we collaborate in new ways to address the world’s most pressing and intractable problems, Columbia’s artists bring their creative and intuitive power to the conversation. They inform—and transform—how we think and act across campuses. The opening of the Lenfest Center for the Arts on our new Manhattanville campus now embodies the promise of a new chapter for arts and ideas at Columbia. The world wants and needs artists, creative and talented people undaunted by complexity and unbound by conventional thinking. And yet, even at Columbia, the arts and arts scholarship require renewed commitment. Columbia has met the greatest challenge—creating an environment for art and artists to flourish. But that commitment requires renewed and continuous investment—in the spaces and tools for making, sharing, and learning about art, in teaching and research programs within and across disciplines, in the artists themselves. The Columbia Commitment looks across our campuses to amplify the impact of Columbia’s artists and arts scholars in the classroom, the studio, and the world. The Columbia Commitment to the Arts includes enhanced funding for: Student artists. For financial aid to bring the best emerging artists to Columbia without fear of crippling debt, and for project and travel funds to develop and share their work Facilities. For production facilities and classrooms that realize the potential of our students and faculty Humanities, including digital humanities. For the nuanced study and interpretation of the arts Collaboration. For funding interdisciplinary research, dialogue, and teaching that further weave the arts into the fabric of campuses and schools; and for reaching broader public audiences through programming and partnerships The arts engage the most serious issues of our time, cutting across disciplines, cultures, and difference. By placing the School of the Arts and the production and viewing of culture at the entrance to the new Manhattanville campus alongside the brilliant faculty of neuroscience, Columbia University has made a bold statement not only about the future of this new, open urban space, but also about the ambitions of a great 21st-century university to transform the world through scientific and creative research, imagery, thought, and action. Carol Becker Dean, Columbia University School of the Arts Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Ideas and Impact Columbia students launch a literary journal for veterans Learn more Arts and Ideas Shawn "JAY-Z" Carter Lecture Series Brings New Perspectives from the Arts and Beyond Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies "Tales from the Mano River" transforms Miller Theatre Learn more Arts and Ideas Butler banner project honors women writers and visionaries Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies Immersive art illuminates rising sea levels Learn more Arts and Ideas Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience Arts and Ideas Can storytelling help AI be more human? Learn more Arts and Ideas Data and Society How do students bring a vintage synthesizer back its groove? Learn more Arts and Ideas Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies What can a play reveal about the illegal ivory trade? Learn more Arts and Ideas Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? Learn more Just Societies How can art inspire hope during wartime? Learn more Arts and Ideas A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Learn more Arts and Ideas Creating art for all in New York City's subways Learn more Arts and Ideas How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies See All Across Our Campuses How do ancient works inspire students’ creativity? Learn more Arts and Ideas Can visual metaphors deepen public understanding of the brain? Learn more The Future of Neuroscience How can artists and scientists help each other ask questions? Learn more Arts and Ideas Will listening better to patients’ stories improve healthcare? Learn more Arts and Ideas How has the move to Manhattanville connected community artists and the public? Learn more Arts and Ideas Illuminating the present by dramatizing history Learn more Arts and Ideas See All | School Directory David Henry Hwang Playwright on Faculty at the School of the Arts My commitment: Writing beyond what I know I usually have some sort of question that I’m trying to answer for myself. Writing is a way for me to understand how I really feel about a matter, even in my subconscious, even beyond what I know.. Read More George E. Lewis Edwin H. Case Professor of American Music My commitment: Exploring how improvisation can transcend disciplines to illuminate the nature of being human I am a composer and musicologist whose scholarship and teaching explore improvisation as a ubiquitous practice of everyday life.. Read More Zainab Bahrani Edith Porada Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Art and Archaeology My commitment: Preserving historical artifacts to protect cultural heritage threatened by war Given the ravages of war faced by Iraq, the condition of its cultural heritage may seem a trivial matter. But as a historian of antiquity, I am painfully aware of the extensive damage done to the region’s identity by the destruction of its heritage.. Read More Make Your Commitment to Arts and Ideas Give Now Go Deeper Key Related Sites School of the Arts Lenfest Center for the Arts Music Humanities (Arts and Sciences) Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Stay Informed about Columbia's Commitment to Arts and Ideas Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University