Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A new predictive modeling tool will help fight the rising tide of climate change. Columbia scientists developed a computer code that combines complex methods of data gathering to quickly assess the risks of sea-level rise. The code is available to coastal planners and other experts to help them build dikes, design insurance plans for flooding, predict land erosion, and more. The model shows that oceans will rise at least 28 centimeters over the next 100 years, and as much as 131 centimeters if emissions continue apace. This prediction is extremely useful for immediate architectural and other planning along coasts. It also recommends ways to curb further sea rise. If the world cuts fossil fuels and emissions quickly, by 2100, sea level would rise 28 to 56 centimeters over the 1986 to 2005 average. But if emissions increase, sea level would rise by 2100 between 57 and 131 centimeters. The model also takes a longer view, showing the risks of continuing to burn fossil fuels over the next 10,000 years. Anders Levermann, climate scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, worked on the model and subsequent studies with his team. “The emission of greenhouse gases is already changing our climate. If continued, sea level will continue to rise and consume the coastlines and our cultural heritage there for centuries to come,” Levermann said. “Cleaner energy sources exist, and they need to be used intensively if we want to pass on Miami and New York to future generations.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? Can we design more efficient solar cells? How can we better visualize sea-level rise data? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University