Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we prevent violence caused by climate change? SIPA’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Fellows, winners of the 2018 Geneva Challenge on Climate Change Climate Response Data and Society International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In Africa’s Sahel region, south of the Sahara Desert, herding and agriculture contribute to almost 90% of the economy. As climate change impacts the land, herders and farmers increasingly move to better conditions. But this migration can lead to violent conflicts as people compete for scarcer and scarcer resources. Data Analytics for Sustainable Herding (DASH) is a new project from School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) students that explores how big data, artificial intelligence, and machine learning can prevent violence directly caused by climate change's effects. DASH won the 2018 Geneva Challenge for Climate Change, a competition among graduate students “to present innovative and pragmatic solutions to address the main challenges of today’s world.” DASH maps and visualizes changes in migration, climate, and natural resource use. Yet it also maps violent conflicts and analyzes their causes. Through machine learning, DASH combines this information into a model that predicts resource shortages and, in close to real-time, conflicts. This model can help inform policies aimed to prevent violence. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University