Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will documenting human rights conditions help LGBT asylum seekers? Just Societies Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Asylum applicants to the US are required to show why returning to their home country is dangerous, which often means proving their identity is persecuted there. Yet when applicants lack legal representation, gathering this evidence is difficult. To support asylum seekers' cases, the Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic at the Law School released a free, open report of LGBT rights abuses in Guyana, which LGBT asylum seekers from the South American country can now submit to sway a court and find refuge. “All asylum applicants need to submit an index of country conditions to corroborate why they are afraid to return to their home country,” said Jackson Dartez ’18LAW, one of a number of students working under the supervision of Suzanne Goldberg, director of the Clinic and the Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law. “The Clinic’s report provides this supporting evidence for asylum seekers from Guyana who have suffered persecution as a result of their LGBT identity, giving them a fairer chance of succeeding in their application.” Yleana Roman, a staff attorney at Immigration Equality, the country's leading LGBTQ immigration group, noted that having this information available to asylum seekers is crucial: "Well documented country conditions can make all the difference in ensuring an asylum claim is successful. Creating the rport for one asylum seeker helps that person, but by making this widely available, the Clinic is potentially saving the lives of many people." The Clinic has distributed the report through Immigration Equality and has made it available for download on the Clinic website. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University