Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Kate Marvel Climate Response The Earth Institute Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Associate Research Scientist My commitment: Modeling how human behavior affects climate and turning data into solutions I study climate forcings (things that affect the planet's energy balance) and feedbacks (processes that speed up or slow down warming). My research focuses on how human activities affect the climate and what we can expect in the future. I use satellite observations, computer models, and basic physics to study the human impact on variables we care about, from rainfall patterns to cloud cover. So much will change as the climate warms: our coastlines, our food and water sources, and hopefully, eventually, our behavior. Science is telling us that we have a problem, but it’s also telling us that we all must be the solution. Keep up with Kate Marvel: @DrKateMarvel Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can accurate rainfall data help farmers insure their land? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University