Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Creating art for all in New York City's subways Arts and Ideas Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel New York City’s long-awaited extension of the Second Avenue subway line opened on New Year’s Day—an 8.5-mile addition decades in the making. The first major expansion of the system in more than fifty years created four new subway stations: 63rd Street, 72nd Street, 86th Street, and 96th Street. As part of this ambitious project, the MTA selected artists to create immersive artworks for each. Sarah Sze, Columbia professor of visual arts, designed the vast murals that line the walls of the 96th Street station. Selected as the sole US representative to the Venice Biennale in 2013, she is known for works that use common objects in unexpected ways, finding new meanings in everyday experiences. Sarah Sze, Blueprint for a Landscape In her murals for the 96th Street station, she collaborated with Spanish tile masters, working from a blue and white palette originating in an essential component of construction: the blueprint. As the tiles descend into the station, Sze conveys a sense of swift motion expressed in swirls of paper, scaffolding, birds, and leaves. The murals, titled “Blueprint for a Landscape,” explore how things move in space, echoing the acceleration of the subway and the transitions into different environments that rapid travel enables. “Subways are one of the most democratic places you can find,” says Sze, and her design for the 96th Street subway celebrates the dynamism and egalitarian possibilities of transit. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre How can art inspire hope during wartime? How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Can a play speak for those betrayed by the American dream? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University