Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Giving Giving Search Home Ways to Give Giving Societies Beyond Brilliant Give Now Home Ways to Give Giving Societies Beyond Brilliant Give Now Breadcrumb Beyond Brilliant As America’s fastest rising university, UC Riverside is acclaimed for creating an academic environment and peer network that supports students like no other comparable campus in the nation. Beyond Brilliant, UC Riverside’s first fundraising initiative dedicated to student-focused priorities across the university, will create even more opportunities for Highlanders to shine. Let’s be brilliant together. With your help, we will raise $50 million over the next 5 years to expand need- and merit-based scholarships and fellowships to broaden access and ensure affordability to our world-class educational experience. And we’ll create additional resources, opportunities, and programs for students to shine brightly. With your philanthropic support of Beyond Brilliant, we can propel students into bright futures. SUPPORT UCR STUDENTS Impacts Expand Access and Opportunity Your support makes a UC Riverside education attainable for California’s best and brightest, helping students overcome obstacles as they seek admission and work toward degree completion. Increasing undergraduate student scholarships Increasing graduate student fellowships MAKE A GIFT Energize Learning and Discovery Your support empowers innovative teaching and learning strategies and funds the creation of inspiring spaces such as state-of-the-art labs and classrooms equipped with experiential technologies. Expanding undergraduate and graduate student internships and experiential learning Inspiring spaces and capital projects to enhance the student experience MAKE A GIFT Enhance Health, Well-being, and Sense of Belonging Your support funds the resources, centers, and programs that provide for students’ basic needs, nurture mental and physical wellness, and foster our culturally diverse campus community. Caring for students’ basic needs and improving health and well-being Enriching student groups and programs MAKE A GIFT Match Update The Trustee Student Support Match Challenge created a tremendous outpouring of support for UCR students since the launch of Beyond Brilliant on October 4, 2021. This match is now closed and we look forward to launching another match opportunity in the future. Thank you to all of our donors who participated to increase the impact for Highlanders! Generosity inspires generosity If you are interested in inspiring the next wave of philanthropic support for UCR students, please consider making a gift to bolster future matching efforts. Contact Nesha Crossman, Senior Executive Director of Individual Giving, at nesha.crossman@ucr.edu or (951) 235-6571 to learn more and discuss options. Articles, News, and Videos The people of UC Riverside – students, faculty, staff, alumni, and supporters – truly are beyond brilliant. Here are their stories… Status message There are no Feed Items to display at this time. We asked graduates what UC Riverside meant to them Watch the Video ›› "I didn’t know my own strength" Watch the Video ›› Chicanx/Latinx students on the rise at UC Riverside Watch the Video ›› Philanthropists Byron Pollitt ’73 and Teresa Pollitt ’74 Empowering Extraordinary Minds Watch the Video ›› Wally Bakare: Supporting African American Student Success at UCR Watch the Video ›› Joseph Sanberg: A Grandfather's Legacy Watch the Video ›› Cam Calkins: The Secret Ingredient is Love Watch the Video ›› Roger and Sheryl Hayes: A UCR Love Story Watch the Video ›› Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel