Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can visual metaphors deepen public understanding of the brain? The Future of Neuroscience Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Senses, a new graphic novel by Columbia postdoctoral researcher Matteo Farinella, follows Diane, a virtual-reality researcher, as she travels inside the brain. Amidst forests of neurons, she encounters characters, including notable scientists, who help her understand how the senses work. On her journey, she examines taste buds up close, learns how optical illusions trick the cells in our eyes, and why mountains at a distance always appear blue. The Senses is Farinella’s second graphic novel. His first, Neurocomic, written with a postdoc named Hana Ros, similarly brings the principles of neuroscience to life for nonscientists. In both, his early exposure to the Bonelli comics (the Italian equivalent of Marvel) growing up in Bologna and his later encounters with comics by R. Crumb and Daniel Clowes combine with his undergraduate work in biology and his Ph.D. research building computational models of brain cells. Farinella’s scholarship also focuses on how abstract ideas can be explained and expressed through metaphor. As one of Columbia’s Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience, Farinella is developing experiments to determine whether comics can help readers remember complex ideas. For his first experiment, he created a comic based on the work of Columbia researcher Kimberly Noble, who explores the effects of poverty on children’s brains. Ultimately, Farinella wants comics to be recognized as a legitimate form of science communication, introducing readers to essential concepts and sparking their curiosity to explore further. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Will a chip reverse blindness? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University