Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Open the Door Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Ways to Give Who Opened the Door for You? In celebration of the trailblazers, mentors, or biggest supporters in your life, you have the opportunity to honor someone who opened the door for you—personally or professionally—by making a gift in their name to a Columbia school, program, or cause that matters to you. Show your appreciation and create new opportunities for students, faculty, or researchers. Learn More Katie Day Benvenuto ’03CC, ’12BUS opened the door for me, a young, fellow women’s basketball alum, by giving me my first full-time job, mentoring me in that role, and inspiring me to follow her footsteps in getting my MBA. Roar, Lion, Roar! Lauren Dwyer ’11CC, ’16BUS Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Barnard and Columbia Professor Catharine Nepomnyashchy, who invited me to teach with her at the Harriman Institute. She supported my Master's thesis on how war-related trauma in Bosnia and Herzegovina undermines long-term democracy building efforts in the country. Tanya Domi ’07GSAS, Adjunct Faculty Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Mandy Hackett ’92BC opened the door for me by showing me incredible generosity and support at an early point in my career. As a fellow Columbian and theater-maker, Mandy has been a mentor, friend, and guide, and has fundamentally shaped me as a person. Elizabeth Kipp-Giusti ’12CC Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel In 1986, as I headed for a career in BigLaw, Gaele McLaughlin Barthold, a Philadelphia Deputy District Attorney, convinced me that a year in public service would be rewarding. After three decades as a government attorney, I am so grateful for her support, mentoring, and friendship all these years. Laurie Magid ’85LAW Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel View More Stories and Add Your Honoree Visit Site Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University