Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Ways to Give/Gifts of Securities Gifts of Securities When planning to make a gift of securities to Syracuse University, please notify Advancement Services by calling 315.443.1718 or emailing sudonors@syr.edu. Accordion Section Marketable Securities Gifts of publicly traded securities that have appreciated in value allow you to claim a charitable deduction for the full market value of the securities on the date the gift is made. You pay no capital gains tax on the appreciation. Closely Held Securities Gifts of stock in closely held corporations may result in substantial tax benefits in the form of charitable deductions and avoidance of capital gains taxes. Closely held securities can be especially attractive in funding charitable remainder trusts or charitable remainder lead trusts. Because special regulations apply to gifts of this kind, we encourage you to consult your tax adviser and the University’s development staff when considering such a gift. Electronic Stock Transfers via DTC When planning to make an Electronic Stock Transfer to Syracuse University, please notify Advancement Services by calling 315.443.1718 or emailing sudonors@syr.edu. Mutual Fund Transfer When planning to make a Mutual Fund Transfer to Syracuse University, please notify Advancement Services by calling 315.443.1718 or emailing sudonors@syr.edu. Physical Delivery and Transfer Date When planning to make a gift of securities to Syracuse University, please notify Advancement Services by calling 315.443.1718 or emailing sudonors@syr.edu. In This Section Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top