Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Columbia Justice Lab Receives $1.25M Grant from Arnold Ventures Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Columbia Justice Lab recently received a $1.25 million, three-year grant from Arnold Ventures to expand its program, EXiT: Executives Transforming Probation and Parole, launched in August 2019. EXiT is a network of over 60 current and former probation and parole executives committed to reducing the size and punitiveness of community supervision in the criminal justice system. “We are honored to have the support of Arnold Ventures to continue this critical work of transforming parole and probation systems,” said Vincent Schiraldi, co-director of the Columbia Justice Lab and a Senior Research Scientist at the Columbia School of Social Work. The Justice Lab, which is also co-directed by Bruce Western, Bryce Professor of Sociology and Social Justice, created EXiT to add the voices of probation and parole chiefs to calls for (1) reducing returns to incarceration of people under probation and parole supervision; (2) substantially reducing the number of people under probation and parole supervision; and (3) eliminating or curbing probation and parole fees. There are 4.4 million people on probation and parole in the US, roughly twice as many people as are incarcerated and more than a three-fold increase since 1980. “Mass supervision on probation and parole has quietly become a significant deprivation of liberty in its own right for those who are not entirely free, and a feeder system to mass incarceration,” said Schiraldi. “We are committed at the Justice Lab through EXiT to tackling this problem.” “Supervision is supposed to help guide people toward safe and successful lives, but in reality it often keeps them unnecessarily entangled with the criminal justice system,” said Amy Solomon, vice president of criminal justice at Arnold Ventures. “Our organization is proud to support the innovative work of the Justice Lab, shining a light on the hidden-in-plain-sight problem of mass supervision. We look forward to working with EXiT and its network of reform-minded probation and parole leaders.” Arnold Ventures is a philanthropy dedicated to tackling some of the most pressing problems in the United States. They work in four key issue areas: criminal justice, education, health, and public finance. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University