Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Bringing the best: who's the next Oscar? Just Societies General Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Columbia commitment to Just Societies begins on campuses with financial aid, helping deserving students come to campus regardless of ability to pay. Oscar Alvarez ’17GS, a scholarship recipient, is one example of the transformative impact of scholarships. Born in Colombia, Alvarez moved to Miami at age eight and became a professional soccer player after high school in Colombia. An injury forced him to shift his athletic ambitions and rethink his future, which brought him to Columbia with the Program of Academic Leadership and Service (PALS) scholarship. “The School of General Studies has been a perfect fit,” said Alvarez. “It’s an incredible community of non-traditional students connected to the entire University and the larger world.” At Columbia, Alvarez has supported political campaigns, joined world-renowned economist Joseph Stiglitz’s think tank about international development, and founded the Columbia Private Equity Group, a student-run organization that shares private equity investment and career insights. The PALS scholarship also asks recipients to serve others as this opportunity has served them. “I’ve mentored high school students so that one day they might be able to attend Columbia and have the same opportunities I was given,” said Alvarez. Support this Program Learn More Ideas and Impact How can law students support asylum seekers? Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? How can the Columbia Journalism Review help meet journalism's greatest challenges? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University