Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people Just Societies Business Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Each year 650,000 people are released from prison. Some 60% remain unemployed a year later, while most of those who are working have low-wage jobs. By helping employers see past the stigma of a criminal record to spot human potential, the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise at Columbia Business School is tackling the issue of re-entry for those who have served time. Together with a team of colleagues, Damon Phillips, the Lambert Family Professor of Social Enterprise and co-director of the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise, is finding novel ways for Columbia Business School to act as a facilitator between companies and formerly incarcerated individuals who are looking to build their careers despite barriers. As one step, the center is producing “The Outside,” a series of videos that highlights the narratives of formerly incarcerated people and their successful career paths and employment opportunities. In the episode featured below, Patricia McCray worked for the City of Tallahassee for 19 years after her release. McCray also started her own nonprofit, Butterfly Life Journeys, to help women like her make the transition from prison to life outside. Telling stories like these and building networks of potential employers, the Tamer Center for Social Enterprise forges new collaborations to create opportunity. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? Can a student once in prison support formerly incarcerated scholars like her? How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University