Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Rudy Behnia The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Assistant Professor of Neuroscience My commitment: Uncovering how our brain sees the world around us It’s hard to imagine a world where we can’t see motion, shapes, and color, where we can’t have a representation of the physical world in our heads. This representation does not happen automatically, since the brain has no direct connection with the outside world. I want to understand how we build these representations—how we encode sensory information within the brain. I focus on two aspects of vision: how we detect movement around us, and the way we distinguish distinct colors in the world around us. Working with fruit flies, I record the activity of neurons as they encounter visual stimuli such as flashes of light and moving bars. By identifying the sensory circuits that are activated, we can start to identify what each type of neuron is doing while vision is happening. Understanding vision will tell us a lot about how the rest of the brain works. Uncovering how nerve cells in the brain perform computations in the visual system also tells us how they can process information in general. Keep up with the Zuckerman Institute: @ZuckermanBrain Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University