Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A team of researchers led by Columbia cell biologists Karen Duff and Natura Myeku recently demonstrated that boosting the brain’s garbage disposal system holds potential for treating diseases like Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and Huntington’s. Brain cells must continually get rid of old proteins, breaking them down for recycling. In neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer’s, clumps of leftover proteins accumulate, hindering the cell’s ability to function. Duff and Myeku’s team conducted a series of experiments on mice genetically engineered to have Alzheimer’s-like symptoms, dosing them with the drug rolipram. The rolipram accelerated the breakdown and disposal of worn-out proteins, reducing protein buildup in the cell. After dosing, the mice’s memory immediately improved. “The change we witnessed in the mice was dramatic—they went from having almost no short-term memory to perfectly normal cognition,” said Duff. The team’s discovery suggests that other methods of accelerating the protein disposal process may also provide effective treatments for Alzheimer’s and related disorders, offering a new strategy in the fight against neurodegenerative conditions. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What can brain imaging reveal about the way teens learn? How can eating chocolate help you find your car keys? Will new ways of visualizing activity in the brain improve treatments for infants? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University