Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we translate climate science into agricultural policy? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel With more than 80 percent of land in Uruguay devoted to raising animals and growing crops, extreme weather changes are felt acutely in the country. Farmers’ crop yields can be devastated, leading more people to go hungry. To help farmers prepare for such weather shifts, Columbia's International Research Institute for Climate and Society (IRI) partnered with the Uruguayan government to create one of the most sophisticated agricultural information networks in the world. Uruguay’s new National Agricultural Information System, funded by the World Bank and developed with Uruguayan scientists, generates highly precise climate forecasts of temperature and rainfall patterns up to three months in advance. Predictions are told in terms anyone can understand. The information helps farmers plan for each season and the Uruguayan government make informed policy decisions. “You can spend your whole life producing great scientific information and publishing in prestigious journals. But it’s also exciting when you see that work being applied, that work really affecting how a country functions,” said Walter Baethgen, head of regional and sectoral research at IRI. Part of the Earth Institute and based at the University's Lamont-Doherty campus, IRI combines cutting-edge research with tools for real-world decision-making to meet challenges not only in agriculture but in areas like water supply and public health that are also impacted by climate. The Uruguay project is proof of concept for this approach, paving the way for IRI to adapt it to other countries. Across disciplines, IRI is turning climate science into service for society. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What is the Columbia commitment to climate response? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can climate scientists help the world better prepare for epidemics? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University