Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home All of Us Program Leaps Forward, Diversifying Precision Medicine Research Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel An ambitious national precision medicine effort—the All of Us Research Program—is on track to enroll at least one million people in the US. Shared data from the program promises to accelerate biomedical research and improve health. “The All of Us Research Program is an amazing opportunity to bring together the communities we serve and our research community to advance health,” said David Goldstein, director of the Institute for Genomic Medicine at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. As of August 2019, more than 170,000 people enrolled in the program, submitting their health data and DNA. More than 80% of participants belong to groups that are underrepresented in medical research. And New Yorkers make up a large portion of both the overall participant pool and its diversity. Goldstein, one of the All of Us principal investigators, discusses how the program will benefit New Yorkers—and what local researchers can gain from Columbia’s leadership in the country’s signature biomedical research effort. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Will genetic testing help older adults avoid hospitalization? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University