Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can data combat government corruption? Data and Society Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Corruption not only costs US taxpayers tens of billions of dollars each year, but also brews citizen distrust and disengagement. Corruption investigations rely on random spot-checks and tips from whistleblowers, which are inconsistent at best. But new advances in data-driven investigation can help watchdog agencies sniff out and expose corruption more quickly and accurately. A yearlong study, Taking a Byte Out of Corruption, was conducted by the Center for the Advancement of Public Integrity (CAPI) Data Analytics Working Group at Columbia Law School. The report details nine types of fraud that data can help investigators root out, from timecard manipulations to petty theft to corruption by elected officials at high levels. For each fraud, the report provides a data-driven solution. With corrupt inspectors, a database of incidences can spot outliers, such as inspectors giving an excessively high or low number of violations, or logging passing grades too soon after failures, which might indicate fraud. Logging and analyzing elected officials' donors, discretionary spending, and personal contacts can help identify corruption at high levels. Gabriel Kuris, deputy director of CAPI, said data as a corruption-fighting tool can create a permanent system of checks and balances, fixing systematic issues. “This is truly the first iteration of this,” Kuris said. “We really hope to improve it over time…And we'd like to partner with any government working on this stuff that wants to share their efforts with us.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University