About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give Campaign Impact What starts here changes the world The University of Texas at Austin is on the front lines of the future: sparking the imagination, driving discovery and transforming lives. See how UT students, faculty and programs are changing the world with support from the What Starts Here campaign. Campaign News Changing the Cancer Equation Engaging the Senses Kendra Scott Supports Future Women Business Leaders The Patton Challenge With a world-changing gift of $20 million and an inspired plan to raise even more money, Bobby and Sherri Patton have had an impact on lives, both on the Forty Acres and far beyond. Empowering Young Entrepreneurs Featured Video UT for Me Promo Copy: What starts here is only the beginning. In January 2020, The University of Texas at Austin and the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation launched UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars. It’s a world-changing $100 million investment to help UT students with significant financial need succeed. Watch Now Latest Stories Space to Explore Within UT’s Cockrell School of Engineering, students can venture into a variety of exciting projects. A Class Act College of Education graduate Laura Orozco Domínguez is ready to change lives in the classroom. Paying Dividends McCombs graduate Phil Canfield and wife Mary Beth support UT’s Canfield Business Honors Program with student scholarships, keeping enterprising minds on the Forty Acres. A Unique Approach to Brain Health UT is advancing knowledge on Alzheimer’s disease, stroke and other neurodegenerative conditions with the financial support of Jim and Miriam Mulva. A Place to Explore and Grow The Stengl Lost Pines Biological Station, named for donor Casey Stengl, is a living laboratory for students in UT’s College of Natural Sciences. Tito’s Invests in Student-Athletes giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback