Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Suzanne Goldberg Just Societies Law Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Executive vice president for University Life; Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law; and director, Center for Gender and Sexuality Law My commitment: Creating a campus community that enables all students to thrive Just over two years ago, President Bollinger asked me to create the Office of University Life to focus on our University as a community, with special attention to core Columbia values that support all students—and, indeed, all community members—in thriving during their time with us. From the first days in this role, I was struck by the many ways that issues of importance for students and faculty across Columbia’s many schools resonate with the great challenges and opportunities of our nation and world. Whether on issues of sexual respect, inclusion and diversity, mental health and wellness, or in other areas, we have a unique opportunity here. Columbia, after all, is the size of a small city. As we think about creating a world in which we can communicate more effectively across our differences, what could be better than working directly with Columbia’s own robustly pluralistic community to address longstanding societal challenges and to create and sustain a sense of belonging. Among our recent innovations, developed with students, faculty, and staff from across the University: Campus Conversations: Free Speech in Our Community; Post-Election Reflections; Race, Ethnicity and University Life. Columbia’s Sexual Respect and Community Citizenship Initiative: Asking all students to reflect on the link between sexual respect and membership in the University Community. Wellness Days @Columbia: Inviting all to come together to learn, support each other, and focus on mental health and wellness as essential to our University community. Awakening Our Democracy Series: Bringing together students, faculty, and staff to learn and discuss pressing issues of our time. Keep up with the Office of University Life: @ColumbiaULife Ideas and Impact Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University