Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Closing the alcohol gateway to cocaine The Future of Neuroscience Public Health Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Columbia researchers have shown that drinking alcohol can lead to cocaine use, resurrecting the “gateway” hypothesis of drug use that has fallen out of favor over recent decades. In a study with rats, scientists identified biological mechanisms, including long-lasting chemical changes, that underpin the transition from alcohol exposure to cocaine addiction. After the rats were given alcohol two hours a day for 11 days, they were then given access to cocaine over 32 days. This sequence—drinking alcohol before being exposed to cocaine—was shown to prime the brain for cocaine dependence. Researchers located mechanisms that turn genes on and off in the brain’s reward centers. As the rats drank alcohol, a “molecular brake pad” in these reward centers weakened, creating a "permissive environment" for addiction. “The findings demonstrate how an early exposure to a drug like alcohol can increase a person’s vulnerability to developing an addiction to cocaine and other drugs,” said Denise Kandel, one of the study’s authors and professor of sociomedical sciences (in psychiatry). The ability to identify a person’s risk factors as well as specific biological mechanisms for cocaine dependence holds promise for addiction prevention as well as medical interventions once someone has already become addicted. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? Will a chip reverse blindness? Can we locate cause and effect in the brain? How does faulty wiring in the brain contribute to depression? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University