Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Immersive art illuminates rising sea levels Arts and Ideas Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel To launch Year of Water, Columbia University decided to bring the sensation of waves from October 22 to 24 to the plaza of the Lenfest Center for the Arts. Dutch artist and innovator Daan Roosegaard created "Waterlicht," a site-specific, large-scale installation. The work features undulating, softly flowing light that fills the space like water. This immersive public art event sheds light on rising water levels caused by climate change. With projections using LED lights and special lenses, “Waterlicht” shows us how high the water could go if we don’t act. Through the art, viewers "experience the vulnerability and power of living with water," said Roosegaard. “I think we all know the numbers,” said Roosegaard. “But numbers won’t change us. Imagination will.” Throughout the next two semesters with the Year of Water, Columbia is focusing on this precious resource, with all parts of the University coming together to explore its full complexity, from the artistic to the scientific and social. Roosegaard’s work embodies this complexity—for him, “Waterlicht” is about nature, technology, people, and landscape trying to find a new harmony and sense of balance. Carol Becker, Dean of Columbia’s School of the Arts, sees the installation as a way of welcoming everyone in New York to Columbia’s exploration of water. With “Waterlicht,” she said, “We can say to everyone, come and participate…It’s our open house to the Year of Water.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can storytelling help AI be more human? Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? How do students bring a vintage synthesizer back its groove? Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University