Skip to Content (Press Enter) California State University, Fullerton Step 1 Make a Gift Step 2 About You Step 3 Payment * = required * Gift Amount: Amount is required. Value must be a currency. Amount is not valid. Payment Options: One-timeRecurringOngoing * Select a Giving Opportunity Titan Fund (University Greatest Needs) COVID-19 Relief Funds Browse List (Colleges, Programs, Scholarships) Colleges Programs & Scholarships Search Select a college -- Select -- College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education Dean’s Fund College of Engineering and Computer Sciences College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Please select a college. Select an area of support -- Select -- Greatest Needs Scholarship Academic Program Endowment Capital Centers Please select an area of support Give to Multiple Funds Comments 
 Additional Information: I would like to remain anonymous. I would like to make this gift in honor or in memory of someone. My company will match this gift Step 1 Make a Gift Step 2 About You Step 3 Payment Have you given to CSUF before? Yes No Please select an option. Step 1 Make a Gift Step 2 About You Step 3 Payment REVIEW Gift Information Your Information Click "Continue" and you will be taken to a secure payment page to enter your credit card information. Your browser doesn't support JavaScript or you have disabled JavaScript. You will Javacript in order to proceed with this web site. This site is maintained by University Advancement. To report problems or comments with this site, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF