Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home David Henry Hwang Arts and Ideas Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Playwright on Faculty at the School of the Arts My commitment: Writing beyond what I know I usually have some sort of question that I’m trying to answer for myself. Writing is a way for me to understand how I really feel about a matter, even in my subconscious, even beyond what I know. My probably best-known play, for example, is M Butterfly, and it’s based on the true story of a French diplomat who had a 20-year affair with a Chinese actress who turned out to be a spy and a man in drag. The diplomat claimed that he never knew that his lover was actually a man. And so there’s a very obvious question: how could the diplomat not have known? When things excite me and make me really curious, I want to write about them. Keep up with David Henry Wang: @DavidHenryHwang Ideas and Impact A new chapter for the arts at Columbia How can art inspire hope during wartime? Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre Can a play speak for those betrayed by the American dream? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University