Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Safwan M. Masri Global Solutions Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development My commitment: Working across borders, cultures, and disciplines to solve global problems Significant and unprecedented challenges are facing our global community—from climate change to refugee crises to strains on democratic systems of governance. These serious problems require us to work together—across borders, cultures, and continents—in new and inventive ways. Given the current state of the world, my commitment to helping Columbia University to working globally has never been stronger. Columbia Global Centers provide a physical and intellectual infrastructure around the world where scholars and practitioners can work together, across disciplines, to tackle issues of mutual interest or concern. From Amman to Rio de Janeiro, our faculty and students have engaged in important work that has both enriched their own scholarship and research, and resulted in real impact on the ground. With the vision for a Global Columbia, the opportunities for coupling deep knowledge with applied solutions are boundless. The global centers have always been motivated by the recognition that we do not know enough about the world, and that we need to be in it, and to learn from, and with, our partners on the ground. The environment we currently live in underscores the importance of engagement around the world through programming and research activities, and compels us to reinforce our global mission. Keep up with Columbia Global Centers: @globalcenters Ideas and Impact Can Columbia World Projects further mobilize Columbia’s strengths to solve problems? How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? Will long-form reporting shape our understanding of global issues? How can the Committee on Global Thought originate new ways of research and teaching about the 21st century world? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University