Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Just Societies Social Work Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel As a recent Columbia News article put it, you’re a young man of 15 leaving the house to see friends. The next moment, you’re kneeling on the sidewalk with police officers screaming at you, hands on their guns. You’ve been mistaken for somebody else. The world goes dark, and you hear your mother’s voice, “Just do what you have to do to get home alive.” This nightmare has become all too familiar in the age of Black Lives Matter. But it’s entirely different to experience such trauma first-hand. Courtney Cogburn, assistant professor at Columbia’s School of Social Work, studies the mental and psychosocial consequences of the stresses of racism. She found that many colleagues and friends—even those who speak ardently of social justice—were out of touch with the impact of racism on African Americans today. So she decided to find a way for others to walk in the shoes of an African American man. With a grant from the Brown Institute for Media Innovation, a bi-coastal institute located at Columbia Journalism School and Stanford Engineering, Cogburn and Jeremy Bailenson, a cognitive psychologist at Stanford, created a 12-minute virtual reality film, 1000 Cut Journey. The film immerses viewers in the life of a fictional African American man as he encounters racism as a child, adolescent, and adult. It debuted last April at Tribeca Immersive of the Tribeca Film Festival. “We wanted people to have a visceral sense of what this feels like,” she said. “It’s more likely to trigger empathy, and to help you understand the scope and nature of racism and racial inequality in our society.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University