Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Special Groups Special Groups Giving has different meanings for different groups of people. What they all share is a desire to make a difference–and the belief that Syracuse University has a vital role to play in making that impact a reality. Generation Orange For Generation Orange, alumni who have graduated in the past 10 years, it’s a way to give back to the university that’s prepared them to make their mark in the world. Reunion Classes For reunion classes, it’s a way to celebrate both their accomplishments and their milestones. Class Act For students, it’s a first step on what will most likely be a life’s journey of philanthropy. The 1870 Society Your planned gift to Syracuse University will have a strong and lasting impact on preserving the University's cherished past while securing its bright future. Lubin Society/Parents For parents, it’s a way to ensure that their sons and daughters–and all Syracuse University students–continue to experience all Syracuse University has to offer. The Hill Society As a member of The Hill Society, you will join an elite network of leadership annual donors who share a common goal of supporting Syracuse University’s highest priorities. Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top