Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Vishakha Desai Global Solutions International & Public Affairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Senior Advisor to the President for Global Affairs; Senior Research Scholar, School of International and Public Affairs; Member, Committee on Global Thought My commitment: Developing a global case for arts and culture for all From my professional start as an an educator and a scholar of Indian art, I became a museum director and ultimately the first female president of the Asia Society, an international educational organization, where I served for 22 years. Now, in my various Columbia roles, I am delighted to be a member of a University community committed to exploring issues of global significance. I continue to be excited about the role of arts and culture in creating a space for greater empathy and respect for divergent points of view. We live in a global community that is increasingly fractured, but forever linked. To find solutions to problems, we urgently need to develop greater understanding of our differences. Arts are uniquely positioned to illuminate contested ideas across cultural divides. Columbia University, especially through special initiatives of President Bollinger such as the Committee on Global Thought, has the capacity to make arts and culture integral parts of efforts to address issues affecting the world. I consider it a privilege to work with colleagues on campus and around the world to argue for the importance of arts in a global arena, not just for the privileged few, but for all, and as much for their capacity to delight as for their potential to connect beyond borders. Keep up with the Committee on Global Thought: @global_thoughts Ideas and Impact Can Columbia World Projects further mobilize Columbia’s strengths to solve problems? How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? Can door-to-door testing turn the tide of the AIDS epidemic? How can the Committee on Global Thought originate new ways of research and teaching about the 21st century world? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University