Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can a Wellness Center improve the health of Columbia's neighbors? The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A new Wellness Center in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center on the University’s Manhattanville campus helps bring care to neighboring communities. The Center, which opened in spring 2017, has support from the Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute and the Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC). CUIMC neurologist Olajide Williams and psychiatrist Sidney Hankerson are serving as directors. “I don’t think that we, as physicians, will be able to realize the type of outcomes that our local communities desperately need if we do not venture out of the four walls of our hospitals,” said Williams, chief of staff of neurology at CUIMC. The Center houses the Community Health Worker Stroke Prevention program to raise awareness of one of the leading US causes of death and disability. It also provides a home base for Mental Health First Aid, a program dedicated to improving access to quality mental health services in Upper Manhattan. On weekdays and select weekends, the Center administers blood pressure and cholesterol tests without charge to anyone who walks through its doors. “This is going to be an amazing opportunity for collaborations, for the development of new partnerships between scientists, between physicians, between psychologists, and, most importantly, members of the West Harlem community to really identify how we can provide the best care delivered in a culturally sensitive way, and how we can positively impact the lives of people in West Harlem,” said Hankerson. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will Googling help us think better? How can brain scans help treat and prevent PTSD? Can nanotechnology map the human brain? Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? See All Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University