Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home David Goldstein Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Professor of Genetics and Development; Director, Institute for Genomic Medicine My commitment: Developing the most precise treatment for each patient I started my PhD work in 1990, which was exactly when the Human Genome Project was being designed. Throughout my entire professional life, folks like me have been promising that we are going to transform medicine with genetics. And I resisted the idea—nobody wants to over-promise—but we’ve made so much progress, so much unforeseen progress even, that I cannot resist anymore. We really are on the precipice of changing medicine in so many ways—we can quickly and accurately identify all the changes in someone’s genome right now. Sometimes we’re looking for the change of a single letter, a single mutation, that’s responsible for your disease—and now we can do that. We can find it. And we can intervene—we can edit a precise genomic mutation that causes a disease in a mouse, for example, and study it as a model of a single patient’s precise disease. And we can create a targeted compound to fight the disease that that mutation causes. It’s already happening, especially in strongly genetic diseases such as epilepsy and others, and it's already proven as a model in cancer. It’s this kind of work, and the support for it across the University, that made me want to come to Columbia. And now we want not only to develop the science of precision medicine, but also to ensure that people can benefit from advances in precision medicine no matter who they are or where they live. Our commitment to precision medicine is truly extraordinary. Keep up with Columbia University Medical Center: @ColumbiaMed Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Can hair loss be reversed? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University