Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can brain science lead to more constructive drug policies? Just Societies Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Raised in an impoverished Miami neighborhood where drug use and crime were daily events, tenured neuroscientist Carl Hart studies the factors leading to the drug addictions he grew up seeing. While Hart once believed using neuroscience to end drug addiction could lower crime, his own data-driven conclusions decades later proved him—and many national drug policies—wrong. Hart found that, if drug users are given attractive alternatives like money or merchandise vouchers, many choose not narcotics but cash, suggesting drugs alone do not cause crime. A lack of appealing choices, like financial stability, is a deeper problem than drugs in poor, often black communities. Hart’s research asks us in making drug laws to heed the linked injustices of poverty, unemployment, and racial criminalization, listening to the findings of science. “People who look like me are often scapegoated more than others, and as a scientist who knows the facts about drugs, that’s very disturbing,” said Hart, who works to inform more equitable drug policies in challenging what we think we know about addiction. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University