Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home New insights into Alzheimer’s tangles The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Working with researchers from Mayo Clinic in Florida, scientists at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute have illuminated key processes that drive changes in the protein tau and produces brain diseases like Alzheimer’s. Anthony Fitzpatrick, Principal Investigator at the Zuckerman Institute, has identified specific changes in tau that can cause it to misfold in brain cells, creating dense tangles and clumps. To uncover the relationship between modifications in tau and its subsequent misbehavior, they used technologies that allowed them to see tau more clearly than ever before. Tau is tiny—10,000 times thinner than a human hair. In a new approach, Dr. Fitzpatrick and his team used cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to see each tau filament individually. Combined with mass spectrometry, cryo-EM gave them a complete picture of tau tangles in brain tissue from patients diagnosed with Alzheimer’s and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). They discovered that molecules called post-translation modifications (PTMs) residing on the surface of tau play a prominent part in the specific way tau-based brain disease manifests. The communications between PTMs helps shape the tau filaments, meaning that destructive tau tangles vary from disease to disease and from patient to patient. Understanding the role of PTMs in producing tau tangles will help fight complex brain illnesses. “Our findings will inspire new approaches for developing diagnostic tools and designing drugs, such as targeting PTM vulnerabilities to slow disease progression,” said Dr. Fitzpatrick. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can boosting the brain's garbage disposal system help us combat Alzheimer's? An atlas of the spinal cord seeks to combat disease Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University