Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Butler banner project honors women writers and visionaries Arts and Ideas Just Societies Columbia College Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Since Butler Library opened in 1934, eight names have loomed large on its façade: Homer, Herodotus, Sophocles, Plato, Aristotle, Demosthenes, Cicero, Vergil—all men. Now, Columbia students have transformed the front of Butler with a banner that places eight women front and center. The names of Maya Angelou, Gloria E. Anzaldúa, Diana Chang, Zora Neale Hurston, Toni Morrison, A. Revathi, Ntozake Shange, and Leslie Mormon Silko hang over the Morningside campus until December. The student organizers of the Butler Banner Project are paying homage to two previous attempts to diversify the names on the Library: one, in 1989, which was disrupted by campus security, and one in 1994, which hung during Women’s History Month. To honor the two earlier banners and mark the 100th anniversary of the Core Curriculum, founded in 1919, the Columbia Libraries asked Columbia students to organize a third banner to honor literary works by women. "We hope that this invites curiosity and inspires inquiry around the women who are on the banner, around questions about representation in the curriculum, and the way in which our collections support the curriculum and expand the notion of different voices," said Barbara A. Rockenbach, the associate university librarian for research & learning at Butler Library. Along with the banner, the fall semester features events, including a book club, speaker series, and a screening of The Pieces I Am, a documentary about Toni Morison, as well as an exhibit inside the library dedicated to the life and work of each of the featured women. "We read literature to understand the human experience, and hopefully, by reading the themes and experiences of these writers, students will begin to see all that is left out of the Western canon," said Radhika Mehta, a Columbia student and project co-lead. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Immersive art illuminates rising sea levels Can storytelling help AI be more human? Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University