Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Refugee children at a swimming lesson on the island of Lesbos on June 12, 2016. Photo Credit: Fahrinisa Oswald Just Societies Journalism Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Female migrants, nearly half of the global migrant population, encounter different risks from men, including gender discrimination and sexual exploitation. Many work in kitchens or nurseries, farms or brothels, places hidden from public sight with few protections. This unseen yet ubiquitous population is the subject of Columbia’s Global Migration Project, through which Graduate School of Journalism students write about the experiences of female migrants, from their lives in unofficial refugee camps in France to avoidance of child marriage in the US. Articles explore topics—whether US immigration law, border politics, or international refugee policy—through a gendered lens. The Project recently funded 16 reporting fellows following 32 stories, especially about Europe, the US, Central America, and the Middle East. The Project’s director, award-winning journalist and The New Yorker staff writer Sarah Stillman, has worked on a slate of tough pieces charting the human toll of systemic problems, including civil asset forfeiture and kidnapping of migrant children along the US-Mexico border, with long-form investigative reporting. “It’s wonderful that Columbia has been such a font of resources,” Stillman said. “They’re thinking about the self-care to let us sustain this work for decades. It’s really special.” Learn more. Related Podcast: The Lucky Few Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University