Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can filling in climate-data gaps lead to better crop yields and human health? Data and Society Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Understanding natural climate cycles can help predict everything from crop yield to water supplies to health hazards like malaria. But many African countries lack reliable climate records, making accurate weather forecasts a challenge. Columbia researchers are combining weather-station data in Africa with satellite measurements beamed from space to fill in these data gaps and improve predictions to combat drought, heat waves, and other extreme weather events. Tufa Dinku, research scientist at Columbia's International Research Institute for Climate and Society, is working with the Enhancing National Climate Services project (ENACTS) to integrate satellite data and climate model outputs with weather-station data from national meteorological services. ENACTS serves nine countries in Africa. Some of these countries have historical data but haven’t digitized yet or made it accessible beyond national meteorological agencies. Wars and civil conflict have also left large gaps in data records. The Rwandan genocide, for example, led to the loss of 15 years of data. The new datasets are publicly available through the IRI’s massive Data Library. The Library receives more than 3 million page views a year from users in dozens of countries. Its comprehensive data has allowed researchers to link rising temperatures in a country’s highlands to increased malaria risks. In Zambia, insurance companies have used this information to develop more accurate index-insurance policies to protect small farmers against drought-related crop losses. "I worked as a meteorologist in Ethiopia for more than ten years before coming to the United States," said Dinku. "I experienced the frustration of not having enough data or the right data to make the predictions that could help people. Being able to go back and contribute something of value to Ethiopia, my home country where we first launched ENACTS, gives me great satisfaction." Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University