Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we defend precious marine life? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Mesoamerican Reef stretches more than 600 miles, spanning the Yucatan Peninsula, Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras. It is home to more than 500 species of sea creatures, which are crucial both to biodiversity and for the local fishing and tourism industries. But this sea life is threatened by climate change, as temperatures rise and strengthening storms cause flooding and pollute water. Columbia climate scientists are helping these coastal communities defend this precious habitat. Columbia’s Earth Institute and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) are partnering along with local governments to analyze climate and ecosystem risks and recommend solutions. First, climate modeling will estimate future changes in ocean and sea surface temperatures, rainfall, sea level rise, and coastal flooding. Then workshops with local residents, community organizations, businesses, and government will examine the risks. Finally, the project teams will work with local stakeholders to design and implement adaptation strategies. Columbia’s researchers anticipate using a combination of vegetation, natural barriers, and new infrastructure to both guard low-lying areas from sea level rise and climate events, and promote ecotourism. For coastal areas that are quickly eroding and do not have suitable habitats for vegetation, new construction of sea walls may be the only remedy. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What is the Columbia commitment to climate response? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University