Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home DuBois Bowman Data and Society Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Cynthia and Robert Citrone-Roslyn and Leslie Goldstein Professor in Biostatistics; Chair of Department of Biostatistics at School of Public Health My commitment: Understanding and preventing the onset and progression of Parkinson’s disease As a biostatistician, my work focuses on Parkinson’s disease. There is a long period of neurodegeneration that occurs prior to the onset of symptoms, and those symptoms aren't necessarily unique to Parkinson’s disease, so there's an even further lag after the manifestation of the symptoms before diagnosis. Using biostatistical methods for brain imaging data, we can track a million data points reflecting an individual’s brain function and use it as a source to attack the problem. I am looking at how we can extract information that's clinically actionable. This effort relies, specifically, on having analytic tools to be able to mine the data, to detect the proverbial needle in a haystack. Our research hopes to shorten the path to diagnosis—to treat people before symptoms appear. Keep up with Columbia Public Health: @ColumbiaMSPH Ideas and Impact Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Can tracking teens’ tweets counter gang violence? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University