Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Gifts in Action Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Gifts in Action Every gift furthers Columbia's impact       Columbia’s Diabetes Center Receives $20 Million Gift from Mike and Maria Repole on Behalf of The Nonna’s Garden Foundation March 24, 2022 — The Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia University has received a $20 million gift from Mike and Maria Repole and The Nonna’s Garden Foundation, which was established in 2006 in honor of Mike’s Nonna (“nonna” means grandmother in Italian). The gift will help ensure that the Berrie Center has the financial support it needs to continue its work as a “one of a kind” family-centered resource for adults and children with diabetes.   Read More       Simmons Bequest to Fund Columbia Nursing’s First Full Tuition Clinical Scholarship March 15, 2022 — Columbia Nursing will soon launch its first-ever full-tuition Masters Direct Entry/Doctor of Nursing Practice scholarship, thanks to a $5.2 million gift from Richard Simmons in memory of his wife, Mary Bleecker Simmons, a Class of 1960 graduate.   Read More       An Investment in Nurturing Community on Our Campuses March 04, 2022 — Shirley and Walter Wang donate $10 million to enhance undergraduate interaction and social life and $1 million to connect Henry R. Kravis Hall and David Geffen Hall for Business School students.   Read More       Robert F. Smith ’94 Scholarship Fund to Support HBCU Graduates and Others Students applying to Columbia Business School will have access to a new scholarship fund in the 2022-23 academic year, thanks to a $10 million gift from Robert F. Smith ’94, founder, chairman, and CEO of Vista Equity Partners. The Robert F. Smith ’94 Scholarship Fund, which is expected to support approximately 200 MBA students through partial or full scholarships over the next ten years, will be awarded to enrolled CBS students who have graduated from HBCUs, overcome systemic hardships or challenges in their academic pursuits, or demonstrated a strong commitment to engaging diversity.   Read More       Introducing the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) Scholarship Established by a group of visionary alumni from across the University, the CAA Scholarship provides an opportunity for alumni to support students at every Columbia School. It will not only provide recipients with financial assistance but also tap into the CAA’s vast network of alumni to provide personalized mentorship to each CAA Scholar, augmenting and enhancing the support provided by their individual School. As a result, recipients will create lasting bonds while they are guided through their time at Columbia and the decisions they make about their careers.   Read More       Columbia Business School's New Manhattanville Campus Columbia Business School announced today that philanthropist and entertainment executive David Geffen has joined Henry R. Kravis and other benefactors to support its new facilities on Columbia University’s Manhattanville campus.   Read More       Columbia University and Pfizer to Establish Clinical Trials Diversity Initiative Columbia University Irving Medical Center, its Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, and Pfizer Inc. have established the Columbia-Pfizer Clinical Trials Diversity Initiative, with the aim of reducing health disparities by increasing the participation of underrepresented minorities in clinical trials and enhancing the diversity of clinical researchers. Pfizer will provide a three-year, $10 million grant to Columbia to help establish and expand the Initiative.   Read More       Columbia University Expands New York City Mapping Project Thanks to Major Grant from Gardiner Foundation Columbia University has been awarded a major grant from the Robert David Lion Gardiner Foundation to create an online, interactive atlas of historic New York City spanning the years 1820 to 1940. The project is a collaboration of Columbia’s History Department and the Center for Spatial Research in the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation (GSAPP).   Read More       New Doctoral Fellowships for Engineering Thought Leaders and Innovators in Data Science One of the early supporters of the University-wide Columbia Student Support Initiative, announced in April 2021 by President Bollinger, is Armen Avanessians ’83SEAS, chief investment officer of Quantitative Investment Strategies at Goldman Sachs. Avanessians recently conferred a $10 million dollar gift to Columbia for the Avanessians Doctoral Fellowships for Engineering Thought Leaders and Innovators in Data Science.   Read More       Zeynep Çelik Named Inaugural Sakıp Sabancı Visiting Professor July 1, 2021 — Dr. Zeynep Çelik has been named the inaugural Sakıp Sabancı Visiting Professor at the Sakıp Sabancı Center for Turkish Studies at Columbia University. Her deep expertise and unique historical perspective on the architecture and urbanism of the region will enhance the Sakıp Sabancı Center’s goals.   Read More       Columbia Establishes Dr. Kenneth and Kareitha Forde Professorship of African American and African Diaspora Studies May 19, 2021 — In recognition of the outstanding leadership and remarkable work of the late Dr. Kenneth A. Forde ’59VPS and his wife of sixty years, Kareitha “Kay” Forde, the Columbia Trustees established an endowed professorship in the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies. Renowned scholar Steven Gregory, Professor of Anthropology, will be its inaugural incumbent. This professorship will propel the new department forward at this crucial moment in race relations and Black identity.   Read More       New Support for Students in the Arts and Social Work April 20, 2021 — Columbia University has announced a gift from Louis Choy, MD, and Janice Chan-Choy to support students at the Columbia School of Social Work and Columbia University School of the Arts. One half of the gift will add to the existing Veronica Siu-Fun Pun Choy ’58 Scholarship at the School of Social Work. Named in honor of Dr. Choy’s mother, a distinguished alumna and one of Hong Kong’s social work trailblazers, the Choy Scholarship provides need-based support for MSW students.   Read More       With $16 Million Gift, Columbia Establishes Treatment Center and Clinical Trials Network for Lyme and Tick-Borne Diseases March 30, 2021 — A new center that will provide specialized care for patients with Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases will begin seeing patients this summer at Columbia University’s Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. The Cohen Center for Health and Recovery from Tick-Borne Diseases, supported by a $16 million gift from the Steven & Alexandra Cohen Foundation, will be the first in New York City to offer dedicated treatment for people with Lyme and related diseases.   Read More       Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute to Accelerate the Study of Brain Longevity with Gift from Israeli Philanthropist and Business Leader Sami Sagol March 24, 2021 — Columbia University announced today another major step forward in advancing neuroscience: the establishment of the Sagol Professorship of Brain Science and the Sagol Brain Longevity Program at the Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute. Nobel laureate, University Professor, and Zuckerman Institute co-director Eric Kandel has been named the inaugural Sagol Professor of Brain Science.   Read More       Racial Justice and Abolition Democracy Curriculum Project Established at Columbia University Columbia University will develop a model curriculum—“Racial Justice and Abolition Democracy”—to address racial inequality in the criminal justice system thanks to a $5 million, three-year grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. In partnership with community organizations and higher education institutions across the country, the upper-level curriculum seeks to redress the history of racialized punishment in the United States.   Read More       Chinese Legal Studies Center Named for Hong Yen Chang 1886, the First Chinese Lawyer in the U.S. A successful $5 million fundraising effort will endow the center in Chang’s name and bolster groundbreaking U.S.-China legal research and programming.   Read More       Gift From Davis Polk to Expand Legal Services in West Harlem Columbia Law School has announced a $500,000 grant from Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP to expand the Law School’s Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic. Students in the clinic provide free, transactional business law services to entrepreneurs, nonprofit organizations, and community groups in the neighborhoods surrounding Columbia.   Read More       Center for Global Journalism Established at Columbia Journalism School Columbia Journalism School has announced the creation of the Simon and June Li Center for Global Journalism which will prepare journalists to work, think and report globally.   Read More       Columbia Justice Lab Receives $1.25M Grant from Arnold Ventures The Columbia Justice Lab recently received a $1.25 million, three-year grant from Arnold Ventures to expand its program, EXiT: Executives Transforming Probation and Parole, launched in August 2019. EXiT is a network of over 60 current and former probation and parole executives committed to reducing the size and punitiveness of community supervision in the criminal justice system.   Read More       Columbia University School of the Arts Announces Solomon B. Hayden Fellowships to Support Diverse Voices in Art In partnership with Columbia University and two prominent New York galleries, artist Hugh Hayden ’18SOA helped found the Solomon B. Hayden Fellowships, forging a scholarship opportunity to attend Columbia University unlike any other.   Read More       Transformational Gift to Advance Research and Teaching in Chemistry July 28, 2020 — Today, Columbia University announced a $21.5 million gift from Dr. Ge Li ’94GSAS and Dr. Ning Zhao ’95GSAS to advance research and teaching in chemistry at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Columbia College, and the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. As one of the largest gifts to the sciences on the Morningside campus in University history, the couple’s donation will have a profound impact on the field of chemistry for generations to come.   Read More       Kellie Jones Named Inaugural Hans Hofmann Professor of Modern Art Columbia University has established the Hans Hofmann Professorship of Modern Art with a generous gift from the Renate, Hans and Maria Hofmann Trust. Globally renowned scholar Kellie Jones, Professor of Art History and Archaeology, will be its inaugural incumbent.   Read More Giving News April 1, 2022 Columbia’s Diabetes Center Receives $20 Million Gift from Mike and Maria Repole on Behalf of The Nonna’s Garden Foundation March 22, 2022 At the Forefront of Climate Response Guiding Conversation and Change March 16, 2022 Simmons Bequest to Fund Columbia Nursing’s First Full Tuition Clinical Scholarship March 8, 2022 An Investment in Nurturing Community on Our Campuses March 8, 2022 An Investment in Nurturing Community on Our Campuses March 7, 2022 Robert F. Smith ’94 Scholarship Fund to Support HBCU Graduates and Others See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University