Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? Each vertical slice represents one person’s mix of ancestral populations. Image Credit: Wai Hao Precision Medicine Data and Society Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Genetic data can help predict an individual’s likelihood of getting certain diseases. These predictions would rapidly advance treatment and prevention. However, the staggering amount of data from ancestral populations around the world can be difficult to analyze. A team of researchers led by Columbia computer science professor David Blei has developed a new machine-learning algorithm that can scan enormous quantities of genetic data randomly dispersed across populations. On simulated data sets of 10,000 people, the algorithm, dubbed TeraStructure, could estimate population structure twice as fast as current state-of-the-art algorithms. TeraStructure could analyze the genomes of one million individuals, well beyond modern software capabilities, and potentially characterize the structure of world-scale human populations. Through analyzing massive genetic data sets, these new algorithms can help identify disease-carrying mutations; by analyzing health records, they can help predict an individual’s survival. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Will editing genetic typos cure blindness? Can hair loss be reversed? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University