What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Join A Legacy Challenge Create an Impact Today and Tomorrow Here’s a powerful way for your single gift to make a greater impact. Several colleges and schools at The University of Texas at Austin have launched a planned giving Legacy Challenge. When you document a new future gift through your estate plan to a participating college/school, they will make an immediate donation (while funds last) to the department or program that you choose. It’s a bonus gift that costs you nothing! Find out more about each Legacy Challenge. UT Legacy Challenges College of Education College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences Jackson school of geosciences School of law Your gift will make an impact today and a lasting one in the future that will benefit countless students. And your gift will inspire others to change the world. Don’t see your college or school listed? You can still find out more about setting up a planned gift. Contact the Gift and Estate Planning team at 512-475-9632 (toll-free 800-687-4602) or giftplan@austin.utexas.edu. Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback