Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Peter B. de Menocal '92GSAS Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Dean of Science, Faculty of Arts and Sciences; Thomas Alva Edison/Con Edison Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences; Director, Center for Climate and Life at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory My commitment: Discovering how climate impacts life’s essentials Climate change goes back millions, even billions of years—and there’s no shortage of evidence that organisms large and small, from bacteria to mammoths, respond to climate. What is different today is that climate change is happening very quickly, and human populations rely on basic resources that are threatened as our climate shifts. At the Center for Climate and Life, my colleagues and I are mobilized. We want to understand how climate impacts the things that really matter to people—our access to food, water, shelter—and to come up with sustainable energy solutions. Columbia is in a unique position to lead this effort because the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory is home to the world’s largest and most distinguished community of Earth Science researchers. Through the Earth Institute, we partner with cross-campus leaders in law, policy, health, and business to lead change. Being in New York City connects us to global business and investment partners, so we can turn knowledge to action. The world faces urgent challenges in climate, human health, and technology innovation, and large research universities should lead the charge to provide answers. My goal is to help lead this charge for Columbia, to see us tackle such big global problems with resources, discipline, and purpose. Keep up with Peter de Menocal: @PdeMenocal Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can accurate rainfall data help farmers insure their land? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University