Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Student Support Student Support Create a Scholarship Now, more than ever, the next Orange generation is counting on us—and we are counting on them. During the 2019-20 academic year, approximately 80% of students received financial support, with the largest form of aid coming from more than $295 million in Syracuse University grants and scholarships. Yet only about 3.5% of that aid was funded through endowment gifts and other donor support. When you give to scholarship, you open doors for exceptional students from diverse backgrounds who aspire to be Orange. You can make a life-changing gift to support promising students by establishing a scholarship in your name—or in honor of a family member, mentor or friend. If you wish, your scholarship can be awarded to students in a school or college of your choice. By creating an endowed scholarship at Syracuse University, you establish a permanent scholarship in your name. The principal of your gift is managed to grow over time, and revenues from this fund are awarded as a scholarship in your name in perpetuity, benefitting students for generations to come. Alternatively, a current use scholarship is a powerful way to provide immediate support for students. The full value of your gift is awarded directly to students as a scholarship in your name over five years. If you wish, you will have the opportunity to renew or extend your scholarship. Syracuse University strives to keep donors informed about the impact of their gifts. We report annually on the financial status of endowed scholarship funds. For both endowed scholarships and current use scholarships, we report the names and majors of scholarship recipients, and encourage the scholars to send a message to donors about their Syracuse experience. You can also leave a scholarship through your will or estate. Syracuse University’s Office of Gift Planning is available to consult with you and your attorney or financial advisor to ensure that the name of your future scholarship and its intended use are documented with the University. For more information on establishing a named scholarship of any type, contact giving@syr.edu. Or, you can make a gift in any amount to an existing scholarship fund of your choice. Meet Inspiring Scholarship Donors and Recipients Meet Scholarship Donors Meet Scholarship Recipients In This Section Student Support Scholarship Donors Scholarship Recipients Give Now Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top