Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can we better visualize sea-level rise data? Climate Response The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The amount of data surrounding climate change can be daunting and difficult to parse. Columbia researchers have designed an app that makes sea-level rise data accessible and easier to understand. Polar Explorer: Sea Level pulls data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and NASA to create interactive maps that prompt the exploration of questions related to changing sea levels and climate vulnerability. The app is based around seven “big question” categories, including “What is sea level?” and “What are future predictions for the US coast?” Users can choose from a selection of map layers to visualize the effects of sea-level rise. For example, a user who wants to know where sea level is changing right now can choose to display a map showing tide stations around the world, regional trends in sea level, or regions vulnerable to future coastal flooding. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? Can studying climate change help predict civil unrest? Can we design more efficient solar cells? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University