What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Your gift unlocks student potential, supports world-class faculty, transforms health and care, and creates a vibrant future for us all. Join the Campaign WHAT STARTS HERE CHANGES THE WORLD WHAT STARTS HERE STARTS WITH YOU The University of Texas at Austin is on the front lines of the future: sparking the imagination, driving discovery and transforming lives. And it’s only possible because generous supporters like you believe in the power and promise of our state’s flagship university to change the world. Learn more about Our Priorities Together, we will attract incredible people, amplify the unmatched potential of our unique place in Austin and Texas, and dedicate ourselves to transformative pursuits. Join us by investing in a bold vision for the future of our university, focused on four major goals: Explore Impact Our Priorities Together, we will attract incredible people, amplify the unmatched potential of our unique place in Austin and Texas, and dedicate ourselves to transformative pursuits. Join us by investing in a bold vision for the future of our university, focused on four major goals: Explore Impact Unlocking Student Potential Your generosity helps students on the Forty Acres realize their greatest potential and become the leaders, pioneers and world-changers of tomorrow. Recruiting and Retaining Faculty Faculty and graduate students drive UT’s teaching, scholarship, creativity and discovery. Your support helps attract and retain world-class talent. Transforming Health and Care UT is leading a complete revolution in health and health care across every discipline. Your investment will help us mobilize the entire campus as a hub for innovation. Creating a Vibrant Future Your generosity will fuel the future for Texas and the world, spur economic prosperity, and drive innovation in areas that impact us all. 
 Serving the state-white
 It Starts With You Give Now Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback