Skip to content University Advancement Donor Login Contact About Us Home Contact Us Principled Philanthropy With You, We Will Give to CSU Ways to Give Explore Your Passions Explore Colleges Support Scholarships Crowdfunding Planned Giving Connect Stories of Impact Donor Communities Women and Philanthropy Inside Philanthropy at CSU Corporations and Foundations Give Now Search for: Search University Advancement Give Now Menu Change the world With you, we will Learn more Your browser does not support the video tag. Please upgrade your browser. More than 1,000 Gifts Show What’s Possible on the Day of Giving With more than 1,000 gifts made to 170 different funds, Ram pride was on full display during the Day of Giving May 5. In just one day, Rams around the U.S. and even the globe raised more than $137,000 for programs, causes, and student support initiatives. At more than $23,000, Rams Against Hunger received the most money and showed how Rams always take care of Rams. Other highlights include $8,780 to Inclusive Excellence funds, 193 new donors, and over 900 gifts ranging from $10-$150, which truly shows the power of collective giving. Thank you to everyone who participated. If you missed the official Day of Giving, it’s not too late to support your passions. Click below to view featured funds and to give. GIVE NOW The Power of Philanthropy Tinbergs hope to ignite passion with $1 million gift furthering ‘business for a better world’ education May 17, 2022 Rich Tinberg, a ’72 CSU alum, is igniting the passion of future leaders who know that business is about more than just the bottom line. New Nutrien building shows the future of agriculture lives here May 4, 2022 For more than 150 years, the future of agriculture has been cultivated at Colorado State University. With the opening of the Nutrien Agricultural Sciences Building, that future now has more space and resources to grow and thrive. Walter Scott’s foundation expands Scott Scholars Program November 16, 2021 Earlier this year – in what would prove to be one of his final acts with CSU – Scott chose to expand the existing Scott Scholars Program for Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering undergraduate students, committing through his foundation an additional $11.4 million toward the program over the next 10 years. More Impact Stories Explore Your Passions Select a passion to learn more. Traditions Featured Fund: Support CAM the Ram Help preserve the traditions that unite us as Aggies and Rams, that tie past to present, and root us in the mission of our land grant university. Support Traditions Student Success Featured Fund: First Generation Program For many deserving students, a college degree is unattainable without generous support from individuals, companies, and foundations. There is no greater gift to students, and our world, than for students to have the opportunity to achieve their academic dreams. Support Student Success Animal Care Featured Fund: One Cure Your support will transform the lives of people who aspire to do nothing less than save lives, cure cancer, eliminate malaria, feed the world, and prepare the next generation of veterinarians, doctors, and scientists. Support Animal Care Athletics Featured Fund: Athletic Scholarship Fund Whether it’s in a game or in the classroom, CSU’s student athletes are driven to win. Your support for these exceptional students gives them the necessary resources to thrive in all areas of their lives, and the lives they touch. Support Athletics Arts & Culture Featured Fund: University Center for the Arts Creating a more humane, liveable, and sustainable world is as fundamental to CSU as our land-grant mission. Your support helps ensure that our next generation leaders are lifting the human spirit. Support Arts & Culture Sustainability Featured Fund: CSU Energy Institute The health of our environment determines the health of our future. Your support ensures that CSU continues to bring innovation and excellence as we develop our next generation sustainability leaders. Support Sustainability Health & Wellness Featured Fund: Health and Human Sciences Enrichment From mental health, to healthy aging to overall health and well-being, your support means our CSU is growing leaders who can optimize the positive development of people and communities. Support Health & Wellness Global Innovations Featured Fund: Support Research at CSU CSU cares for our community, Colorado, and the world by proudly advancing the discovery and creation of knowledge. Your support strengthens our ablity to deliver Carnegie R1 research that benefits the global community across a broad range of disciplines. Support Global Innovations “It is always inspirational and comforting to know that there are people who are willing to support me and help me succeed in my college career.” -Ram Aid Recipient Fernando Montelongo “The impact our donors have in changing the trajectory of someone’s life is immeasurable.” -Kim Tobin, Vice President of University Advancement Connect Get Involved See Your Impact Location University Advancement Loren Crabtree Hall 2243 Centre Ave. Fort Collins, CO 80523 Contact Us donorrelations@colostate.edu (970) 491-7774 Resources CSU Alumni Association CSU Foundation Advancement Careers at CSU Digital Engagement Center Donor FAQ Presidential Ambassadors Accessibility Equal Opportunity Disclaimer Privacy Search CSU © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA