Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Forever Orange Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University When we launched Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University, it coincided with our sesquicentennial, celebrating 150 years of impact. No one could have imagined that a few short months later we’d be confronted with a pandemic that would launch a campuswide virtual instruction initiative. Yet our community adapted, determined to provide students with a redefined Orange experience and committed to making that experience extraordinary. This comprehensive campaign to raise $1.5 billion in private philanthropy from Syracuse alumni, parents, corporate partners, and friends, will further advance academic excellence, provide an unparalleled student experience, and create unique learning opportunities that leverage Syracuse University’s distinctive strengths. We hope you will join thousands of others in the Orange family who stand behind, walk beside and lift up deserving and dedicated students. For them. For all of us. Forever Orange. View the campaign overview [PDF] that appeared in Syracuse University magazine, and learn more about our priorities. Academic Excellence We advance breakthrough research, breakout thinkers and creative risk-takers. An Unsurpassed Student Experience We connect exploration and action for all our students, because Syracuse University isn’t a step before the “real world”—it’s where they start to shape it. Unique Learning Opportunities We embrace a proud tradition of welcoming and empowering new learners and leaders. Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top