Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will a fellowship for students from Historically Black Colleges help diversify business? Just Societies Professional Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Search top executives at Fortune 500 companies, and you’ll see mostly white men. The US workforce lacks racial and gender diversity, and countless studies confirm racial and gender biases as well as structural inequalities shut doors, especially to African Americans. Jason Wingard, professor and dean of Columbia’s School of Professional Studies (SPS), is addressing this problem head-on. This summer, SPS launched a $100,000 fellowship program to support two students from each of the top 10 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) as ranked in The Wall Street Journal. The fellowship aims to connect talented, underrepresented graduates with Fortune 500 companies eager to employ them. Students earn a one-year master’s degree at SPS from their choice of 40 programs of study. “As an African-American male myself, it’s disheartening to hear corporations say we can’t find qualified African Americans to come and work at our companies,” Wingard said. “The problem becomes either those companies don’t know where to look, or when they do know where to look, they’re not able to articulate why they are interested in this particular population and how they are adjusting their cultures to be responsive to the employees’ needs.” The SPS fellowship program will start small, yet Wingard hopes to expand it to more African Americans in improving racial diversity in the workforce. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University