Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Peter Bearman Data and Society Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Jonathan R. Cole Professor of Social Science; Director, Interdisciplinary Center for Innovative Theories and Empirics; Co-Director, Health & Society Scholars Program My commitment: Harnessing the power of data to see and solve problems in new ways Big data transforms how we see and solve problems on a scale equivalent to the introduction of the microscope 500 years ago. For the first time in history, the scale and the diversity and the granularity of data that we have is actually beginning to be commensurate to the complexity of the social problems that confront us. My work spans investigating the social determinants of the autism epidemic, working on understanding the dynamics of lynching in the Deep South, tracking violence in Northern Ireland, and identifying the neural signatures of social relations. We look at innovative ways to build data structures that can provide the foundation for robust, substantive, and empirically grounded insights to solve substantive problems. Big data is a way of thinking about how we answer fundamental questions about all the problems that confront us, or ask them in a different way. This is the promise of big data. Keep up with the Department of Sociology: @columbiasoc Ideas and Impact Can tracking teens’ tweets counter gang violence? How can machine learning help us hear cries for help? What can policy students learn from data analysis? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University