Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Extraordinary Opportunity Your support unlocks untold opportunities for dynamic students from across North Carolina and around the world. A Beacon for Brilliant Students Our commitment? It’s that every keen and curious mind has access to a superior education that transforms learning into contribution and hands-on experience into immediate, lasting results for a global society. Private support provides extraordinary opportunity for North Carolinians while helping us attract the best and brightest to our state. Private support spurs students to think and do the extraordinary. NC State is a premier center for undergraduate and graduate education, known globally for innovative degree programs that address real-world challenges. For more than a century, promising students have come here to pursue — and discover — their passions and dreams. We’re working to expand fellowships and our merit scholarship offerings, such as the Park Scholarships program, that bring the nation’s best students to NC State. We’re also building alternative admission pathways like the Community College Collaboration (C3) initiative and STEAM (Student Transfer Enrollment Advising and Mentoring). We’re the largest university in the University of North Carolina system, and we graduate more North Carolinians than any other. Our student body comes from all 100 North Carolina counties, all 50 states and more than 120 countries. Student success is central to everything we do, and no priority is more important than extending educational opportunities to scholars from a wide spectrum of backgrounds. Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative Our Promise of Access Learn more about how we’re keeping our promise of access through the Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative. Continue reading Every qualified student deserves an extraordinary opportunity. However, cost is a major consideration for students and their families. It’s one of the leading reasons students leave the university before completing their degrees — or never enroll in the first place. More than 70% of our undergraduates apply for financial aid. Roughly half of our undergrads qualify for some kind of need-based aid, under federal guidelines. Through the Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship Initiative, we can close these gaps and better recruit and retain tomorrow’s leaders: the exemplary scholars who will someday discover life-saving treatments, transform society and educate future generations. Financial barriers should never halt or slow academic inquiry, energy or drive. Private support is the vote of confidence that spurs a diverse community of students to unlock their potential and make the most of their extraordinary opportunity at NC State. Meeting Our Students’ Needs We’re committed to ensuring that every promising scholar who wants to come to NC State can do so. However, we can’t stop at enrollment; we must also make sure that once our students are on campus, we remove barriers and challenges to their success. NC State continues to invest in developing and promoting initiatives to combat food and housing insecurity on campus and finding solutions for students who are one emergency away from having to leave school. Private support is changing how we can respond to student needs — because no member of the Pack should be left behind. Read more about ways you can make a difference for underresourced students below, or make a gift now. Making a Difference Extraordinary Opportunity: Rachel Cherry Support from the Extraordinary Opportunity Scholarship motivated Rachel Cherry ’22 to work even harder. Learn more Supporting Students Partnering to Combat Student Housing Insecurity The Wolfpack community is responding to housing insecurity through projects like the Host Homes Program and a partnership with College of Design professor Tom Barrie. Learn more Meeting Student Need PACK Meal Plan Scholarships Pack Meal Scholarships are full and partial grants available to students experiencing difficulty in paying for a semesterlong meal plan. Learn more about meal plan scholarships 2,530 visits to the Feed the Pack Food Pantry from January through September 2019 — about one-third of the total visits logged in the seven prior years combined. Learn more about the origins of the food pantry and its student leaders Meeting Student Need Student Emergency Fund From leaving an unsafe living situation to dealing with unexpected health costs, the Student Emergency Fund helps the Pack not just get by, but thrive. Learn how donor support helps the fund make a life-changing difference At NC State, there is an abundance of resources, intellectual and human capital, and a ‘Think and Do’ attitude. There’s no reason any student on this campus should be hungry or without a safe and stable home. We can prevent hunger and homelessness. Mary Haskett, NC State researcher and psychology professor Learn more about Mary Haskett's research into food and housing insecurity at NC State Making a Difference Extraordinary Opportunity: Will Gibson A new type of scholarship enabled Will Gibson to become the latest member of his family to join the Pack. Learn more Impact From Grief to Hope The family of Steven Somers has established an endowment to support the Counseling Center, which was instrumental in his journey as a student. Read more As we became familiar with the Student Emergency Fund and the way it was helping students deal with these types of real-life situations, we wanted to get involved. Ghazale Johnston '96, COO of Daymaker Giving and member of the NC State University Foundation Board Learn more about Johnston's commitment Giving Back A Meal and a Night Out Richard “Gus” Gusler, owner of the Players Retreat restaurant, is donating gift cards so that food insecure students can participate in social activities. Learn more about Players Retreat's involvement Meeting Student Need Students Step Up Through Pack Meal Share The Pack Meal Share program empowers students to donate meals from their meal plans to help peers who find themselves temporarily without food options. Learn more $924,871 raised to support more than 1,000 students impacted by the effects of the coronavirus, as of April 7, 2020. Strengthened by alumni and friends, the Student Emergency Fund is a vital resource in the face of unexpected crises. Learn more Extraordinary Opportunity Beyond the Belltower This podcast produced by NC State's TRIO programs features current students and alumni sharing personal stories 'relevant to the first-generation, low-income college student experience.' Hear their stories These students have all worked very hard and done a lot right just to be at NC State. They have already proven themselves. To me, these students represent the heart and soul of NC State. Think about it. NC State was founded by hard working folks struggling to make a better life. Steve Deaton '79, founder, Deaton Investment Real Estate, and donor to efforts supporting student need Give now to support our students Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.