What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Partnerships with corporations Call us 512-232-1391 Email us corporaterelations@austin.utexas.edu Engage With Us Plan a visit Call us 512-232-1391 Email us corporaterelations@austin.utexas.edu Engage With Us Plan a visit. The front door for corporate partners of UT Our Corporate Relations team is here to help your company develop connections and build partnerships with UT’s students, faculty and research units. We specialize in identifying opportunities and offering support to meet your recruitment, research, engagement and philanthropic objectives. Meet the Team Kelsey Evans Executive Director Corporate Relations Beth Beagles Director of Development Energy, Oil and Gas Ahsan Choudary Director of Development Biotech and Health Care Sylvia DuRant Director of Development Media, User Experience and Hospitality Ana Navarro Ovitt Director of Development Finance, Insurance and Retail Crystal Aguilar-Marshall Development Specialist Ella Prewitt Development Associate Recruitment The Corporate Relations team can connect you with 51,000 students across UT’s 18 top-ranked colleges and schools. We can help you navigate opportunities for student engagement including academic competitions, freshman research streams, guest speaker visits and career fairs. Research UT is a global research powerhouse housing more than 3,000 dedicated researchers. Let us help you navigate partnership opportunities including undergraduate research, capstone projects, faculty research, industry affiliate programs and sponsored research. Sponsorships Your company has made a commitment to corporate citizenship that touches lives around the world. Together, let’s map strategic investments that can showcase your brand and align with your vision for impact. Campus Visits Come to the Forty Acres to meet the faculty and students who will drive your business. The Corporate Relations team can craft your custom visit. Let us know your goals and objectives, and we will connect you with the the right minds to deepen our partnership. Helpful Links RecruitUT Office of Industry Engagement Office of Technology Commercialization UT Austin Strategic Plan Protect Texas Together Entrepreneurship & Innovation at UT UT’s Statewide Impact Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback