Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Twitter Facebook LinkedIn The Columbia Commitment The Columbia Commitment, a five-year campaign launched in 2016, focused on ideas, impact, and the power of interdisciplinary thinking and partnerships to solve critical problems in the world. Our Columbia community emerged from the campaign transformed in our ability to think and act both in and with the world. Lee C. Bollinger President, Columbia University If you played a role over the past five years, we thank you and celebrate what you have made possible. As always, the true measure of what you have done will show in what our students and faculty can now do, working together to create a future that is built on a profound respect for free inquiry, on knowledge and on the public spiritedness that defines the life of the mind. That remains our Columbia commitment. The Columbia Community Making This Possible The Power of Our Commitments Shawn "JAY-Z" Carter Lecture Series Brings New Perspectives from the Arts and Beyond Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies Global Study Launches on Mental Health of Frontline Healthcare Workers Learn more COVID-19 Recovery Law School Alumni and Friends Meet Jerome Greene Foundation Challenge to Endow 50 New Scholarships Learn more News Transformational Gift to Advance Research and Teaching in Chemistry Learn more New Doctoral Fellowships for Engineering Thought Leaders and Innovators in Data Science Learn more News Columbia Business School's New Manhattanville Campus Learn more News Medical Students Graduate Debt-Free Learn more News At the Forefront of Climate Response Guiding Conversation and Change Learn more News Our Students. Our Future. As we celebrate and further the critical work in the Columbia Commitment areas of impact in the months ahead, we also raise our sights and renew our priority to support students through financial aid and scholarships. A Columbia education is transformative and financial need should not be a barrier to accessing it. We look forward to again coming together as a University community to make a collective impact through the new Columbia Student Support Initiative. Thank You We want to extend our heartfelt gratitude and admiration to our community for exceeding our Columbia Commitment goals. This campaign was incredibly bold: the scale, the speed, and the impact. To have achieved what we did is nothing short of remarkable. What made the Columbia Commitment special was not just the level of ambition, but that it was centered around pillars of thoughts—about intellectual pursuits, social justice, and how we live and learn as a Columbia community. Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University