Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Our Commitment To Just Societies Why? The Challenge Our Commitment What is justice? In the Core Curriculum, Columbia’s undergraduates read Plato’s Republic and other works to explore their own timely answers to that timeless question. Across our campuses, we think and act together to define and live up to our highest ideals as a society. While recent decades have seen progress, injustice persists in stark forms. The prosperity, access, and comfort of some highlight the need, isolation, and uprootedness of others, and, in spite of the interconnections of our age, the gap between haves and have-nots is more pronounced than ever. How are people’s chances diminished because of their race, gender, religion, or economic background? Whose voices are heard? How are resources shared? What steps can be taken to expand the public good? These are issues that concern us all, around the world, as people bound to one another. Our commitment to Just Societies renews and emboldens efforts to build an equitable, inclusive world through research, teaching, and civic engagement, and the nature of our campus community itself. We have only begun to understand the dynamics of contemporary privilege and inequality. Poverty is one glaring example. In the US, the top 0.1 percent of the population earns on average roughly 184 times more than the bottom 90 percent. Globally, the gap is starker: cumulatively, some 85 of the wealthiest people are worth more than the poorest 3.5 billion people. How do we make sure all people have enough food to eat and water to drink? How can each person thrive on her own terms and regardless of circumstance? At Columbia, we must bring our most advanced thinking and most sophisticated methods to bear on achieving greater justice. As we do, we learn from and with the world, avoiding the arrogance of the outside expert by working with partners who understand injustice—and what can remedy it—firsthand. Social justice appears as a focus for faculty and students in every school across our campuses, from the education of veterans in our School of General Studies to environmental justice programs under the Climate School. Transformative initiatives include a ten-year Atlantic Philanthropies partnership supporting activists and scholars aimed at ending anti-black racism. The commitment to just societies spans our law school as well as specific institutes and departments, from the Center for Justice and the Justice Lab, to the Knight First Amendment Institute to the Ira A. Lipman Center For Journalism and Civil and Human Rights to the the African American and African Diaspora Studies Department, founded in 2018. As never before, we are working together and with philanthropic partners to harness resources that shape thinking, models, and practical solutions for a more equitable university community and a more just world. When you look at what distinguishes Columbia from its peers, one clear dimension is the critical mass of faculty and students working in this area of just societies. It is truly remarkable. Farah Jasmine Griffin and Bernard E. Harcourt Just Societies Faculty Task Force co-chairs Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Join Us Columbia students, faculty, and alumni are building a more equitable and inclusive world. Engage Ideas and Impact Columbia’s Freedom & Citizenship Program helps NYC high schoolers find new possibilities Learn more Just Societies Can mapping hunger in New York City help people in poverty? Learn more Just Societies Butler banner project honors women writers and visionaries Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies Can virtual reality experiences of racism build empathy? Learn more Just Societies Helping employers see the potential of formerly incarcerated people Learn more Just Societies Students Inspire MTV's Spotlight on Maternal Mortality Learn more Just Societies Can students inform NYC's urban agriculture policies? Learn more Just Societies Climate Response How did a law class help a student overcome the travel ban? Learn more Just Societies Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Learn more Arts and Ideas Just Societies How is a catering company giving refugees a fresh start? Learn more Just Societies Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? Learn more Just Societies Can a student once in prison support formerly incarcerated scholars like her? Learn more Just Societies Helping veterans transition from combat to classroom Learn more Just Societies How can teaching Plato in prisons teach us what justice is? Learn more Just Societies Will pro bono work engage law students in public service? Learn more Just Societies How can an online course expand knowledge of women's history? Learn more Just Societies Will documenting human rights conditions help LGBT asylum seekers? Learn more Just Societies How can a university help safeguard freedom of speech? Learn more Global Solutions Can understanding Columbia’s ties to slavery spur justice today? Learn more Just Societies Can telling the stories of women and girls make crossing borders safer? Learn more Just Societies How can we bring together change-makers in the US and South Africa to end racism? Learn more Just Societies Will studying lead poisoning in Flint further environmental justice? Learn more Just Societies How can law students support asylum seekers? Learn more Just Societies How can the Columbia Journalism Review help meet journalism's greatest challenges? Learn more Just Societies Bringing the best: who's the next Oscar? Learn more Just Societies See All Key Facts Make a Gift 28,300 People a day are forced to leave their homes due to persecution and conflict 1 in 4 Of the world's prisoners are in the US 0.1 Percent of the US population earns over 184 times more than the bottom 90 percent Across Our Campuses How can image-based blogging defeat Internet censorship? Learn more Just Societies Can brain science lead to more constructive drug policies? Learn more Just Societies Where are Hispanics in US media? Learn more Just Societies Will understanding inequality’s price lead to alternatives? Learn more Just Societies Will a course inspire student philanthropy? Learn more Just Societies Will a fellowship for students from Historically Black Colleges help diversify business? Learn more Just Societies See All | School Directory Geraldine Downey Professor of Psychology, Director, Center for Justice My commitment: contributing to criminal justice reform When I finished my BS in Dublin, I was working on a project with kids on probation. I became interested in why some kids became violent as adolescents, which led me to look at families and communities.. Read More Jelani Cobb Professor of Journalism My commitment: writing another’s humanity When I started at The New Yorker, I didn’t set out to write about Trayvon Martin, Jordan Davis, Charleston, Ferguson, Baltimore, Eric Garner, but those were the topics that had to be discussed.. Read More Rachel Adams Professor of English and comparative literature My commitment: furthering understandings of disability From the beginning of my career as a scholar, I’ve had an interest in the history and culture of disability. When my second child was born, and I learned that he had Down syndrome, I had to think about how to bring together my academic commitments with my new role as a parent and an advocate.. Read More Suzanne Goldberg Executive vice president for University life; Herbert and Doris Wechsler Clinical Professor of Law; Director, Center for Gender and Sexuality Law My commitment: Creating a campus community that enables all students to thrive Just over two years ago, President Bollinger asked me to create the Office of University Life to focus on our University as a community, with special attention to core Columbia values that support all students—and, indeed, all community members—in thriving during their time with us. Read More Make Your Commitment to Just Societies Give Now Go Deeper Key Related Sites Social Sciences Law School Center for Justice Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Stay Informed about Columbia's Commitment to Just Societies Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University