Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How will global experiences shape students’ lives and careers? Global Solutions Columbia College Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Presidential Global Fellowship, funded with a seed grant from Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger, provides selected rising sophomores in Columbia College, Columbia Engineering, and the School of General Studies funds to study at one of Columbia’s eight Global Centers. In the summer of 2016, as one of 17 Presidential Global Fellows, Elise Gout '19CC studied in the SEE-U Jordan program, a partnership between the Earth Institute Center for Environmental Sustainability and the Columbia Global Centers | Middle East. SEE-U Jordan uses current issues in Jordanian resource management to explore connections between science and sustainable development, teaching students the fundamentals of ecology, evolutionary biology, environmental science, taxonomy, and experimental design. The fellowship provided Gout not only a chance to pursue real-world applications of her area of study, but also a deep connection to the country and other students who shared the experience. “Every day here, I learned something that forced me to reevaluate—my opinions, my actions, my intentions,” Gout said. “The potential for personal growth is far greater, it would seem to me, the less comfortable you are.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University