Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Could a hearing aid read minds to filter out the noise? The Future of Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel People who are hearing impaired often have difficulty in noisy environments like restaurants or parties, where picking out one voice from the crowd is key. Current hearing aids can filter out background noise, but cannot separate one conversation from many. Now, Columbia researchers at the Zuckerman Institute are designing a hearing aid that can focus in on a single conversation. Nima Mesgarani, an associate professor of electrical engineering, and his team have developed a system that relies both on a new type of microphone and on the brain’s own ability to filter what it hears. The microphone receives auditory input and uses deep neural network models, a form of artificial intelligence, to separate speakers from a mixture of voices. Then, the device compares these separated speakers to the listener’s neural signals to determine which voice he or she is attending to, and amplifies that voice. The entire process takes under 10 seconds. “Our system demonstrates a significant improvement in both subjective and objective speech quality measures—almost all of our subjects said they wanted to continue to use it,” Mesgarani says. He and his team are hoping to turn this cognitive hearing aid into a real product within the next five years. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will a helmet be able to spot concussions in real time? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? Does musical improvising teach your brain to think differently? Have we found a clue to treating ALS before it spreads? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University