About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give Breaking New Ground in Energy The Gary L. Thomas Energy Building fuels opportunities for new discoveries. What starts here energizes the future. The University of Texas at Austin has more faculty working to advance energy solutions than any other institution of higher education. Whether exploring traditional or alternative sources to fuel our future, UT’s student and faculty researchers are finding solutions for our energy needs. Thanks to a world-changing gift from Gary L. Thomas, B.S. ’72, UT’s legacy as a global leader in energy education and technology development will continue for generations to come. “People look to Texas to be a leader in energy research and education,” says Brian Korgel, director of UT’s Energy Institute. “Those gifts that give us the flexibility to explore unique, sometimes really timely, research topics and ideas are really important. That’s what enables us to be one of the leading institutions in the world.” The Gary L. Thomas Energy Engineering Building will provide cutting-edge labs and classrooms, student project spaces and collaborative environments. This new facility will allow students and faculty working in petroleum, chemical and mechanical engineering disciplines to engage in unique, timely research topics, generating opportunities for continued discovery and success. This video is part of World-Changing Gifts, a series highlighting the impact of transformational investments made during UT’s What Starts Here fundraising campaign. Stories of Impact More Stories Heroes in the Making Thanks to the generosity of donors, Forty Acres Scholars and future nurses learn to change the world, one patient at a time. Paying Dividends McCombs graduate Phil Canfield and wife Mary Beth support UT’s Canfield Business Honors Program with student scholarships, keeping enterprising minds on the Forty Acres. A Unique Approach to Brain Health UT is advancing knowledge on Alzheimer’s disease, stroke and other neurodegenerative conditions with the financial support of Jim and Miriam Mulva. giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback