Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Steven Cohen Climate Response International & Public Affairs The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Senior Vice Dean of Columbia’s School of Professional Studies; Professor in the Practice of Public Affairs, SIPA; Director, Research Program on Sustainability Policy and Management, the Earth Institute; Director, MPA in Environmental Science and Policy My commitment: Helping cities coexist with nature without destroying it For the first time in history, the majority of people are living in urban areas. To avoid climate catastrophe, cities must invest in the infrastructure of the future—renewable energy, mass and personal transit, and advanced sewage and waste management. We must get away from using finite resources and instead close the loop to turn waste into sustainability. My work explores public policy and city planning solutions to promoting sustainable lifestyles. From the transportation we take to our energy sources to how we manage our food waste, there are concrete solutions to making effective changes now that will ensure our survival in the future. Keep up with Steven Cohen: @StevenACohen Ideas and Impact How can we best prepare for sea-level rise? What can the ocean floor tell us about our climate future? Can turning CO2 to rock fight global warming? How can we translate climate science into agricultural policy? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University