Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home A new chapter for the arts at Columbia Arts and Ideas Arts, School of the Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The Lenfest Center for the Arts, opened in the spring of 2017, places the arts at the center of Columbia’s new Manhattanville campus. A sleek 60,000-square foot building designed by architect Renzo Piano on West 125th Street, the Center hosts public exhibitions, performances, screenings, symposia, readings, lectures, and other events. The school’s classrooms, rehearsal spaces, and administrative offices will remain in Dodge Hall and other locations. “Our emphasis will be to make contemporary art available to the public through conversations and exhibits with artists and thinkers working in and across multiple forms. For the first time, all the different disciplines will be working together in one building," said Carol Becker, Dean of School of the Arts since 2007. "We can invite everyone in the adjoining neighborhoods and the Columbia community—undergraduates, graduates, all the schools together—to experience what we’ve been doing for decades.” “Up until now, the School of the Arts has never been able to show the city what we do, and we’ve never been able to show everyone on campus what we do,” said Becker. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Connecting the visual and performing arts at Columbia’s Miller Theatre How can art inspire hope during wartime? Can a play speak for those betrayed by the American dream? How can music help shape the lives of prisoners and former prisoners? Creating art for all in New York City's subways See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University