Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Our Commitment to Students Nothing outweighs our commitment to bringing the best students to Columbia and encouraging their success here and in the future. The Columbia Student Support Initiative The Columbia Student Support Initiative, launched in April 2021, is a concerted four-year effort involving all of Columbia’s schools. Donors contribute vitally needed resources for undergraduate scholarships, graduate fellowships, and other forms of assistance critical to student success and well-being. Because the needs of students at each school differ to some degree, each school will set its own goals and chart its own path. But the spirit animating the Initiative is shared across the institution: We believe that a Columbia education is transformative for our students and financial need should not be a barrier to accessing it. Learn More Give Now Columbia College’s Financial Aid Campaign Columbia College’s commitment to the support of our students is already deeply instilled in our collective being. It begins with our long-standing policies of need-blind undergraduate admissions and meeting 100% of our students’ demonstrated financial need. This campaign will ensure that access to a Columbia College education is unconstrained by family wealth and that we do our very best to support students who choose careers that serve the public good. Learn More Access Matters: The Scholarship Campaign for Columbia Journalism School Increasing scholarship aid for the next generation of newsroom leaders. Learn More Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University