Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How can machine learning help us hear cries for help? Data and Society Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Millions of people worldwide speak a variety of under-studied and uncategorized languages. Identifying who needs humanitarian assistance during disaster relief becomes difficult in regions using these languages. Computer Science Professors Kathleen McKeown and Julia Hirschberg are developing a universal detection system that helps disaster relief workers identify who needs help the most. "The goal is to analyze the subjective posts and messages of people in crisis situations—whether they're feeling distress, urgency, anger—by accessing Twitter, the web, news articles, and spoken language and to feed that information into our system, which would then identify the areas with the greatest need," said McKeown, who is the Henry and Gertrude Rothschild Professor of Computer Science. The Columbia project is part of a Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) program called LORELEI (low-resource languages for emergent incidents). LORELEI technologies will use machine learning techniques to identify elements that different languages have in common, and then use that data to develop automated language capabilities. "We've shown that we can detect emotions such as anger and stress by training on one language and testing on another,” said Hirschberg, who is the Percy K. and Vida L. W. Hudson Professor of Computer Science and chair of the Computer Science Department at Columbia. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? Is digital anonymity an illusion? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? See All Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University