Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will new methods accelerate the discovery of cancer treatments? Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A new technique for genomic sequencing promises a path to fast and inexpensive identification of the most effective drugs to combat a particular patient’s tumors. The new method combines an innovation in sequencing known as PLATE-Seq with an algorithm that matches drugs to the tumor after sequencing. Sequencing is a process that reveals the genes that are being actively expressed, making it possible to identify potential drug targets. In conventional sequencing, researchers prepare a plate containing 96 wells of different RNA fragments from the same tumor. Every fragment is analyzed separately through the application of expensive reagents. Peter Sims, assistant professor of systems biology, and his lab developed PLATE-Seq, a platform that reduces the standard 96-well sample plate to a single test tube. By pooling the samples, PLATE-Seq makes it possible to analyze them simultaneously. This efficiency reduces the cost of genome-wide screening from around $400 per sample to approximately $25 per sample. In a second step, the sequencing results are evaluated for potential reactivity to drugs using an algorithm developed by Andrea Califano, the Clyde and Helen Wu Professor of Chemical Systems Biology. Using PLATE-Seq, Sims and Califano recently launched cancer treatment studies for a wide variety of tumors. They have already identified nine tumor types that show responses to existing FDA-approved drugs and have started clinical trials to evaluate these drugs as potential treatments. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? Can an algorithm identify disease-carrying genetic mutations to help predict survival? Will genetic testing help older adults avoid hospitalization? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University