Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can tracking teens’ tweets counter gang violence? Data and Society Social Work Engineering Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Today, 92 percent of teens in the US are online daily. Twitter and other social media sites are where young people often voice their distress, anger, or isolation. To understand teens’ traumas, Desmond Patton, an assistant professor at the School of Social Work, brings social work and data science together with social media analyses that help communities predict, prevent, and intervene in gang violence. With Kathleen McKeown, professor of computer science at the School of Engineering and Applied Science, Patton has developed a computational system that detects aggression and loss in Chicago teens’ social media activities from tweets to status updates. Tracking stresses in language patterns, Patton sees the emotional life of youth online before their turn offline to violence. “By better understanding social media as a community context, we can learn how people interact with each other—their challenges, their supports, their strengths—and leverage that information to impact change,” said Patton. Support this Program Learn More Ideas and Impact Is digital anonymity an illusion? Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University