Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Andrea Baccarelli Precision Medicine Public Health Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Leon Hess Professor and Chair of Environmental Health Sciences My commitment: Realizing the promise of precise prevention to transform public health Every day we are bombarded by an array of health advice, which often creates confusion rather than change. As precision medicine transforms the one-size-fits-all approach to a tailored individual diagnosis and treatment, my role at the Mailman School of Public Health is to apply a similar strategy to the prevention side of healthcare: to target specific communities and vulnerable populations with health strategies to prevent disease before it starts. Precise prevention imagines a world where you and your doctor can devise an action plan that uses your own biological, epidemiological, behavioral, and socioeconomic characteristics to stop a disease before it starts. My own work in epigenetics, the study of how genes are read and expressed by cells, is making prevention more precise as we understand the importance of life biosensors. Our DNA records our life experiences, and by looking at how different risk factors (e.g. smoking, physical activity, diet, etc.) affect our DNA, we can use these life biosensors to predict the future disease risk of an individual. With epigenetics and prevention, we need to think about the aspect of social responsibility. Whether I smoke or drink or exercise could influence my children, grandchildren, or great-grandchildren through epigenetics. The mindset to precisely prevent disease and illness before they occur can create healthier homes, workplaces, schools, communities, and cities for our future generations. Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Can curing rare cancers cure all cancers in one day? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University