Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can a website help farmers retain their land rights? Data and Society Law The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Millions of acres of state-controlled farmland in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean have been sold or leased by local governments, often to foreign investors interested in replacing small farms with agri-business. Details are largely kept secret. Local farmers whose families have been working the same plots of land for generations find it difficult to know where they stand—whether they risk eviction after a sale or have legal rights to stay on their land. To bring land deal details to light, researchers at the Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment—a joint venture of Columbia Law School and the Earth Institute—recently launched OpenLandContracts.org. This website gathers publicly available legal documents pertaining to the sale or lease of large parcels of farmland by developing nations. The site currently holds 193 land contracts spanning fourteen countries. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How are mobile phones helping light up Sierra Leone’s future? Is digital anonymity an illusion? How can we make an infant vital-signs monitor affordable around the world? Is DNA the hard drive of the future? Can cataloging venoms' effects lead to drug discovery? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University