Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Brent Stockwell Precision Medicine Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Professor of Biological Sciences and Chemistry My commitment: Discovering powerful new drugs to treat cancer and neurodegenerative diseases There is a crisis now in the pharmaceutical industry. For the past 10 to 15 years, the number of new drugs has been declining because it’s becoming harder and harder to create new medicines using the traditional methods. Drugs function by interacting with specific proteins within the body, called drug targets. However, only two percent of the proteins found in humans have been targeted with drugs, with most of the remaining proteins considered “undruggable.” These latter proteins, however, control nearly every disease process, from many types of cancer to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and Lou Gehrig’s. So, we revisited these other proteins and made inroads in developing smart, targeted drugs by designing molecules that interact with the atomic features of proteins and that are beneficial to patients with specific genetic features. Indeed, we have shed new light on this mystery of protein druggability, opening up a vast number of possibilities for new medicines, and ultimately moving us towards the next generation of precision medicine. Ideas and Impact Will rapid genomic prediction lead to better treatments for cancer? Can genomic medicine restore a child's ability to walk? How does sequencing pediatric tumors help kids fight cancer? Can hair loss be reversed? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University