Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Giving to Cornell Alumni, parents, and friends Search Search Close menu close Explore giving Why give Ways to give Giving stories GIVE NOW Cornell designated class funds Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Gifts from abroad Matching gifts Senior Class Campaign Foundation Relations & Corporate Philanthropy Gifts from abroad Giving to Cornell from international assets is easy, and we’re here to help. Your support helps Cornell educate the next generation of global citizens. Giving with European assets The Cornell University Foundation (UK) Ltd makes giving for UK taxpayers hassle-free and tax-efficient. Transnational Giving Europe (TGE) enables donors in the participating countries listed below to facilitate gifts to the Cornell University Foundation (UK) Ltd. If you are a taxpayer living in one of the following countries, visit our country-specific information below: Belgium (Word, 28 KB) Germany (Word, 29 KB) Luxembourg (Word, 28 KB) Switzerland (Word, 29 KB) Information for UK taxpayers In most cases, giving through the UK Foundation will be the most tax-efficient way to give for individuals liable for taxes in the United Kingdom, or the UK and the US. Gifts to this UK-registered charity are also recognized by the Internal Revenue Service. Relief may be available in both countries for the same gift. Gifts to the foundation may be eligible for Gift Aid, a form of UK tax relief. <!– To determine your Gift Aid amount, please use our Gift Aid calculator. –> Note that higher- or additional-rate UK taxpayers may be entitled to claim the difference between the higher- or additional rate of tax (40% or 45%, respectively) and the basic rate of tax (20%) on the total, or gross, value of your gift to the UK Foundation. Download our FAQ to learn more about the foundation (PDF, 88 KB). Ready to make a gift to the foundation? For cash gifts or checks, download and fill out our Gift Aid Declaration form (PDF, 123 KB) and send, along with your gift payable to the Cornell University Foundation (UK) Ltd., to: Eileen Flood, Administrator Cornell University Foundation (UK) Ltd. 19 Norcott Road London N16 7EJ United Kingdom To talk to our foundation’s representatives, please contact Eileen Flood at 020-7502-2813 or ebf47@cornell.edu. To talk to a Cornell University officer, contact Diane Pierce at 607-254-7172 or dmp296@cornell.edu. Download bank details for wire transfers. (Word document, 13 KB) Giving with other international assets Have a question about making gifts with other international assets or need more help? Let us help you. To talk to a Cornell University officer, contact Diane Pierce at 607-254-7172 or dmp296@cornell.edu. Seasonal Zoom backgrounds 🌸 Spring is here on campus! Give your virtual meetings a little Cornell color and download these Zoom backgrounds. Download Photo: Jason Koski (UREL) Making a difference on campus and in communities Why give? However you direct your generosity, you make a difference in the lives of students, faculty, and the communities where they embody Cornell's mission of creating knowledge with a public purpose. FIND YOUR REASON Ways to give Give online Matching gifts Gifts from abroad Trusts, Estates, and Gift Planning Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022