Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home How do students bring a vintage synthesizer back its groove? Student restorers William Mauro and Dani Dobkin with faculty adviser David Vallancourt. Arts and Ideas Engineering Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel One of the world’s most remarkable collections of electronic music equipment, from the famed RCA Mark II Synthesizer to the latest audio editing software, is at Columbia’s Computer Music Center (CMC). The CMC is the oldest electronic music center in the US, founded in 1958. It has long been a hotbed of electronic music composition and performance. With the CMC at Columbia, music and engineering students are now able to work together to revive old music technologies. In the mid-1960s, Columbia commissioned a synthesizer from electronic music pioneer Don Buchla, an engineer who also consulted for NASA. Buchla synthesizers make unexpected, often unearthly atonal chirps and warbles. They were an essential sound of the electronic music movement of the 1960s. But Columbia’s Buchla had fallen silent over time, victim to blown fuses, stuck knobs, and tangled wires. Now, students are restoring this piece of music history. With a PhD candidate in music and undergraduates in electrical engineering, computer science, and mechanical engineering, an interdisciplinary team has been fixing technology from the mid-60s, including finding telephone switchboard indicator lights. “We often try to put ourselves into the shoes of someone from that era,” says Luis Collado, a junior studying electrical engineering. “It’s a lot of historical orienting of our mind-set to the point of view of a 1963 innovator of music, who was building this when it was revolutionary.” In two semesters, the team restored two of the synthesizer’s three cabinets. Their work inspired their faculty advisor, Electrical Engineering Senior Lecturer David Vallancourt, with what is possible at Columbia. “It would be very hard to find another place with that deep of a connection to electronic music,” says Vallencourt. “That’s about being at Columbia and about being in New York City.” Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can storytelling help AI be more human? Can centering the Black model in modernism change how we see art? What can a play reveal about the illegal ivory trade? Can art make undocumented immigrants more visible? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University