Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Giving About News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Give Now About News Where to Give How to Give Connect Give Now Full Site Navigation News Stories of Impact Featured Series Philanthropy in the News NC State Philanthropy Podcast Where to Give Colleges Units and Programs How to Give Give Today Endowments Planned Gifts Annual Giving Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Corporate and Foundation Gifts Connect Students Alumni Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Wolfpack Fans Meet Our Development Officers Share Your Story Donor Recognition Contact Us Play Video Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy leaders talk about the importance of giving back to NC State. Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Impactful giving. Meaningful engagement. Influential leadership. Amazing learning. Who We Are We are a committed and talented group of multigenerational, multidisciplinary professional women dedicated to growing, recognizing and celebrating philanthropic contributions by women to NC State. Mission of Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Build a sustainable, engaged network of diverse women committed to NC State through their leadership, philanthropy and influence. Vision of Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Inspire and engage women to transform the culture of philanthropy at NC State through influential leadership and impactful giving. Learn more Leadership About Us Opportunities to Get Involved Contact There is strength in the Pack, when it comes to collective impact — through financial support, volunteer service, advocacy and the other ways we can give back to NC State. For more information, contact us at WolfpackWomenInPhilanthropy@ncsu.edu or via this form. A Message from Wolfpack Women in Philanthropy Read the latest update from our leadership council and learn how you can get involved and connected with more of the women in the Wolfpack. Read More Our Vision of Impactful Women in Action NC State Distinguished Education Professor Hollylynne Lee Receives Cherry Award The Cherry Award honors professors with exceptional teaching skills who have a record of having a positive, inspiring and long-lasting impact on students. Read more Extraordinary Difference: Adama and Dewayne Washington Adama and Dewayne Washington are some of the many Pack members who contributed to this historic fundraising effort. For the Washingtons, it was never a question of if they would give back to NC State but how. Read more Wilson College Equity for Women Award Winners The Equity for Women Award is given to NC State students, faculty and staff who have helped create opportunities that will assist women in their respective fields. Read More Extraordinary Difference: Lindsay Wrege Lindsay Wrege ’21 is one of the many Pack members who have been benefited by this historic fundraising effort. Wrege is helping adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities gain meaningful employment through 321 Coffee, a company that she co-founded. Read More Extraordinary Difference: Dr. Natasha Olby The Dr. Kady M. Gjessing and Rahna M. Davidson Distinguished Chair in Gerontology, Professor Neurology and Neurosurgery provides Olby with critical funding to better understand and care for aging pets. Read More Extraordinary Difference: Bria Cofield Wright Bria Cofield Wright '16 '19, a fifth-grade English language arts and social studies teacher at Hortons Creek Elementary School in Cary, is able to continue her family’s proud academic tradition thanks in part to funding from the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign. Read More Extraordinary Difference: Meriem Laroussi Laroussi came to NC State to break the mold and learn like only she could. Through support from the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign, she did just that — and more — as a Fitts Scholar in Fitts-Woolard Hall. Read More Extraordinary Difference: Vie Villafuerte Vie Villafuerte ’22 is one of the many Pack members who have benefited from the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign. Villafuerte got her chance at earning an engineering degree in the U.S. when her family moved from Peru so she could chase her dreams. Read More Extraordinary Difference: Elissa Cunane Cunane is one of NC State’s best basketball players, but she stays just as busy off the court. With help from the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign, student-athletes like Cunane are empowered as leaders in competition, the classroom and the community. Read More Lighting the Torch for Future Students Five NC State alumnae have created a scholarship to honor the 45th anniversary of the Mu Omicron chapter of Delta Sigma Theta's founding. Read More Through the Darkness to Shine a Light To become the first in her family to earn a degree, Esmira Poladova persevered through tragedy and challenges and, as an NC State senior, even became an advocate for other underresourced students. Read More Modern Trailblazers Shaping NC State While NC State has a whole cast of female trailblazers reaching back all the way to 1889, women on campus today are still breaking down barriers. Read More Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 919-515-7827 Email Us Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Campus Map The NC State University Foundation is recognized as a 501(c)(3) public charitable organization. Donations to the NC State University Foundation are deductible to the extent permitted by law. © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.