What Starts Here Ways to Give Matching Gifts Gift & Estate Planning Scholarships Endowments Beneficiary Designation Stocks, Bonds & Securities UT Employee Gifts For Corporations For Foundations Get Involved Development Board President’s Associates Work at UTalk Texas Leadership Society Stories Students Faculty Health & Care Vibrant Future Contact Careers Give Now What Starts Here Ways to Give Stories Contact Give Now Join our Team On This Page About Us Our Mission Professional Development Diversity Open Positions Working at UT Benefits About UT Development Leadership Contact a Recruiter Ready to help change the world? Explore career opportunities across Texas Development. Open Positions We are Texas Development What starts at The University of Texas at Austin changes the world. Together, through one of the largest fundraising efforts in our state’s history, we will open doors to a first-class education, recruit top faculty, create healthier communities and solve global problems. Join us in changing the world. Our Mission The core purpose of the university is to transform lives for the benefit of society. Texas Development’s mission is to maximize philanthropic support for the university, our students and our faculty as they work to positively impact Texas and beyond. We strive to reach the highest levels of achievement and success in all that we do by creating meaningful and powerful experiences for our donors. Opportunity for Professional Development Our Talent Development program provides the resources to help every Texas Development team member accomplish their goals, enrich their skillset and deepen their engagement with UT. Our Getting to BIGGER training includes educational programming on Texas Development’s culture, development fundamentals, topics and trends in the field, management and leadership, and best practices in frontline fundraising. Diversity and Inclusion Texas Development works to promote a culture of diversity and inclusion among our staff and donor communities through our training, recruitment and cultural practices. A dedicated Diversity & Inclusion Committee — alongside Texas Development leadership and our entire team — ensure that our culture increases respect for the dignity of each individual. Join Our Team We aspire to become the best fundraising program in public higher education. Ready to help change the world? Explore our career opportunities. Development Specialist – Account Specialist University Development Office To work in collaboration with the annual giving programs team (AG) to provide project management, writing, and college, school and unit (CSU) strategy. Apply Now Senior Director of Development College of Liberal Arts To raise philanthropic support for the College of Liberal Arts (COLA) focusing on principal gift donors with a capacity of $1,000,000 and soliciting gifts of $1,000,000 plus annually. Apply Now Development Specialist, Annual Giving Dell Medical School Reporting to the associate director of annual giving, this position will write content for Dell Medical School’s annual giving program, track data, and assist with developing strategies to acquire and retain donors. This position will also provide administrative support to Dell Med development’s annual giving team. Apply Now Associate Director for Development Texas Performing Arts The Associate Director of Development of Texas Performing Arts at UT Austin (TPA) forms and grows relationships with individuals and businesses who invest in TPA’s vision of creating, presenting, and connecting through performance. Apply Now Director of Development University Priorities This Director of Development position is part of the University Priorities team. This team raises funds to support all programs, efforts and activities that will help to unlock our students’ potential – a key priority of the What Starts Here campaign. Apply Now Director of Development College of Education To raise philanthropic support from major gift donors with a capacity of $100,000 to $1,000,000. Will work on gifts of $100,000+ plus annually. Apply Now Director of Principal Gifts Texas Law School To raise philanthropic support for the University of Texas School of Law (“Texas Law”), focusing on principal gift donors with a capacity of $1,000,000 soliciting gifts of $1,000,000 plus annually. Apply Now Director of Development, Principal Gifts, Entrepreneurship Initiatives University Development Office To serve as a Director of Principal gifts within the University Development Office and raise philanthropic support focusing on principal gift donors with a capacity of $1,000,000 soliciting gifts of $1,000,000 plus annually. Apply Now Director of Gift and Estate Planning University Development Office To serve as a director on UT Austin’s Gift and Estate Planning team providing guidance to donors, prospects and their advisors, and colleagues on planned giving strategies and techniques for completing significant charitable gifts to advance discovery and transform the future. Apply Now Director of Principal Gifts, Healthcare Initiatives University Development Office Apply Now Director of Principal Gifts, STEM Initiatives University Development Office To serve as a Director of Principal gifts within the University Development Office and raise philanthropic support for STEM focused initiatives, focusing on principal gift donors with a capacity of $1,000,000 soliciting gifts of $1,000,000 plus annually. Apply Now Director of Development, University Priorities University Development Office To serve as a Director of Major Gifts within the University Development Office and raise philanthropic support for Texas Challenge scholarships and other scholarships, focusing on major gift donors with a capacity of $250,000 soliciting gifts of $250,000 plus annually. Apply Now Senior Director of Development, University Priorities University Development Office To serve as a Senior Director of Principal Gifts within the University Development Office and raise philanthropic support for Texas Challenge scholarships and other scholarships, focusing on principal gift donors with a capacity of $1,000,000 soliciting gifts of $1,000,000 plus annually. Apply Now Director of Principal Gifts, University Priorities University Development Office Apply Now Research Analyst University Development Office To provide research and prospect/portfolio management support for private-sector fundraising programs campus-wide at The University of Texas at Austin. Apply Now Director of Development, Development Communications Dell Medical School Reporting to the Interim Chief Development Officer at Dell Medical School, this position will lead and execute communications strategy that shares the impact of philanthropy on the school’s dynamic mission to revolutionize how people get and stay healthy. Apply Now Director of Foundation Relations University Development Office The Foundation Relations team works to match the interests of private foundations with The University of Texas at Austin’s research and programmatic strengths and priorities. Apply Now Director of Development, College of Fine Arts University Development Office To raise philanthropic support for the College of Fine Arts, focusing on major gift donors with a capacity of $100,000 soliciting gifts of $100,000 plus annually. Apply Now Principal Gifts Writer University Development Office The Principal Gifts Writer will be responsible for creating content for gift proposals, letters, marketing collateral, invitations, and other correspondence related to principal gift activity. Apply Now Sr. Business Intelligence Developer University Development Office Reporting to the Director of Data Management, the Sr. BI Developer will lead actionable business intelligence and data analytics solutions within the University Development Office for both the office and larger campus community as assigned. This role will focus on annual giving programs campaigns and advanced analytics. Apply Now Manager, President’s Events University Development Office To produce stylish and sophisticated events of the highest quality for the president of the university and his guests. Apply Now Director of Principal Gifts University Development Office To serve as a Regional Director of Principal Gifts within the University Development Office and raise philanthropic support for University of Texas at Austin initiatives, focusing on principal gift donors with a capacity of $1,000,000 soliciting gifts of $1,000,000 plus annually on the West Coast of the United States. Apply Now Digital Fundraising Specialist University Development Office This role will be a part of the growing digital engagement team at Texas Development, the central fundraising arm of the University of Texas at Austin. Apply Now Executive Director of University Events University Development Office The university seeks a strategic leader who can provide direction for all university events and work closely with the Office of the President to develop quality events that engage the multitude of constituents. Apply Now Leadership Giving Associate University Development Office Raise philanthropic support for campus-wide entities by focusing on donors with a capacity of $25,000 to $100,000 as well as unrated prospects. Apply Now Development Associate University Development Office Apply Now Director of Development Blanton Museum of Art The Blanton Museum of Art is committed to increasing the diversity and inclusion in its working environment. The museum seeks an individual who pursues excellence through diversity at all levels and is committed to fostering an environment in which visitors, students, and staff from a variety of backgrounds, cultures, and personal experiences are welcome and can thrive. Apply Now Senior Development Associate University Development Office To assist top leadership of the Vice President for Development team through the daily management of administrative activities. Apply Now Resources Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Web Privacy Policy Site Policies Adobe Reader Helpful Links Directory Careers Texas Exes UT Longhorn Foundation Update Your Information Publications Changing the World Grateful Texas Leader Campaigns What Starts Here 40 for Forty HornRaiser Legacy Challenges © University Development Office 2022 | The University of Texas at Austin Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback