Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will listening better to patients’ stories improve healthcare? Arts and Ideas Professional Studies Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Rita Charon, Columbia professor of clinical medicine, has dedicated herself to helping patients and health professionals talk and listen to each other. Too often, she feels, patients’ symptoms are addressed in isolation without the personal and social contexts of their lives. She believes sickness unfolds in stories, and a physician's job is to absorb and decipher these stories before acting on them. To bring the full person into the treatment room, Charon and her colleagues founded at Columbia in 2000 Narrative Medicine, a new discipline combining literary theory, philosophy, narrative ethics, and the creative arts. Focused on the structural elements of stories, Narrative Medicine helps clinicians develop listening skills. In 2009, Columbia became the first school to offer a graduate degree in Narrative Medicine, and many graduates have gone on to professional training in medicine. An important part of Narrative Medicine is how doctors respond to patients’ stories. Charon developed a writing exercise, “keeping a parallel chart,” in which the physician writes his or her own feelings about the patient. The chart helps doctors process complex feelings of empathy and grief to better connect to their patients. Recently, Charon and fellow faculty members published The Principles and Practice of Narrative Medicine, which articulates the ideas, methods, and practices of the discipline, guiding readers in how to recognize patients' suffering to help them through the chaos of illness. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University