Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will Googling help us think better? The Future of Neuroscience Faculty of Arts & Sciences Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel What’s the capital of Bolivia? When did the first person walk on the moon? Who invented peanut butter? Don’t remember? Not to worry. These are trivia questions a Google search can answer, and while your brain is perhaps less prone to storing information in the Internet age, your cortical hard drive may be getting better at finding that information, according to recent research by Columbia psychologist Betsy Sparrow. Sparrow and her co-authors were the first to illustrate how the Internet is changing brain functions, especially memory. The psychologists asked college students to type statements such as, “The space shuttle Columbia disintegrated during reentry over Texas in 2003.” Half were told their statements would be saved, others their statements would be deleted. Students told the former were less likely to remember their statements’ content. Yet when students were asked to type and save their statements to different computer folders, students remembered little of what they typed but exactly where their statements were stored. “That kind of blew my mind,” said Sparrow. “It shows that people now perceive that it’s more important to remember where they can find information than to commit to memory the information itself.” Scientists have only begun to ask about the Internet’s impact on our brains, but Sparrow hypothesizes that as we use less mental energy to memorize, we may become more creative problem solvers than we were before Google and Wikipedia. Despite the worries of a generation or two of parents, perhaps the Internet isn’t turning our brains to mush. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can a Wellness Center improve the health of Columbia's neighbors? Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? How can brain scans help treat and prevent PTSD? Can nanotechnology map the human brain? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University