Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Can AI defeat the tsetse fly to stop disease? Data and Society The Earth Institute Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel The African tsetse fly is the only transmitter of the infectious sleeping sickness, which kills thousands of people and millions of livestock annually in sub-Saharan Africa. A new strategy of breeding the flies in captivity, sterilizing the males, and then releasing them into the wild has been successful in disrupting their mating patterns and causing many colonies to collapse. Now a researcher at Columbia has found a way streamline this process, with the potential to save lives and make portions of Africa habitable again. Zelda Moran, a staff research associate at Columbia’s Earth Institute invented an imaging technique that can see inside tsetse flies’ pupa before they hatch. This led to the discovery that male and female pupae develop on different schedules. Using this information, Moran collaborated with Columbia physicist Szabolcs Marka to create an artificial intelligence program that can instantly identify male flies and separate them to be sterilized through an automated system. Moran is currently in conversations with scientists at The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) about building a prototype for the tsetse-breeding facility in Senegal. The IAEA oversees international scientists working on the Senegalese project. Moran hopes her technology, if proven effective, will enable the IAEA to expand its tsetse-sterilization project and eventually bring it to other African countries. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Can tracking surgeons' stress make surgery safer? How can a database fight toxic exposure from consumer products? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? What is the Columbia commitment to data and society? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University