Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Why do genetic mutations cause disease in some people but not in others? Precision Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel Two Columbia researchers have tackled one of biology’s long-standing mysteries: why people with identical genetic mutations can have different levels of severity of a disease—or not have it at all. Systems biology assistant professor Tuuli Lappalainen and post-doctoral research fellow Stephane Castel discovered that disease risk is not only determined by variation in genes that code for a particular disorder (coding variants), but also by differences in genes that regulate gene activity (regulatory variants). “Our findings suggest that a person’s disease risk is potentially determined by a combination of their regulatory and coding variants, and not just one or the other,” said Lappalainen. “We have merged these two fields into one clear hypothesis that uses data from both of them, which was fairly unheard of before.” The researchers first studied the interactions between coding and regulatory variants in a population without severe genetic diseases and determined that a combination of these two factors protected against disease. Then, they turned to a disease-specific population of patients and found that, for cancer patients and individuals with autism, a combination of coding and regulatory variants increased disease risk. Next, Lappalainen and Castel designed an experiment using genome editing technology that showed that the regulatory variant modified the effect of the coding disease-causing variant. “The long-term goal of the research is better prediction of whether an individual is going to have a disease using their genetic data by integrating the regulatory and coding variants,” Lappalainen said. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact How can we tailor bladder cancer treatments to patients? How can we pick up DNA's faintest signals? Can we program bacteria to fight cancer? Will new methods accelerate the discovery of cancer treatments? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University