Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities/Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) The Forever Orange Campaign creates a world of opportunity Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University works to ensure philanthropic support that creates an unsurpassed student experience, fosters academic excellence, and provides unique learning opportunities. Each of these overarching priorities strengthens—and is strengthened by—the University’s commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEIA). With a wide variety of giving opportunities targeted to DEIA programming and initiatives, we will enhance learning and teaching by bringing together people with diverse points of view, life experiences, ethnicities, cultures and belief systems. Since 1870, Syracuse University has understood that our unique differences are what make us stronger and allow our Orange community to connect, grow and evolve. We believe that engaging with multiple points of view, life experiences, ethnicities and cultures is essential to academic excellence and student success. By standing behind and lifting up deserving and dedicated students, we can make a positive impact and meet real needs for a single student or impact the lives of many. Together, we can amplify our commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility by investing in students and faculty―allowing them to be part of a global community while fulfilling their potential and showing the world what Orange can do. In This Section Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top