Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Will helping neurons to communicate help alleviate neurodegenerative disease? The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel A research team led by George Z. Mentis may uncover a new way to fight spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). SMA causes progressive muscle wasting and paralysis, and often leads to death. Dr. Mentis is associate professor of pathology and cell biology and of neurology at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), and a member of the Motor Neuron Center and the Columbia Translational Neuroscience Initiative at CUIMC. Triggered by a genetic mutations that causes a deficiency of a protein called SMN, the disease begins as early as infancy. As levels of SMN drop, motor neurons, which control movement, begin to fail and eventually die. Using mouse models of SMA, Mentis and his colleagues have demonstrated that SMN deficiency in sensory neurons also causes changes in the synapses that connect them to motor neurons. This sets off a chain reaction that diminishes the neurons’ ability to send signals that tell muscles to contract. When the mice were treated with a compound that stimulates synaptic activity, signaling between sensory neurons and spinal motor neurons returned to nearly normal levels, and their motor function improved. These findings suggest a novel approach to boosting motor neuron health by increasing communication between different types of neurons, which may offer a new avenue for the treatment of SMA. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact What does poverty do to kids’ brains? Will Googling help us think better? How can we help Parkinson's patients avoid falls? Unpacking the "Aha!" moment to make better split-second decisions See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University