About Impact Leadership About Impact Leadership Give Campaign Leadership What Starts Here campaign volunteer leaders’ generosity, leadership and vision make them some of the university’s most valued partners. Hundreds of alumni and friends have joined us to set an example through their giving and commitment to our cause — and we are grateful. Executive & Steering Committees College, School, and Unit Committees Corporate Champions Council Campaign Ambassador Committee Campaign Executive and Steering Committees Members of the What Starts Here Campaign Executive and Steering Committees provide UT leaders with strategic oversight and guidance, oversee all campaign volunteers, and serve as key ambassadors and advocates to ensure the success of the most ambitious fundraising campaign in university history. Executive Committee Phil Canfield Chicago, Illinois "Helping education — and helping people get access to education — is the single best-ROI investment you can make." Mindy Hildebrand Houston, Texas "We benefited from the donors who came before us, and now it’s our turn. By supporting our students and faculty, we are investing in the future of Texas and beyond!" Ross Moody Austin, Texas "The Moody Foundation has a long history with this prestigious university and this wonderful community. We couldn’t be happier to partner with UT to benefit future generations of Longhorns and Texans." Bobby Patton Fort Worth, Texas "One of our goals in making gifts is to draw more attention to important work and departments and help them grow. I’m proud that our support plays a part in that." Rex Tillerson Dallas, Texas "I received a terrific academic foundation at UT, and on-campus experiences shaped me and built my value system. UT must continue to provide similar educational and social opportunities to others." Mitchel Wong, M.D. Austin, Texas "The University of Texas opened my eyes to new opportunities, enabled me to meet special people and exposed me to experiences that literally changed my life." Steering Committee John L. Adams Dallas, Texas "Because of the education we received at UT and what it has meant to us, we feel an obligation to “pay it back.” The personal joy from making a difference in the lives of students, faculty and programs is amazing." Ernie Cockrell Houston, Texas "People who make gifts to universities chart the course for greatness. They inspire others with great love for these institutions and great capacity to serve to make transformational investments." Wofford Denius Los Angeles, California "I hope my support will enable students to discover and pursue their passions and dreams." Lois Folger Midland, Texas "There’s really no better way to support Texas and our community than to advance our state’s flagship university —to keep UT great." Richard Folger Midland, Texas "The opportunity to support UT’s world-class research, and the education of the next generation of leaders, is an investment in the future success and growth of Texas. A contribution to our university will create a positive long-term impact on so many lives." Gloria Moncrief Holmsten Forth Worth, Texas "This university has shaped my life — I truly believe what starts here changes the world. We must engage our alumni and future leaders to continue to grow the investment that so many have made before us. I am proud to be a Longhorn!" Woody Hunt El Paso, Texas "I have always connected my success partially to the quality of the education I got at UT and am proud to help provide that opportunity for others." Jeanne Klein Austin, Texas "We get such personal satisfaction from giving back and helping others enjoy the same educational experience that was provided to us." Mickey Klein Austin, Texas "By creating scholarships for aspiring teachers in the College of Education and future nurses in the School of Nursing, we enable students to pursue their education without the burden of student debt." Ray Nixon Dallas, Texas "I’m a philanthropic supporter because UT transforms people — enabling them to engage our society and make a difference." giving.utexas.edu Ways to Give Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset Feedback