Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Strategic Priorities Strategic Priorities Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University Our goal to raise $1.5 billion in private philanthropy from Syracuse University alumni, parents, corporate partners and friends will further advance academic excellence, provide an unparalleled student experience and create unique learning opportunities that impact our world in extraordinary ways. Student Support When you give to scholarship, you open doors for exceptional students from diverse backgrounds who aspire to be Orange. Consider creating a scholarship in your name, or donate to an existing scholarship fund in an area of your choice. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) With a wide variety of giving opportunities targeted to DEIA programming and initiatives, we will enhance learning and teaching by bringing together people with diverse points of view, life experiences, ethnicities, cultures and belief systems. Facilities Facilities represent an essential part of Syracuse University’s Campus Framework, a visionary roadmap meant to guide future campus planning and development for the next 20 years. Fund for Syracuse Annual dollars provided through The Fund for Syracuse are flexible and immediately available, enabling the chancellor, deans, and other division heads to funnel those dollars wherever they are most urgently needed. School, College, and Unit Priorities Support a part of Syracuse University that has special meaning to you, whether it’s a particular school, college, the Syracuse University Libraries, Hendricks Chapel, or one of the many more… Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top