Skip to main content Close Menu Primary Menu Our Campaign Ways to Give Give Now Payment Methods Gifts of Securities Crowdfunding Matching Gifts Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Planned Giving Recurring Gifts Learn More Open the Door Giving Day Giving Societies International Gifts Pledges Student Calling Center Tax Information Gifts in Action Why We Give Schools & Units Contact Open Menu Search Make a Gift Our Campaign - Sub Menu Arts and Ideas Climate Response Just Societies Data and Society Global Solutions Future of Neuroscience Precision Medicine Students COVID-19 Recovery School Campaigns About Giving - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Ways to Give - Sub Menu Give Now Payment Methods Matching Gifts Crowdfunding Gifts of Securities Gifts of Other Assets Gifts from Retirement Plans Give over Time Gift Planning Recurring Gifts Pledges Learn More Tax and Related Information International Gifts Endowment Giving Giving Societies Open the Door Giving Day Corporate and Foundation Partnerships Student Calling Center Columbia University is geared as never before to address world issues from climate change to social justice. The Columbia Commitment builds partnerships with donors and volunteers sharing an urgent sense of what Columbians can do for our students and the world. Ways to Give With your gift, renew Columbia’s commitment to students, faculty, and solutions. Breadcrumb Home Mapping MS to reveal potential avenues for treatment The Future of Neuroscience Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Share Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Cancel It has long been known that in multiple sclerosis (MS), the brain and spinal cord come under devastating attack from the immune system but determining exactly which parts of the immune system are involved has been elusive, at least until now. Researchers at Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) have created a genomic map of the disease to identify the full range of immune cells that contribute to brain inflammation and nerve cell death. To make the map, they first identified 233 genetic variants involved in initiating MS. They then followed the effects these variants had on different types of immune cell, looking for the molecular processes that would cause the immune cells to attack the brain and spinal cord. This genomic map showed that many different immune cells are involved in MS, both in the brain and in the bloodstream. As the cells start to misfire, they confuse the body into attacking itself. “This broader perspective on the widespread dysfunction of the immune system will help scientists identify the best targets and drugs for preventing individuals at risk of MS from developing the disease,” said study leader Philip De Jager, MD, PhD, director of the Multiple Sclerosis Center at CUIMC. Current MS treatments are able to help only after brain inflammation has already begun. With the genomic map, those at risk could start preventative and early treatments that target the specific areas of the immune system that are in jeopardy. Learn more. Make Your Commitment Today Give Now Ideas and Impact Will running electric currents through the brain treat depression? How can we ensure new brain technologies are used ethically? Revolutionary microscope captures biology at the speed of life Will brain imaging help us develop new treatments for anorexia? See All Ways to Give Learn More Impact Explore Make a Gift Find a Fund Footer Menu Columbia Alumni Association Columbia Magazine Privacy Policy © 2022 Columbia University