Skip to main content Give by calling 877.247.6978 Give Online Open menu Strategic Priorities Forever Orange Academic Excellence An Unsurpassed Student Experience Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Excellence Program Student Support Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) Giving Opportunities Facilities 119 Euclid Ave. The Barnes Center at The Arch National Veterans Resource Center Schine Student Center Fund for Syracuse School, College, and Unit Priorities Campaign News Donor Impact Special Groups Generation O Reunion Classes Class Act The 1870 Society Lubin Society/Parents The Hill Society The Hill Society Stories The Hill Society Impact Thank You Videos Student Interviews Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities Matching Gifts International Giving Gift Planning Corporations & Foundations Naming Opportunities & Endowments Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association Regional Alumni Volunteer Parents Shop Syracuse Contact Us Request Information Giving Staff Home /Connect with 'Cuse Connect with 'Cuse Syracuse University Alumni Association You are an important part of the Syracuse University family, and we look forward to sharing in your journey and helping you celebrate your accomplishments and SUccesses! Regional Alumni Looking to connect with alumni and friends, find a local admissions representative, or just learn more about Syracuse University? Volunteer Whether it’s guest teaching a class, serving on a board, sponsoring immersion trips for students, or posting job opportunities in ‘Cuse Community, our volunteers support students and alumni in many ways. Join our volunteer network today by searching the volunteer opportunities in our links and staying connected to Syracuse University. Parents The Parents Office is here to promote awareness of and involvement in your student's educational experience. Shop Syracuse You can never have enough orange in your wardrobe! Visit the Syracuse University Bookstore to see what’s new. Connect Online Connect on Facebook Connect on Twitter Connect on Instagram Connect on LinkedIn Footer Section Office of Development Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 Phone: 315.443.1848 Toll-free: 877.2GROWSU Fax: 315.443.2874 Email: giving@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Events Calendar Athletics Syracuse University Magazine Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Alumni Engagement Job Opportunities Update Your Info Site Map Site Search AEA Toolkit Authentication required Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Give Online 877.247.6978 Syracuse University has 501(c)(3) non‐profit tax exempt status; our federal tax ID number is 15-0532081. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top