Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Giving Giving Search Home Ways to Give Giving Societies Beyond Brilliant Give Now Home Ways to Give Giving Societies Beyond Brilliant Give Now Breadcrumb Acclaimed as America’s fastest rising university and a proud member of the world’s most prestigious public university system, UC Riverside both embodies and empowers the California Dream. Today UCR attracts an ambitious new generation of bold thinkers. Here at UCR, students test and hone their talents as members of an exceptional community defined by authenticity, radical connectivity, and academic rigor. Here they learn to respect differences, embrace new perspectives, and value collective insight. Here they find their voice and empower their rise as next-gen explorers, activists, leaders, and entrepreneurs. And here is where you come in: Make your gift today to empower the next generation of Highlanders. Give Now “You are our American dream.” We asked 11 first-generation graduates what being the first in their family to earn a college diploma meant to them. Then we opened up the question to their families. See what happens when the students read their families’ responses for the first time (grab the tissues!). You can create lifechanging impact for first-generation students when you make a gift to UC Riverside today. Give Now Learn about the inspiring students you support when you give to UCR Writing Her Future Third-year poet channels her ambitions and passion for writing at UCR. Read Story Deep Roots Aspiring dentist and student-athlete aims to make her parents proud. Read story Booster Shot Medical school scholarships and pipeline programs give students a chance to serve their communities. Read story ‘Rocky’ in Riverside UCR alums and students deliver a one-two punch to help local at-risk youth. Read story Areas to Support University Greatest Needs Allowing university leaders to support needs and commitments that arise during the school year, the Living the Promise Fund is an unrestricted fund supported by gifts raised through direct mail and e-philanthropy. Give Now Student Scholarships Gifts towards UCR scholarship funds play a critical role in enabling the best and brightest students to reach their potential and achieve their dreams. Give Now College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences A combination of the arts, humanities, and social sciences create a unique environment to examine diverse dimensions of social and historical life and human meaning. Give Now College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences Evolving out of the Citrus Experiment Station, the College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences brings together the study of agricultural, life, physical, and mathematical sciences for collaboration. Give Now Graduate School of Education A professional school responsible for linking research, instruction, and service in the field of education, programs help educators at all levels take on today’s toughest education challenges. Give Now Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering Producing engineers with the knowledge to serve rapidly-changing technology and conducting cutting-edge research, Bourns College of Engineering is a catalyst for industrial growth in Inland Southern California, the state, and the world. Give Now School of Business Preparing students for management and leadership roles in today’s global landscape, the School of Business offers MBA and Ph.D. programs, and the largest undergraduate program in the UC system. Give Now School of Medicine Opened in 2013, the UC Riverside School of Medicine is expanding and diversifying the region’s physician workforce and developing research and health care delivery programs to improve the health of medically underserved populations. Give Now School of Public Policy Working in partnership with policy makers, entrepreneurs, and business leaders in our area and around the world, faculty and students in the UCR School of Public Policy address complex issues facing growing communities today. Give Now UCR Arts Comprising California Museum of Photography, Sweeney Art Gallery, and The Barbara and Art Culver Center of the Arts on a single city block of downtown Riverside’s bustling Main Street pedestrian plaza, UCR Arts is an internationally-recognized visual and performing arts center that serves as a cultural anchor for the university and the region. Give Now UCR Athletics The Highlanders compete in 17 sports at the NCAA Division I level, the highest level of collegiate competition in the country. Proud members of the Big West Conference, a group of nine schools all based within the state of California, the Athletics program at UCR enhances the reputation of the university and provides student-athletes with the opportunity for growth outside the classroom. Give Now UCR Botanic Gardens Nestled in the foothills of the Box Springs Mountains on the east side of campus, the UCR Botanic Gardens cover 40 hilly acres, connecting people with nature. As a living classroom without walls, the gardens provide a wide assortment of materials for courses at UCR as well as other local schools, ranging from botany and anthropology to entomology and photography. Visitors to campus come to explore the four miles of scenic trails, view our more than 3,500 plant species from around the world, or just relax on a bench and enjoy the beauty. Give Now UCR Extension For more than 50 years, UCR Extension has provided educational opportunities to people of all ages seeking professional advancement, personal fulfillment, and fun ways to learn new skills. UC Riverside Extension operates independently as a nonprofit division of UCR. Give Now UCR Library With three million volumes, 28,000 print and electronic serial subscriptions, 1.7 million microforms, 300,000 government information sources, and access to 500,000 e-books, music, and media collections, the UCR Library serves the research and teaching needs of the campus and also serves the community as the regional research library for the Inland Empire. Give Now UCR Palm Desert Center UCR Palm Desert Center is Coachella Valley’s site where students, faculty, supporters, and friends gather to advance knowledge and wisdom, tackle society’s challenges, and pursue intellectual and personal fulfillment. Give Now Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel