Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation About Us Fellowships Events Douglass Book Prize Modern Slavery Digital Resources Donate the David Brion Davis Memorial Endowed Resource Fund The Gilder Lehrman Center Legacy Fund The Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies was founded in 1998 at Yale University. The Gilder Lehrman Center was the first institution in the world wholly devoted to scholarship, public education, and outreach about the global problem of slavery across all borders and all time. In a world that needs this work now more than ever, we invite you to join us in sustaining our mission to foster an improved academic and public understanding of the role of slavery, its destruction, and its legacies in the functioning of the modern world. To support the annual programming, outreach, and other key activities of the Gilder Lehrman Center, please contribute to the Gilder Lehrman Center Legacy Fund. What’s New at the Gilder Lehrman Center 23rd Annual Frederick Douglass Book Prize Award Ceremony Event Recording Now Available February 24, 2022 One of the most coveted awards for the study of slavery and abolition, this $25,000 prize is sponsored jointly by the Gilder Lehrman Institute and the Gilder Lehrman Center... The Gilder Lehrman Center Announces the Argiro Fellowship in the Study of Modern Slavery, 2022-2023 January 24, 2022 The Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition (GLC), part of the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale University,... Karin Zipf: Cryptocurrency mining, sex trafficking share connection January 21, 2022 Karin Zipf (Professor of History, East Carolina University) was a GLC Visiting Professor in Fall 2018. Listen to a podcast interview about her work: https://... GLC Fellowship Applications for 2022-2023 now Being Accepted January 18, 2022 The Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition (GLC), part of the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale University,... Trump has birthed a dangerous new ‘Lost Cause’ myth. We must fight it January 13, 2022 The lie that the election was ‘stolen’ from Trump is building its monuments in ludicrous stories, and codifying them in laws to make the next elections easier to pilfer. By... More news... COVID 19 Conversations - A Podcast Series Alondra Nelson on DNA, Race, and Reparations GLC Director, David W. Blight talks with Alondra Nelson on DNA, Race, and Reparations. Elizabeth Hinton on Race, Policing, and Mass Incarceration in times of COVID 19 GLC Director, David W. Blight talks with Elizabeth Hinton on Race, Policing, and Mass Incarceration in times of the COVID 19 global pandemic. Carol Anderson on Race, Voting, and Democracy in times of COVID 19 GLC Director, David W. Blight talks with Carol Anderson on Race, Voting, and Democracy in times of COVID 19 global pandemic. Carolyn Roberts and Sascha James-Conterelli on Race, Health, and Medicine in times of COVID 19 GLC Director, David W. Blight talks with Carolyn Roberts and Sascha James-Conterelli on Race, Health, and Medicine during the COVID 19 global pandemic. Carolyn Roberts on Race, Health, and Medicine in times of COVID 19 GLC Director David W. Blight talks with Assistant Professor Carolyn Roberts on Race, Health, and Medicine during the COVID 19 global pandemic. Subscribe to our Newsletter Email Address * First Name Last Name Upcoming Events No events to display. Additional GLC Websites Yale and Slavery Research Project Legacies of American Slavery Project Slavery and Its Legacies Podcast Yale Slavery and Abolition Portal Shared Histories Program Voices From The Archive Runaway New England Slavery and Its Legacies Podcast Amanda Kleintop on Abolishing Property Rights in Slaves during and after the US Civil War Tweets by @YaleGLC Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube