Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Graduate Life Office Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Who We Are GLO Services Community Associates Community Associate Resources Apply to be a Community Associate Crisis Assistance Concerned About a Student? Current Graduate Students Incoming Graduate Students Support in Graduate Residences GLO Programs Graduate Student Programming Board New Graduate Student Orientation (NGSO) GOALIE NGSO Coordinators NGSO Overview Previous NGSOs Programming Resources Living in Palo Alto Resources By Category Stanford Policies News Students with Children Additional Support and Resources Announcements Childcare and Education Family Programs and Events Graduate Academic Policies and Procedures Living at Stanford with Children News Main content start Home Is Where the Farm Is. The Graduate Life Office (GLO) is a division of the Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs and is guided by Our Most Important Work. We serve the entire graduate student population at Stanford and their families. GLO deans are a source of comprehensive, impartial guidance and information related to all aspects of your life as a graduate student. Crisis Assistance Mental Health Resources at Stanford We know that you will experience new and unexpected challenges while on-campus. Here you'll find a wealth of mental health resources. Learn More OSE Upcoming Events The Farm is a very special place indeed with connections occurring every day across our communities. We want our students to flourish and to find their space. Find out about upcoming events hosted through CardinalEngage and Stanford Events to see how you can expand your experience. Learn More Concerned About a Student? Faculty, staff and friends are in a unique position to identify graduate students who might be having academic or personal problems. Learn More COVID-19 Guidance for Students As we continue to live with COVID-19 and the many ways in which it impacts student life, we've set-up this section to share relevant information with Stanford's communities. Have You Tested Positive for Covid-19? For more information on isolation and to request support during isolation, please visit Guidance for Isolation. Learn More Have You Tested Positive for Covid-19? We understand you have questions. Here's who can help: • For Incoming Graduate Students • For Current Graduate Students • Grad Updates Gateway for New Graduate Students Stanford Against Hate Through the COVID-19 pandemic, more attention and awareness has grown around long standing issues of oppression and injustice. Learn More Stanford University Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Stanford Graduate Life Office Web Login Address 726 Serra Street Suite 173 Stanford, CA 94305 United States graduatelifeoffice@stanford.edu Campus Map Phone: 650.736.7078 The Graduate Life Office is proud to be part of Student Affairs, which advances student development and learning; fosters community engagement; promotes diversity, inclusion and respect; and empowers students to thrive. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top