Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Themes Forced Migration Forced Migration Today, global society is facing an uncertain future and existential challenges. Perhaps no issue has loomed larger in recent years than the historic migration of people. The United Nations estimates that more than 82 million people are currently living as refugees or asylum-seekers, or have been internally displaced due to wars and natural calamity—the largest such population in human history. Syria, with its border fewer than a hundred miles from Columbia’s Global Center in Amman, has been at the epicenter of this crisis. The immediacy and proximity of the Amman Center has allowed for a rapid deployment of academic resources to help deliver impact and is reflective of Columbia University’s commitment to better understand global challenges and help address and alleviate them where possible. Over the years, Columbia Global Centers | Amman has become a hub on forced migration and displacement at both an academic and policy level. The Center has deepened engagement with local partners, international organizations, regional universities, and the Jordanian government to facilitate knowledge exchange between academia and practitioners. Through a multidisciplinary approach and a range of initiatives, we have supported the development of local capacity in research and data collection to address operational agencies’ programming and advocacy needs to inform policy recommendations. Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Photo Slide 2: DART Slide 3: Photo Slide 4: Photo Previous Next Expand all Collapse all Women Advancing Solutions in Policy Implementation, Research, and Engagement for Refugees (Women ASPIRE) In partnership with The University of Jordan, the Institute for Family Health, and the International Rescue Committee, the Center conducted a research study aimed to understand the gendered health and mental health concerns of Syrian refugee women living in non-camp urban settings throughout Jordan. It involved a cross-sectional survey distributed to hundreds of women over a period of six months, in which the findings informed intervention approaches and policies to develop comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services, and improve health outcomes for Syrian refugee women in Jordan. The study was spearheaded by leading faculty at Columbia’s School of Social Work including Nabila El-Bassel, University Professor and Willma and Albert Musher Professor of Social Work; Neeraj Kaushal, Professor of Social Policy; and Anindita Dasgupta, Postdoctoral Research Scientist. More information here. In My Own Hands: A Medium-Term Approach Towards Self-Reliance and Resilience of Syrian Refugees and Host Communities in Jordan As refugee assistance programs adapted to address medium- and longer-term needs, this research project explored how Syrian refugees’ self-reliance can be fostered to promote resilience and social cohesion with host communities. The project, led by Monette Zard, Allan Rosenfield Associate Professor of Forced Migration and Health and Director of the Program on Forced Migration and Health at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, explored lessons learned and ways forward for Syrian refugees’ protracted displacement in Jordan. The research report highlights areas where strategic investments in policy and practice can be made to ensure that refugee access to education, livelihoods, and social assistance can be leveraged to address the needs of vulnerable populations and ensure better lives for all. A sustainable refugee response was crafted that strengthens national systems to support the self reliance and resilience of both displaced Syrians and host communities. The project was done in collaboration with the Durable Solutions Platform and the Program on Forced Migration and Health at Columbia University. “Self-reliance is the true essence, for a human to feel himself and feel stability – if I’d rely on you and I wouldn’t know when you’d cut aid from me, I wouldn’t be prepared. I wouldn’t be prepared psychologically, I’d be frustrated, because the decision would be yours, so I want my decision to be mine, in my own hands, the decision of my children – how to feed them, how to dress them, how to pay my rent.” Syrian refugee man in East Amman Research Report Learn more about this project from Monette Zard, Director of the Program on Forced Migration and Health at Columbia University. Workshop for Journalists on Early Childhood Development, Trauma, and Resilience In collaboration with the Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma at Columbia Journalism School, the Amman Center held a training workshop in January 2019 designed to build capacity for journalists covering the Syrian refugee crisis and response and to illustrate real life experiences bringing to light stories that desperately need to be told, heard, and seen. The four-day workshop, led by Bruce Shapiro, Executive Director of the Dart Center, brought together 22 journalists from 16 different countries including correspondents from TV and radio reporters, photojournalists, newspaper reporters, and multimedia journalists. Workshop participants told stories of displaced people who witnessed war and examined the impact of conflict on refugee children and reporters alike. The workshop deepened participants’ understanding about the neuroscience of adversity and trauma, and provided them with tools on how to report on children in distress and help them thrive under stressful situations. Many of the participating journalists have lived in situations of conflict, and therefore presented their personal experiences when reporting on similar refugee crises. A keynote speech was delivered by Her Royal Highness Princess Rym Ali JN ‘94, Founder of the Jordan Media Institute. More information here Health Status and Reproductive Health among Postpartum Syrian Refugee Women in Jordan This project, spearheaded by Jennifer Dohrn, Associate Professor of Nursing at Columbia University Medical Center, examined the health status, reproductive health knowledge, attitudes, and practices of postpartum Syrian refugee women who live outside of formal camps in host communities across Jordan. The aim was to better understand the health needs and reproductive health practices of these women for the purpose of sharing recommendations and informing policy directions to provide reproductive health services more reflective of their voices and responsive to their needs. The project was carried out in partnership with the schools of nursing at Columbia University and the University of Jordan. Research Report Listen to Jennifer Dohrn, Associate Professor of Nursing at Columbia University Medical Center, talk about this project. Illness and Urban Displacement: Addressing the Needs of Refugees with Non-Communicable Diseases A qualitative study was undertaken to provide an overview of the healthcare experience of Syrian refugees with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) residing in Jordan. The study paid specific attention to urban refugees’ personal perspectives about illness, approaches to healthcare decision making, operational barriers faced while accessing care, reflections on healthcare quality, and methods for coping with challenges of healthcare access and quality. Findings of the research study were presented at Columbia Global Centers | Amman by Dr. Fouad Fouad, Assistant Professor of Public Health Practice at the American University of Beirut, and Zahirah McNatt, Senior Research Associate at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health. Results were discussed to foster dialogue among stakeholders about how to improve the accessibility and quality of NCD services for refugees in non-camp settings. The study was a collaborative effort among Columbia Global Centers | Amman, International Rescue Committee in Jordan, and the Department of Population and Family Health at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University. Research Report Mellon Fellowship Program Refugee scholars face specific challenges that often limit the advancement of their academic work and inhibit their positive contribution to the scholarly community in host countries and around the world. In partnership with the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Columbia Global Centers | Amman established the Mellon Fellowship Program to support emerging displaced scholars and create opportunities for them to reintegrate into academia and resume their scholarly pursuits. The program offers 12-month fellowships for up to 25 emerging displaced scholars working in the humanities and humanistic social sciences, over a period of four years. These scholars are PhD students and post-doctoral fellows who were forcibly uprooted from their home countries and respective academic institutions for reasons related to the emergence of security concerns and armed conflict. The program involves a mentorship component whereby each fellow is matched with a relevant faculty member at Columbia University who helps them plan academic activities, conduct research and identify research sources, establish a professional peer network, and publish their work. Mentors are there to help scholars successfully navigate the journey through the fellowship program, and to inspire and guide them to reach their full potential in a supportive environment where they learn the essential methodologies, concepts, and wider context of their discipline. The program is meant to generate the conditions to accelerate the development of emerging scholars’ work and research by providing them with access to educational resources, building their professional networks, harnessing their expertise, and promoting them as an asset to the global academic community. It serves to nurture fellows in a scholarly ecosystem and provide additional or alternative pathways to advance their research and help them embark on viable career paths in academia or other sectors serving the public good. More information about the Fellowship is available here. Columbia Displaced Persons Scholarship Program The United Nations (UN) estimates that more than 70 million people are currently living as refugees or asylum-seekers, or have been internally displaced due to wars and natural calamity – the largest such population in human history. A significant number of these individuals have had their education interrupted, severely impacting their potential for future success. The Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students (CUSDS) is an effort to combat this unprecedented humanitarian and economic loss by providing displaced students with the opportunity to pursue higher education at Columbia University, one of the leading educational institutions in the world. More information and how to apply is available here. Social Work with Refugees and Displaced Persons: Global and Jordan Experience The Columbia School of Social Work brought 16 students to Amman in 2018 and 2019 to provide an opportunity for students to gain knowledge and skills through a comprehensive study of Jordan’s experience with emergency response, assessing the unique culture, political and economic climate and humanitarian response practices. The course addressed barriers to economic opportunities, quality education and access to essential services affecting urban refugees in Jordan. Students analyzed social policies in the fields of health, education, employment, housing, livelihoods, and social work among others. Faculty: Mashura Akilova Prevention Measures and Management of COVID-19 in Refugee Settings: Global and Local Perspectives Columbia Global Centers | Amman, in partnership with Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health's Program on Forced Migration and Health and UNHCR MENA, held a special webinar to discuss policy responses to COVID-19 in refugee contexts in Jordan and Lebanon, and how support continues to reach people most in need. The rate of increase in cases of COVID-19 is becoming greater in all parts of the world. As many countries are adopting containment strategies, enforcing months of lockdowns and intensifying medical battles to save coronavirus patients, the everyday social and economic patterns of societies are being dramatically disrupted. Such disruptions are exacerbated for refugees and forcibly displaced people who live in overcrowded settings, and who are already experiencing difficulty accessing healthcare and support services. Humanitarian actors are also faced with the challenge of containing and mitigating the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic across this most vulnerable community, and are advocating for their inclusion in national prevention and mitigation efforts. During these unprecedented times, we must not lose sight of the impact of the pandemic on refugees and forcibly displaced people. As host governments and international aid groups are trying to figure out how best to move forward, there exists a clear gap when it comes to concrete evidence about the impact of COVID-19 on refugees, particularly those in urban settings, outside of refugee camps. Related News July 15, 2021 Columbia College Student Researching Migration Issues in Light of Chile’s Constitutional Rewrite Tags Servicio Jesuita a Migrantes Astrid Liden Laidlaw Program Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships Santiago Center Stories Santiago Education October 23, 2019 Monette Zard on improving self-reliance and building resilience of Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan Monette Zard directs the Forced Migration and Health Program and is associate professor of Population and Family Health. Tags Amman Center Stories: Faculty CGC Stories: Faculty Refugee Crisis Amman Research July 23, 2018 Call for Papers: “Pluralisms in Emergenc(i)es: Movement, Space, and Religious Difference” – Tunis Tags Tunis Research Global Themes: International and Public Affairs news May 30, 2018 Discussion on Regional Refugee Crises and the Role of Academia and the Official Signing of the MoU between UNHCR and Columbia Global Centers | Amman On May 30, 2018, UNHCR’s Regional Director for MENA, Mr. Amin Awad and the Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University, Professor Safwan M. Masri, officially signed a Memorandum of Understanding and open a new chapter in collaborative efforts between UNHCR and Columbia Global Centers | Amman. Tags Amman Research February 21, 2018 Call for Papers: “Pluralisms in Emergenc(i)es: Movement, Space, and Religious Difference” – Tunis The Institute for Religion, Culture & Public Life and Columbia Global Centers are organizing a conference entitled "Pluralism(s) in Emergencies: Movement, Space, and Religious Difference" in Tunis, Tunisia on July 11-12, 2018. The project is being organized with support from the Department of Culture Studies and Oriental Languages (IKOS) at the University of Oslo; and the Centre for Religion, Conflict, and Globalization at the University of Groningen. Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Just Societies July 23, 2017 الأردن يستضيف قمة تجمع قادة التمريض والقبالة عمان - يجتمع قادة التمريض والقبالة من إقليمي جنوب وشرق أفريقيا وشرق المتوسط في القمة الثالثة والأخيرة في الاردن خلال يومي 24 و25 تموز الحالي لمناقشة أولويات الأبحاث السريرية التي تساهم في تطوير سياسات فعالة وتحديد آليات تطوير الرعاية الصحية على المستويين الإقليمي والعالمي في ضوء أزمة اللاجئين والاحتياجات الصحية المتزايدة Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Just Societies July 21, 2017 Global nursing, midwifery summit to be held in Amman July 24-25 AMMAN — A global nursing and midwifery summit, to be held in Amman on July 24-25, will address large global health disparities and the development of a robust nursing and midwifery profession, a critical goal in regions with challenged human resources for healthcare services, a statement by the organisers said. Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Columbia Commitments: Precision Medicine Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Global Themes: Health and Medicine news June 08, 2017 President’s Global Innovation Fund 2017 Provost John H. Coatsworth has announced the fifth round of grants from the President’s Global Innovation Fund (PGIF) on June 1, 2017. 11 projects received awards this year after being selected by a review committee of senior faculty drawn from both the Morningside and medical campuses. Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Arts and Ideas Columbia Commitments: Climate Response Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Columbia Commitments: Future of Neuroscience Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Columbia Commitments: Precision Medicine April 18, 2017 Higher Education for Refugees by Professor Bruce Usher and Kim Gittleson In 1940, a young refugee named Arno Penzias fled Nazi-controlled Germany and settled in New York City. He went on to study at the City College of New York and Columbia University, where he received a Ph.D. in physics in 1962. Tags Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies April 12, 2017 The Evolving Visa and Border Regime by Elizabeth Redden President Trump has said he wants “extreme vetting” and ideological testing of visa applicants. What will that look like, exactly? As American colleges wait to hear whether accepted applicants will take up their admission offers for the fall, what can they expect students who are coming from other countries to encounter when they apply for visas and when they show up at border security checkpoints at U.S. airports? Tags Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Just Societies March 23, 2017 Columbia Global Centers | Amman 2016-2017 Annual Report is now available online Tags Amman Education Amman Research Amman Public February 10, 2017 The Lucky Few: a historical perspective on migration with Professor Robert Young We went into the vault for today’s episode, all the way back to a lecture that Professor Robert Young gave last year at the Columbia Global Center in Amman. We chose this particular lecture because Professor Young offers a historical perspective on an issue facing today’s society: migration. Tags Amman Education Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Just Societies February 10, 2017 The Lucky Few: a historical perspective on migration with Professor Robert Young We went into the vault for today’s episode, all the way back to a lecture that Professor Robert Young gave last year at the Columbia Global Center in Amman. We chose this particular lecture because Professor Young offers a historical perspective on an issue facing today’s society: migration. Tags Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies January 29, 2017 Bollinger condemns Trump’s immigration ban as “discriminatory, damaging” University President Lee Bollinger denounced President Donald Trump's executive order banning immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim nations from entering the United States and advised community members and visitors from the designated countries to postpone international travel. Tags Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Amman Education December 15, 2016 Refugee Crisis Reveals Critical Gaps in Support for Millions Fleeing Conflict “As the world faces the worst humanitarian disaster since the Second World War, the refugee crisis demands a new level of response from our institutions,” says Professor Safwan Masri, Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University and Director of Columbia Global Centers | Amman. Tags Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Amman Research October 13, 2016 Refugee Integration: Developing a New Paradigm Columbia Global Centers | Amman and Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul are organizing a workshop and public panel on campus on October 13-14, 2016 that will bring together Columbia faculty in mutual conversations with practitioners from the Middle East. Tags Amman Research Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Just Societies September 21, 2016 Exploring a Region in Transition as Change Sweeps the Middle East Historic waves of migration, unprecedented digital activism, challenges to religious pluralism: amid all of these developments in the Middle East, Columbia Global Centers – Columbia University’s network of eight education and learning centers around the world – are exploring the implications of these changes on culture, health and safety, and politics in the region. Tags Amman Research Amman Education Amman Public September 15, 2016 World leaders must do more to educate refugee children, say top academics and influencers We, 20 leading academics and influencers from across the world, have joined forces today in an open letter to world leaders - asking that they do more to ensure refugees obtain an education. Tags Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Just Societies September 13, 2016 Redefining a University’s Role for a World in Crisis NEW YORK, Sept. 13, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- "With civil conflict, terrorist threats, and major health crises causing unprecedented disruption in communities all over the world, universities must step up to a new level of globalism in our outlook and in our activities," says Professor Safwan M. Masri, Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University. Tags Amman Public Amman Education Amman Research August 31, 2016 University of Jordan and Columbia University to Cooperate on Refugees The University of Jordan (UJ) President, Prof. Azmi Mahafzah received in his office on Tuesday an academic delegate from Columbia University (CU), New York, to discuss a joint academic project on refugees. Tags Amman Education Albert Fishlow Columbia Commitments: Data and Society July 19, 2016 Nursing experts discuss regional healthcare challenges in Amman Recognising the role of nurses as the “backbone” of the healthcare system, leaders in the profession are examining the needs and challenges of nurses in the region. Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Columbia Commitments: Data and Society July 18, 2016 Global Nursing and Midwifery Clinical Research Development Initiative Columbia Global Centers | Amman will host the Global Nursing and Midwifery Clinical Research Development Initiative on July 18-19, 2016. Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Data and Society July 12, 2016 Jordan to host global nursing, midwifery summit Jordan will host experts from 22 countries for a global nursing and midwifery summit on Monday under the patronage of HRH Princess Muna, organisers said. The summit is the initiative of the Columbia Global Centres in Amman and New York’s Columbia University School of Nursing. Tags Amman Research Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Global Themes: Health and Medicine news July 06, 2016 Global summit aims to develop sustainable network to support nursing and midwifery clinical research On July 18-19, 2016, Columbia Global Centers | Amman and Columbia University School of Nursing will host the Global Nursing and Midwifery Clinical Research Development Initiative in Amman, Jordan. Experts from approximately 22 countries in the Eastern Mediterranean region will meet to identify, prioritize, and gain consensus on how to address critical regional health needs. Tags Amman Research Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Global Themes: Health and Medicine news May 17, 2016 Columbia Global Centers | Amman 2015 Annual Report is now available online Tags Amman Public Amman Research Amman Education May 09, 2016 2015-2016 Speaker Series The Amman Center hosts regular public talks for members of the local community to engage with scholars and learn more about a wide range of topics, from current affairs, to history, to the arts. Tags Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Data and Society May 06, 2016 President's Global Innovation Fund 2016 Results for the fourth President’s Global Innovation Fund (PGIF) round this year were announced on May 6, 2016. Tags Amman Research Amman Public Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Data and Society April 26, 2016 Beyond the Rhetoric of False Choices: The Case for Lasting U.S. Engagement in the Middle East - A Talk by Ambassador Alice Wells During the most tumultuous period the region has experienced in decades, the U.S. relationship with the Middle East has been the subject of intense interest and debate. Ambassador Wells made the case for why U.S. interests in the Middle East transcend the profound current challenges, and discussed how America’s national interests demand continued and deepened engagement with the region. Tags Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies December 14, 2015 Save the Date: International Legal Dialogue—Middle East North Africa The Columbia Global Centers | Middle East, Columbia Law School, and the American Society of International Law are holding a conference on the theme “International Legal Dialogue—Middle East North Africa” on December 14 - 15, 2015. Tags Amman Research Amman Public October 20, 2015 Syria’s Refugee Crisis: Public Health Challenges In March 2011, pro-democracy protests erupted in Syria. Violent conflict between demonstrators and government forces spiraled into what is now, four and a half years later, a civil war that has killed more than 200,000 people and forced more than 4 million people to flee the country, with millions more families displaced inside Syria’s borders. Tags Amman Research October 08, 2015 Columbia's global center strategy prioritizes engagement over NYU's 'one-way exchange of knowledge' Columbia and New York University may both lead the pack when it comes to developing a presence abroad, but they have markedly distinct ideologies that have informed their global campus footprints. Tags Amman Education August 18, 2015 The Role of Local Government in Addressing the Impact of Syrian Refugees: Jordan Case Study Nearly 4 million refugees have fled the war in Syria to date, and most are being hosted by neighboring states, in areas which already face significant economic and social challenges. Tags Amman Education Amman Research Related Events Feb10Wed Walter Benjamin, and other Illegal Migrants - A Talk by Robert Young Columbia Global Centers | Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Oct13Thu Strengthening Refugee Access, Equity and Inclusion: Developing a New Framework New York 12:00 PM - 7:00 PM Dec6Wed Pluralism in Emergenc(i)es: Movement, Space, and Religious Difference Columbia Global Centers | Amman 9:45 AM - 4:00 PM Mar7Wed Improving Refugee Access to Resettlement and Complementary Pathways Columbia Global Centers | Amman 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM Apr4Wed An Update from War-torn Yemen: A Talk by Farea Al-Muslimi - Wednesday April 4, 2018 Columbia Global Centers | Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Apr25Wed A Strategic Shift to Meet the Needs of all Vulnerable Children in Jordan - A Talk by Robert Jenkins Columbia Global Centers | Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM May6Sun A Model International Mobility Convention: Rights and Governance for Migrants and Refugees - A Talk by Michael Doyle Columbia Global Centers | Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Jan29Tue Illness and Urban Displacement: Addressing the Needs of Refugees with Noncommunicable Diseases 9:00 AM - 1:00 PM May1Wed Forced Migration to Jordan: A Humanitarian Response 7:00 PM - 8:00 PM Nov17Sun Women ASPIRE | Understanding and Addressing Physical Health and Mental Health Concerns of Syrian Refugee Women in Jordan Columbia Global Centers | Amman 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM Feb6Thu Report Launch and Expert Discussion: A Medium-Term Approach towards Self-Reliance and Resilience of Syrian Refugees and Host Communities in Jordan Columbia Global Centers | Amman 9:00 AM - 12:30 PM Apr21Tue Prevention Measures and Management of COVID-19 in Refugee Settings: Global and Local Perspectives Zoom Webinar 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM Show Map Go to Website Register on CU Events Register Add to Calendar Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo There are no events to show with the selected date. There are no events to show.See current events Filter Events By Keyword filter: Show all dates Past Events All past events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close