Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Global Health Global Health promotes university-wide interdisciplinary approaches to address issues related to health and well-being in North Carolina and around the world. Uniting multidisciplinary research with veterinary education to solve some of today’s greatest global health challenges. Uniting multidisciplinary research with veterinary education to solve some of today’s greatest global health challenges. Global Health is both housed in the Office of Global Engagement as well as in NC State’s College of Veterinary Medicine. Global Health @ CVM Global Health Minor Enrollment Numbers On The Rise In fall 2021, a total of 87 undergraduate students enrolled in the minor. This is an 112% increase from the previous spring semester. The Global Health minor provides undergraduate students with an appreciation of interdisciplinary approaches to addressing global health needs. Under the leadership of Dr. Julie Casani (Director of Student Health Services, and Adjunct Associate Professor, Biological Sciences, NC State), the minor provides opportunities for students to make connections between topics in their major fields of study and global health challenges, and to develop interdisciplinary approaches to addressing global health needs. Feel free to reach out to Dr. Casani (jppierso@ncsu.edu) in case of questions about the minor. The Oath Magazine Solving today’s greatest global health challenges takes sterling vision, extraordinary thinkers and sheer determination. Offered by the Department of Biological Sciences, the Global Health Minor is available to all baccalaureate degree students at North Carolina State University. This minor is especially appropriate for (but not limited to) students majoring in the life sciences, social sciences, engineering, and international studies. Learn More Contact Sid Thakur, director of global health at the CVM and NC State with Megan Jacob, associate professor of microbiology and director of the CVM’s diagnostic laboratories. Photo by John Joyner/NC State Veterinary Medicine For more information about the Global Health minor or any other inquiries, please contact Dr. Siddhartha “Sid” Thakur, Department of Population Health and Pathobiology, Director of Global Health. Email: sthakur@ncsu.edu Why global health matters Q&A: Director Sid Thakur on How NC State’s Global Health Program is Changing the World Read more Multi-Model Approach Could Help Farmers Prepare for, Contain PEDV Outbreaks Read more Stepping Back To See Antimicrobial Resistance’s Big Picture Read more Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.