Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Enhancing Wellness with Emotional Intelligence: Session 4 - Stress Management Events Past Event Enhancing Wellness with Emotional Intelligence: Session 4 - Stress Management Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Enhancing Wellness with Emotional Intelligence: Session Four - Stress Management May 25, 2022 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM Online Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi Life as we knew it took a dramatic turn in early 2020 due to COVID-19. The pandemic disrupted life, affecting citizens' social, economic, and health fabric worldwide. People were forced to adapt to a new way of living, such as working remotely and dealing with loss and grief arising from the death of a loved one, among others. These circumstances brought about distress, a situation that needs to be addressed. It, therefore, becomes paramount that people are equipped with coping mechanisms to deal with the various life stressors that have arisen from the pandemic and life generally. One such strategy is improving an individual's emotional intelligence (EQ) capabilities. In partnership with Albert Migowa, Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi introduced a series that intends to cover diverse topics on EQ to help members of the general population cope and adapt to life in the 21st Century, particularly with the challenges presented by the pandemic. The first part of this series was held in November 2021 and covered "What is Emotional Intelligence?" (watch the video here), where we defined and delineated the concept. The second part, held in March 2022, covered "Self-Awareness" (watch the video here), while the third part, held in April 2022, covered Self- Regulation (watch the video here). This upcoming session will delve deeper into Stress Management. In the pipeline are sessions that will run till October on other subject areas such as Resilience, Self-Care, Time Management, Decisiveness, Critical Thinking, and Mansplaining. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bio Albert Migowa Albert Migowa is a trained Counseling Psychologist. As a Psychologist, he is able to understand the emotions and feelings of people thereby able to communicate effectively. Additionaly, Albert is a counselor with the Red Cross. Albert has been involved in Mental health projects with nationwide profiles. Some of these projects have been supported by UNICEF, Danish Redcross, Nairobi Metropolitan Service (NMS), European Union, University of Maryland, Ministry of Health (MOH) African Medical Research Foundation (AMREF) and United States Aid Agency (USAID), through Afya Jijini programme. Currently, Albert is an Emotional Intelligence Facilitator. He is a member of Six Seconds Emotional Intelligence Network. To date, Albert has facilitated sessions for over 500 individuals. Key institutions and Organisations, where Emotional Intelligence sessions have been held include Emerging Leaders foundation, Kamiti Maximum Prison, Siasa Place, Internet Society-Kenya Chapter, Rotaract Langata, Kenya Red Cross, Awareness 360, Coderina, the National Youth Council (NYC) and Kenya National Commission of UNESCO among others. Other roles: Member-National Committee Global Council for the Promotion of International Trade, Kenya. Youth lead-Kenya adolescent health toolkit Trainer-Advocating for adolescent health, Ministry of Health Member-Global Financial Facility CSO forum Member-National committee STEM4PEACE, Global peace foundation& CEMASTEA. Chairman-Public Relations and Communication, Internet Society Kenya. Mentor-Presidential Digitalent Programme, ICT Authority Mentor-Emerging Leaders Foundation Women champion-Facebook developer circles, Nairobi Outstanding judge- Nairobi Innovation week 2019 Member- Atlassian User Group Nairobi Certified Microsoft Innovative Educator Certified Google digital skills trainer. Certified Social Intrapreneur- Ashoka Changemakers Speaker's Bio Susan W. Gitau Dr. Susan W. Gitau is a counseling psychologist, certified mediator, training of trainers expert, trauma counseling specialist, peace and security and gender advisor, researcher and motivational speaker. Dr. Gitau also lectures in counseling psychology, clinical practice, multicultural and trauma counseling. Dr. Gitau is the Director of International Professional Counselors Centre - Kenya, the Kiambu County Chairperson and Senior Supervisor in the Kenya Counseling & Psychological Association and she is also a Certified Professional Mediator of the Kenya & East African Standby Force (AU). Dr. Susan Gitau is the founder and trustee of the Susan Gitau Counseling Foundation. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close