Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Quality Journalism: Threats and Opportunities Events Past Event Quality Journalism: Threats and Opportunities Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 3, 2021 5:00 PM - 6:00 PM Zoom Show Map On World Press Freedom Day, on May 3, Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul and International Press Institute, founded at Columbia University in 1950, will host a webinar on “Quality Journalism: Threats and Opportunities” with distinguished speakers. This event will focus on freedom of the press and independent media, and there will be simultaneous translation into Turkish and English during the event. 3 Mayıs Dünya Basın Özgürlüğü Günü’nde, Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul ve 1950 yılında Columbia Üniversitesi’nde kurulan Uluslararası Basın Enstitüsü (IPI) ile ortak düzenlediğimiz “Nitelikli Gazetecilik: Sınırlar ve Fırsatlar” başlıklı webinarımıza davetlisiniz. Basın özgürlüğünün ve bağımsız medyanın durumunun ele alınacağı etkinlikte eş zamanlı çeviri hizmeti sağlanacaktır. What will be discussed during this webinar? - How did political, social, and technological developments in the past 70 years impact journalism in Turkey and the world? - How do Turkey's news media outlets cope with press freedom violations and the ongoing business model crisis? - What are the impacts, reach, and needs of Turkey's independent media in the age of global platforms? - What is the future of news media? What are the threats and opportunities for journalism and the public good? Webinarda Neler Konuşulacak? - Türkiye'de ve dünyada 70 yılı aşkın süredir yaşanan siyasi, toplumsal ve teknolojik gelişmeler gazeteciliği nereden alıp nereye getirdi? - Basın özgürlüğü ihlallerinden, dijitalleşmeyle beraber yaşanan iş modeli krizine dek zorluklar Türkiye'de medyayı nasıl etkiliyor? - Küresel platformlar çağında Türkiye'de bağımsız medyanın etkisi, erişimi ve ihtiyaçları neler? Dünya medyası nereye gidiyor? - Gazetecilik ve kamu yararı için geleceğin fırsatları nerede, sınırlar nasıl şekilleniyor? Speakers: Faruk Bildirici started journalism in Cumhuriyet Newspaper in 1980. He worked as a martial law and education correspondent during the 12 September military period, and later as a reporter for the Prime Ministry, ANAP, and the parliament. He moved to Hürriyet Newspaper in October 1992. While working as a news manager in Ankara, he also worked on article series; he wrote portraits and interviews. He served as the Reader Representative (Ombudsman) of Hürriyet newspaper for nine years. Since he was laid off from Hürriyet on May 4, 2019, he has been writing media criticisms as "Media ombudsman" on his own website. Most recently, his book, "The Ombudsman of Media: The Media of the Palace" was published. Emre Kizilkaya is the vice president of the national committee for the Vienna-based International Press Institute (IPI), and the project editor of Journo, a non-profit news platform supported by Turkey's Journalists' Union (TGS) and the EU. He worked for the daily Hurriyet from 2003 to 2019 in various roles, including the head of digital content. He was selected by Harvard University for Knight Visiting Nieman Fellowship in 2019. In his career, Kizilkaya received multiple awards from professional organizations, including the Turkish Journalists’ Association (TGC) and the International News Media Association (INMA). He is pursuing a Ph.D. study at Galatasaray University. Minez Bayülgen was born in 1986 in Hamburg, Germany. She studied Journalism and Mass Communication at Florida International University (FIU). Bayülgen worked as a reporter at Diken for 3 years and produced content for different media outlets as a freelancer. In 2020, she co-founded a daily newsletter called Kapsül News, where she works as editor-in-chief. Scott Griffen is deputy director at the International Press Institute (IPI), a global network of editors, publishers, and journalists defending press freedom since 1950. He is the author of numerous IPI reports on diverse topics related to press freedom and independent journalism and has led or participated in dozens of IPI press freedom missions around the world. Griffen comments regularly on issues related to press freedom and media pluralism in international media. He holds degrees from Yale University and King’s College London. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close