Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Scholarships & Finances Scholarships & Finances EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs At The University of Tulsa, study abroad is a realistic, affordable opportunity for all students. For most students the cost of semester or summer study abroad is equivalent to what they pay at TU – and sometimes even cheaper. TU has a generous financial aid policy which allows TU scholarships to apply to study abroad tuition. Whether you are a Presidential Scholar or are receiving one of the many other TU scholarships you will be able to apply these to your semester abroad. Students may also use loans to cover several study abroad-related expenses such as airfare and visa fees. Students should talk with their financial aid advisor in the Office of Student Financial Services to discuss which scholarships will apply to their program abroad. To help students and families better understand and plan for the costs of study abroad, the Center for Global Engagement has draft budgets posted for most programs so that students can understand the full cost of their experience abroad. If a budget is not provided, please ask your study abroad advisor for a copy of the program’s budget. Financing Summer Study Abroad Just as most students do not receive scholarships during the summer months, most scholarships do not cover the cost of summer study abroad programs. While some outside scholarships are available they are generally limited. For this reason, students should plan on paying the full-cost of their summer experience abroad. In some cases this means that a summer experience costs more than a full semester long program. Scholarships are available for students who must study abroad during the summer because of their academic program, athletic involvement, or scholarship requirements. Financing Short-Term Study Abroad Scholarships are available for students who must study abroad during the summer because of their academic program, athletic involvement, or scholarship requirements. Additional Scholarships and Awards The Center for Global Engagement as well as many study abroad providers and outside organizations provide scholarships and awards to support students going abroad. Students should discuss financial concerns with their study abroad advisor and check program provider websites for available scholarships. EXPLORE SCHOLARSHIPS CGE Scholarships External Scholarships Financial Policies for Students Participating in Study Abroad Study abroad financial policies. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT