Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Getting Started Getting Started EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs We are excited that you are interested in going abroad! Whether you want to go abroad for a summer, semester or year to take classes or pursue a research, internship or service learning experience, the first step is to explore the CGE list of approved programs. Search for semester programs, summer programs, or browse all programs. As you explore the approved programs, we encourage you to spend time thinking about your unique personal and academic, professional and cultural goals for your time abroad. With some research, self-reflection and goal definition, you can find the program that best fits your needs. It is also important to discuss your desire to study abroad with your faculty or collegiate adviser early in the process. He or she can assist you in determining what courses abroad will be most appropriate for your specific degree requirements. HOW TO GET STARTED Study Abroad Checklist CGE Will Help You Along the Way The CGE staff is here to guide you as you learn about the programs, submit your application and get ready to travel! If you have specific questions about what program might be right for your degree plan, e-mail or schedule a meeting with the study abroad advising staff. STAY ON TRACK Study Abroad Checklist Application Process Once you find the right program for you, go to the program page on the CGE website, click on the APPLY NOW button and create an application. It should be completed before the posted deadline. Keep in mind, there are generally two deadlines each year: for ALL spring semester programs, the TU application deadline is October 1st; and for ALL summer, fall and full year programs, the TU application deadline is March 1st. You will need approval from your college, as a part of the application process, in order to get credit for all coursework, including internships, research or independent study, that you plan to take abroad. You will do this through the Course Approval Database. If you have questions about the database or the course approval process you are welcome to come to the CGE to chat with a CGE peer advisor or schedule a meeting with your CGE advisor. Don’t forget that you will also need to complete a second application for the program or host university of your specific study abroad program. Individual study abroad programs have different eligibility requirements and deadlines, so it is always a good idea to pay close attention to program details as they do not necessarily match with TU’s requirements. Pre-Departure Preparation After you’ve been accepted into your program and conditionally approved to study abroad by TU, it is time to prepare to go abroad! You will have a mandatory final advising meeting with your program’s study abroad advisor to discuss a study abroad budget, visas, immunization requirements, and any other concerns you have. Refer to the program materials you received in your acceptance packet from the host program or school and its website to learn about the pre-departure steps that you need to take. Students are required to participate in an online pre-departure orientation and attend a pre-departure meeting in preparation for their abroad program. During the orientation, they will hear from CGE staff and study abroad returnees. Completion is mandatory for final approval to study abroad. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT