Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources International Travel MOU Guidelines Funding Menu AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources– International Travel – MOU Guidelines Harry C. Kelly Memorial Fund for U.S.-Japan Scientific Cooperation Dean Harry C. Kelly and others greeting Japanese visitors. Photo from NC State Libraries’ Digital Collections: Rare and Unique Materials. The purpose of the Kelly Memorial Fund, a major endowment, is to promote better cooperation between the scientific and technical communities of Japan and the United States. The fund supports scholarships and fellowships for exchange students in the sciences and engineering at NC State and for study of the Japanese language. Funding can also be used to support faculty travel to Japan as well as exchanges for joint research relating to technology, engineering and Japanese language programs. Created by the NC Japan Center in 1985, the fund memorializes efforts established by Harry C. Kelly, former Provost and Vice Chancellor of NC State from 1967-1974, who was an outstanding ambassador to Japanese science. Purpose The primary goal of the program is to assist NC State faculty in developing relationships that will lead to further exchange and collaboration with the country of Japan. Estimated Number of Awards and Anticipated Funding Amount Approximately $15,000 will be available annually for awards. Awards typically range between $2,500 and $3,750, with an average of 4 – 6 awards per year. Cost Match A minimum 25% cost match is preferred from internal or external sources and should be included in the total project budget. Internal sources may be college and/or department support. Review Criteria Each proposal will undergo an internal review based on the following criteria: Potential for future exchange and collaboration: The prospects for establishing long-term relationships and programs are high and clearly defined. Appropriate and justified budget: To leverage funds, a documented cost match of at least 25% is preferred. Qualifications: The technical merit of the proposal is clearly defined and reinforced by a letter of support and/or cost sharing. Application Instructions The Harry C. Kelly Memorial Fund, managed by the NC Japan Center, is purposed to support NC State faculty in forming and strengthening lasting partnerships in technological and scientific research between NC State and Japan. Proposals for this support are received on a rolling basis. It is recommended that applications be submitted at least three (3) months in advance of the project start. Apply Now NC Japan Center The NC Japan Center provides resources for those interested in furthering academic, cultural or economic relations with Japanese people. Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.