Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Clean Skies Over Our Cities: Lessons from the Covid-19 Lockdown Events Past Event Clean Skies Over Our Cities: Lessons from the Covid-19 Lockdown Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 20, 2020 6:30 PM - 8:30 PM Online Time: 6:30 pm (India) | 1:00 pm (GMT) | 9:00 am (New York) Can future cities have cleaner skies? The disruption of human activities during the recent coronavirus lockdown has enabled us to imagine the possibility of a world with improved air quality. The panel will bring together scientists working in China, India, and Kenya who will discuss the status of air pollution during this period of industrial slowdown and reduced emissions, as well as analyze the opportunities for long-term gains. Drawing from their research, they will deliberate upon pathways for strategic implementation of clean-air policies and practices in energy management, consumer choice, and school and healthcare systems. Panelists: ● V. Faye McNeill, Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, Columbia University ● Daniel Westervelt, Associate Research Scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University ● Arlene M. Fiore, Professor, Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Columbia University Moderator: ● Ravina Aggarwal, Director of Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai About the Speakers: V. Faye McNeill is a Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering at Columbia University, where she is the Chair of the Undergraduate Program. She joined Columbia in 2007 and received tenure in 2014. As a Professor and researcher in Columbia, she and her research group are using the results of their work to improve large-scale models of atmospheric chemistry and climate, thereby enhancing their prognostic ability, providing insight into the effects of human activity on the environment, and setting the stage for smart policy decisions. In 2009, she received the NSF CAREER and the ACS Petroleum Research Fund Doctoral New Investigator awards. She was also the recipient of the Kenneth T. Whitby Award of AAAR in 2015. She is an Associate Editor for ACS Earth and Space Chemistry. Professor McNeill completed her PhD in chemical engineering from MIT in 2005, where she was a NASA Earth System Science Fellow. Dr. Daniel Westervelt, Associate Research Scientist at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Goddard Institute for Space Studies, has more than a decade of experience working at the intersection of air pollution, climate change, and atmospheric chemistry using physical modeling, remote sensing, and surface measurement approaches. Westervelt and his group lead projects on air pollution data collection, climate modeling, and training and capacity building in seven sub-Saharan African cities. His projects have been funded by the National Science Foundation and the United States Department of State. He also serves as a US Department of State supporting Air Quality scientist for Congo-Kinshasa, Congo-Brazzaville, and Accra. Dr. Westervelt received his PhD in Environmental Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University and did his postdoctoral work at Princeton University. Arlene M. Fiore is a professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Columbia University. Her research on tropospheric chemistry includes a focus on the two-way interactions between air pollution and climate change. Her research group analyzes ground-based, aircraft, and satellite observations alongside models to study the processes controlling air pollution on scales ranging from urban to global and daily to decadal. For the past decade, Professor Fiore was a Principal Investigator with the NASA Air Quality and Applied Sciences and Health and Air Quality Applied Sciences Teams. She has served on the Board on Atmospheric Sciences and Climate of the National Academy of Sciences and on the Steering Committee for the IGAC/SPARC Chemistry-Climate Modeling Initiative. She has co-authored more than 100 peer reviewed papers and is a recipient of the American Geophysical Union’s Macelwane medal. She completed her Ph.D. degree in year 2003 in Earth and Planetary Sciences from Harvard University. Ravina Aggarwal has been the Director of the Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai since 2015. She is a sociocultural anthropologist with a doctoral degree from Indiana University in 1994. Dr. Aggarwal taught in the Department of Anthropology at Smith College, where she became a tenured faculty member. Her research is based on extensive fieldwork in the Himalayas and her areas of study and teaching included political anthropology, peace-building, cultural studies, gender, and development. Prior to joining the Mumbai Center, Dr. Aggarwal worked at the Ford Foundation’s New Delhi office from 2007-2015, where she was responsible for strategic planning and grant-making for programs on development, social justice and public policy, with a focus on the fields of education, media and information technology, and arts and culture. She serves on the Advisory Board of the Mumbai-based Urban Design Research Institute and is one of the two founders of the Ladakh Arts and Media Organisation. Dr. Aggarwal is the author of several publications, including Beyond Lines of Control: Performing the Border in Ladakh, India (Duke University Press, Seagull Books) and the editor of Into the High Ranges (Penguin India) and Forsaking Paradise (Katha). She has recently completed Songbird (forthcoming Zubaan), a mystery novel for young adults set in the Himalayas. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close