Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Supporting Penn research initiatives around the world Penn Global Research & Engagement Grant Program Priorities As part of its mission to promote global engagement in all its forms between the University of Pennsylvania community and the wider world, Penn Global administers a competitive global engagement grant program that provides resources to help faculty and staff undertake a range of research, teaching, service, and other activities with a country, region, or global focus. The grant program consists of four research and engagement funds, through which Penn Global strives to: Develop new insights on key questions, issues, and challenges facing focus countries, regions, and the world at large and position Penn to contribute knowledge that helps to address and respond to them; Promote collaboration and the integration of knowledge across Penn Schools and disciplines; and Strengthen equitable partnerships, promote intellectual exchange, and foster the co-production of knowledge and ideas between Penn and foreign partner scholars, organizations, and institutions. In addition, each fund maintains its own set of priorities. We encourage you to explore the funds and learn how you can partner with Penn Global to expand your research and teaching impact. Explore the Funds Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund News & Insights See All Global Grants Recording of the 2022 Launch Symposium Now Available by Penn Global Read More Global Grants, Africa Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research by Kristen de Groot | Penn Today Read More China, Asia-Pacific, Global Grants Penn Medicine Doctor’s Stroke Film Makes WHO Film Festival Shortlist by Penn Medicine Read More Apply for a Global Research Grant Apply for a Global Convening Grant Manage My Global Grant Additional Resources for Penn Faculty & Staff Penn is committed to supporting its faculty and staff as they work across borders and disciplines to advance their research, teaching, and professional engagements. Explore how we can further partner with you on your global activities. Go Back person General Resources We are dedicated to providing strategic guidance, information, and support to Penn faculty and staff to advance the University's global initiatives. Explore the number of resources and services Penn Global offers. Resources for Penn Faculty Go Back local_airport Global Travel & Operations Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including, but not limited to, the areas of risk, labor, tax, and compliance. Additionally, GSS manages the University's at-risk travel policy. GSS works closely with International Risk Management, Office of General Counsel, and Research Services, among many others to advise and support central organizations, Schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. document_scanner Get Started with Global Support Services local_airport International Travel Guidance coronavirus COVID-19 Travel Guidelines & Procedures Go Back contact_mail Contact Penn Global If you have any questions or feedback regarding any of the funding opportunities highlighted above, please let us know! Contact Penn Global at global@upenn.edu with your inquiry and we will get back to you as quickly as possible. Contact Penn Global Go Back person General Resources We are dedicated to providing strategic guidance, information, and support to Penn faculty and staff to advance the University's global initiatives. Explore the number of resources and services Penn Global offers. Resources for Penn Faculty Go Back local_airport Global Travel & Operations Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including, but not limited to, the areas of risk, labor, tax, and compliance. Additionally, GSS manages the University's at-risk travel policy. GSS works closely with International Risk Management, Office of General Counsel, and Research Services, among many others to advise and support central organizations, Schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. document_scanner Get Started with Global Support Services local_airport International Travel Guidance coronavirus COVID-19 Travel Guidelines & Procedures Go Back contact_mail Contact Penn Global If you have any questions or feedback regarding any of the funding opportunities highlighted above, please let us know! Contact Penn Global at global@upenn.edu with your inquiry and we will get back to you as quickly as possible. Contact Penn Global 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy