Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Class of 2025 Welcome Reception in Beijing Events Past Event Class of 2025 Welcome Reception in Beijing Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 11, 2021 2:30 PM - 6:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Time: 2:30 PM - 6:00 PM (Beijing) 📍 Location: Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Dear Columbia Lions, congratulations and welcome to Columbia! Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Global China Connection - Columbia, a student-run organization for Chinese undergraduate students, invite you to a welcome reception for the Class of 2025 and families. Please join us to meet with your fellow students and to learn more about the University and the Beijing Center. Current student, alumni, and parent representatives will also be in attendance to share with you their stories and experiences and to guide you on how to make the best of your time at Columbia and in New York City. We will also have a special session for Chinese-student-led clubs to present themselves. In addition, we will host breakout sessions and a Social Mixer for Q&A and open discussions. We look forward to seeing you and your parents, and welcome again to the Columbia community! Following the event, there will be a piano recital by Columbia College alumnus Nansong Huang '16 at the Beijing Center from 6 p.m. to 8:40 p.m. We encourage students and parents who love music and art to join. Agenda 2:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Registration 2:30p.m. - 2:45 p.m. Opening Remarks 2:45 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Student Representatives Panel 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Presentations by Alumni Representatives 4:00 p.m. - 4:15 p.m. Intermission 4:15 p.m. - 4:45 p.m. Presentations by Parent Representatives 4:45 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. Club Presentations 5:15 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Social Mixer 5:45 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Closing Remarks 6:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Dinner for Students (optional) 6:00 p.m. - 8:40 p.m. Nansong Huang's Piano Recital (optional) Reminders The event is open to Columbia undergraduates and their parents only; Please register for this event by July 4, 11:59 p.m. (Beijing); Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close