Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. In Latin America & the Caribbean Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support The Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship in Latin America and the Caribbean offers a special opportunity for Penn students to raise awareness of underreported issues in the region through direct support for quality journalism across all media platforms and a unique program of education and public outreach. Made possible by a partnership between Penn and the Pulitzer Center, the international reporting fellowship allows Penn students to join the Pulitzer Center for a minimum of 8-10 weeks to tell an underreported story and gain journalism experience. Fellows include both undergraduate and graduate students, many without prior reporting experience, but with a strong willingness to dive deep into issues by asking questions, unpacking complex topics, and using a variety of media platforms, from written to digital, to share these stories. Apply for the 2022 Fellowship Fellowship Details International reporting fellows will: Tell an underreported story and gain journalism experience Deliver local story pitches and remote reporting (via Zoom, phone, etc.), in addition to international reporting Work closely with editors from the Pulitzer Center on storytelling stratgies, reporting methods, and developing quality journalism Receive a stipend to cover reporting costs and support arranging travel logistics Join the Pulitzer Center network of staff, professional journalists, and Fellow alums Broaden the reach of your reporting with outreach opportunities Go Back how_to_reg Eligibility & Expectations Eligibility All current full-time Penn students, undergraduate and Master’s-level, returning in the same full-time status in the fall, are eligible to apply. Applicants do not need prior journalism and/or reporting experience to apply; however applicants must demonstrate a strong willingness to cover and dive deep into issues by asking questions, unpacking complex topics, and using a variety of media platforms, from written to digital, to share these stories Applicants must be ready to commit to the fellowship for a minimum of 8-10 weeks Applicants must also focus on an issue in any country in Latin America or the Caribbean that is not the applicant's home country In addition, all applicants must meet Penn Global and Pulitzer Center eligibility requirements. Expectations (If Awarded) If you are awarded a Pulitzer Virtual International Reporting Student Fellowship, you are expected to: Attend a workshop, facilitated by the Pulitzer Center, prior to your reporting assignment. Submit a set deliverables (e.g. three blog posts, a narrative slideshow and a longer piece) agreed to by you and the Pulitzer Center. For the 2022 Fellowship, these deliverables will be due by the end of August, 2022. This work will be published on the Pulitzer Center website and possibly other outlets. Participate in outreach efforts for Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean (PLAC), South Asia Center (SAC), and Middle East Center (MEC) upon return to campus. All international reporting fellows are also expected to abide by the Pulitzer Center’s Ethics and Standards Policy. Go Back paid Financial Support This Fellowship includes a $3,500 award ($3,000 from PLAC/Penn Global and $500 from the Pulitzer Center). If awarded, international reportin fellows will receive instructions regarding how to obtain the initial PLAC/Penn Global grant of $3,000. Once deliverables have been satisfactorily completed, the Pulitzer Center will provide the final $500 award. Go Back border_color Application Details & Instructions The strongest applicants will identify an untold story and present a clear, succinct plan for telling that story. For additional tips on preparing a competitive application, we strongly encourage you to: Watch the video and/or review the slides prepared by the Pulitzer Center for the 2022 Fellowship Information Session (next module) Review the Pulitzer Center's website for tips for writing a successful proposal for a reporting fellowship For the 2022 Fellowship, applications are due by February 1, 2022. Apply Today Go Back info 2022 Fellowship Information Session On November 15, 2021, the Pulitzer Center held an information session for students from the University of Pennsylvania interested in applying for the 2022 International Reporting Fellowship. All interested applicants are encouraged to watch the recording and/or review the slides prior to completing an application. Watch the Recording Review the Slides Go Back how_to_reg Eligibility & Expectations Eligibility All current full-time Penn students, undergraduate and Master’s-level, returning in the same full-time status in the fall, are eligible to apply. Applicants do not need prior journalism and/or reporting experience to apply; however applicants must demonstrate a strong willingness to cover and dive deep into issues by asking questions, unpacking complex topics, and using a variety of media platforms, from written to digital, to share these stories Applicants must be ready to commit to the fellowship for a minimum of 8-10 weeks Applicants must also focus on an issue in any country in Latin America or the Caribbean that is not the applicant's home country In addition, all applicants must meet Penn Global and Pulitzer Center eligibility requirements. Expectations (If Awarded) If you are awarded a Pulitzer Virtual International Reporting Student Fellowship, you are expected to: Attend a workshop, facilitated by the Pulitzer Center, prior to your reporting assignment. Submit a set deliverables (e.g. three blog posts, a narrative slideshow and a longer piece) agreed to by you and the Pulitzer Center. For the 2022 Fellowship, these deliverables will be due by the end of August, 2022. This work will be published on the Pulitzer Center website and possibly other outlets. Participate in outreach efforts for Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean (PLAC), South Asia Center (SAC), and Middle East Center (MEC) upon return to campus. All international reporting fellows are also expected to abide by the Pulitzer Center’s Ethics and Standards Policy. Go Back paid Financial Support This Fellowship includes a $3,500 award ($3,000 from PLAC/Penn Global and $500 from the Pulitzer Center). If awarded, international reportin fellows will receive instructions regarding how to obtain the initial PLAC/Penn Global grant of $3,000. Once deliverables have been satisfactorily completed, the Pulitzer Center will provide the final $500 award. Go Back border_color Application Details & Instructions The strongest applicants will identify an untold story and present a clear, succinct plan for telling that story. For additional tips on preparing a competitive application, we strongly encourage you to: Watch the video and/or review the slides prepared by the Pulitzer Center for the 2022 Fellowship Information Session (next module) Review the Pulitzer Center's website for tips for writing a successful proposal for a reporting fellowship For the 2022 Fellowship, applications are due by February 1, 2022. Apply Today Go Back info 2022 Fellowship Information Session On November 15, 2021, the Pulitzer Center held an information session for students from the University of Pennsylvania interested in applying for the 2022 International Reporting Fellowship. All interested applicants are encouraged to watch the recording and/or review the slides prior to completing an application. Watch the Recording Review the Slides About the Partnership Since 2012-2013, Penn and the Pulitzer Center have partnered to offer Penn students the opportunity to become Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellows. From "Caught Between: Venezuelan Migrants in Colombia" to "Violence for Migrants at the Border," Penn's international reporting fellows have embarked on a number of projects, many with little to no journalism experience, to shed light on underreported global crises and give voices to the people at the center of these crises. The partnership also supports visits by Pulitzer Center journalists to Penn's campus. This partnership is comprised of a constellation of organizations, including the Pulitzer Center, Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC), Penn Global, Penn's Middle East Center (MEC), and Penn's South Asia Center (SAC). Learn More About the Partnership & Previous Reporting Fellows 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy