Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Creating an Equitable Classroom Language Considerations Academic Integrity Assessing Writing Creating Inclusive Assignments International Student Perception on Writing Writing Conventions Across Cultures Writing Assessment of Non-Native English Speakers The Graduate School Context Research Resources Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Menu Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students– Creating an Equitable Classroom – Language Considerations – Academic Integrity – Assessing Writing–– Creating Inclusive Assignments –– International Student Perception on Writing –– Writing Conventions Across Cultures –– Writing Assessment of Non-Native English Speakers –– The Graduate School Context –– Research –– Resources – Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Below is a list of frequently asked questions about international travel, visitors, hiring, partnerships, and more. If you do not find the answer to your question through a linked resource below, please reach out to us at ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu If requested, please defer to your department/college’s internal protocols of international project, hiring, partnership or other requests. Exchange and Study Abroad Agreements How do I start a study abroad program? Show More Faculty are urged to consult with the Study Abroad Office as soon as they know they may want to develop a new program. For new programs, planning is generally a two-year process. Interested individuals should submit the Faculty Interest Form and view the program development and proposal process. How do I start an MOU or exchange agreement? Show More MOU and International Cooperative Agreements must be authorized by the Chancellor or Provost. Consulting with the Office of Global Engagement is the first step to successful global partnership-building in all scenarios. View MOU guidelines and contact David Dixon, Director of Global Partnerships, to get started. What are the implications of SACS accreditation/What program or project elements define a location as a site according to SACS? Show More There are numerous policies and guidelines published by SACSCOC associated with the establishment of new sites (domestic or international) and development of collaborative academic arrangements (MOU’s,etc.). The document Substantive Change for SACSCOC Accredited Institutions addresses types of changes that must be reported to SACSCOC, including off-campus instructional locations. The document Agreements Involving Joint and Dual Academic Awards addresses the establishment of collaborative academic arrangements with partner institutions. Before considering a partnership involving a new site or any type of collaborative academic arrangement please contact Fashaad Crawford, Associate Vice Provost for Assessment and accreditation. Faculty Abroad Are faculty members on scholarly leave permitted to sign a lecturing contract to teach abroad at a partner university while in the country on a tourist visa? Show More Faculty lecturing contracts depend on laws specific to the destination country and the length of time of the visit. What are the visa restrictions for faculty working (e.g. teaching, conducting research, consulting) abroad? Show More Visa restrictions are country specific. You may view travel visa requirements and resources via services such as VisaHQ, Travisa, or CIBT Visas. Can I stay in an Airbnb (or equivalent service) while traveling abroad on official university business? Show More Reimbursement or direct payment for lodging in an establishment that is being rented out by a third-party or an establishment treated as an apartment building by state or local law or regulation is not allowed unless approved in advance by the University Controller’s Office, as delegated by the Office of State Budget and Management. Non-commercial lodging includes any lodging option that is not a commercially licensed hotel, hostel, or government/university dorm. Non-commercial lodging can be found on websites such as Airbnb, HomeAway, VRBO, and Hotels.com. As a state agency, university paid expenses must follow all applicable laws and ordinances. This policy applies to all payment methods including direct payments to vendors, p-card payments, and personal reimbursements. If an employee does not secure approval prior to their travel start date, the employee will assume the financial liability of the Third Party / Non-Commercial lodging expense if it cannot be approved. Unauthorized p-card costs must be reimbursed back to the university. Full policy details may be found by visiting Lodging in Non-Commercial Lodging Establishments webpage Can I use my PCard for an ATM withdrawal abroad? Show More You may use your PCard to make cash withdrawals abroad using your PIN. You must have prior approval from Card Services. Hiring and Hosting International Employees or Visitors Whom should I contact in order to hire someone to work for NC State that will be working outside of the U.S.? Show More You should contact your college and Human Resources (under International Employment). If the individual is teaching NC State curriculum, you should also contact Duane Larick, Senior Vice Provost for Academic Strategic and Resource Management and Chief of Staff. Whom should I contact in order to hire someone from outside the U.S. to work at NC State? Show More You should contact your college, Human Resources (under International Employment), and the Office of International Services for guidance. How can I bring a no-pay international visitor to NC State? Show More International scholars who will be coming to NC State based on their own funding or home institution support often have position titles such as ‘Visiting Scholar’ or ‘Visiting Researcher’. Other possible visa options for unpaid positions are J-2 with work authorization, F-1 Student with Optional Practical Training (OPT), and J-1 Student with Academic Training (A.T.). While visitor visa categories (B-1/B-2, etc.) may sometimes substitute, it is strongly preferred that all qualified visitors coming to NC State from overseas come under J-1 visa sponsorship. Contact the Office of International Services for initial support and Human Resources (under International Employment). How can we hire a local national to work on a collaborative research project that originated at NC State? Show More You should reach out to Human Resources (under International Employment), Payroll (under International Compensation & Taxation) and General Counsel for consultation as soon as activity is proposed. Can our graduate student continue his/her assistantship while in their home country? Show More You should reach out to the Office of International Services, the Graduate School, Human Resources (under International Employment), Payroll (under International Compensation & Taxation) and General Counsel for consultation. Is long-term housing available for international visitors to NC State? Show More There is no set long-term housing from the university for international visitors. Visitors are advised to coordinate long-term housing as early as possible and can contact University Housing or use services such as Airbnb and VRBO. NC State also has set rates at several nearby hotels including Aloft, DoubleTree by Hilton, The StateView Hotel, Holiday Inn Express & Suites, and Marriott City Center. Please contact each hotel directly for the most up-to-date NC State rate. How do I lock in currency exchange rates for international contracts? Show More NC State is currently working on locking in currency exchange rates for contracts at the institutional level. Other Does the NC State European Center in Prague allow NC State to be qualified as an EU organization and apply for EU funding? Show More No, NC State Prague is not recognized as an EU organization. NC State is essentially a foreign company registered to do business in the Czech Republic, with NC State Prague operating as a branch of NC State there. Paying International Employees or Visitors What process should be followed to pay for short-term services abroad, such as a tour guide or guest lecture? Show More Short-term services abroad should be paid either with cash through a travel advance or a with a vendor invoice. Contact the NC State General Counsel (International and Study Abroad practice group) for specific inquiries about contracts, including jurisdiction of contracts and confidentiality concerns. What is the process for paying a faculty member who is teaching an NC State course, but is not on campus nor a U.S. citizen? Show More Faculty members do not need to be claimed as an employee of NC State, but faculty credentials need to be addressed. Faculty titles should be determined at the departmental level. Please see NC State REG 05.20.40 on Instructor Qualifications. Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.