Skip to main content Undergraduate Global Engagement formerly the office of Global Programs Menu Steps to Study Abroad Find a Program Map of Programs All Columbia-Led Programs Global Columbia Collaboratory Help & Advising Student Experiences About Us Our Staff News Events and Deadlines For Faculty Search Log In Home / Find a Program / Global Columbia Collaboratory Global Columbia Collaboratory Term: Academic Year, Spring, Summer, Fall Reflect. Ideate. Collaborate. Program Notifications Sign-Up Notify me when the application for this program is available Email * Apply for the Summer 2022 Global Columbia Collaboratory: The Amazon Region We Want Taking part in the Global Columbia Collaboratory provides you with a virtual forum for learning about global issues from international experts and peers around the world. You, the student participant, will sharpen your cross-cultural and collaborative skills, enhance your global network, develop ideas and your professional portfolio. During the Summer 2022 Global Columbia Collaboratory you will learn from sustainability experts, preeminent scientists, and local Amazon activist-practitioners about the current state of the Amazon ecosystem, it's peoples and communities. Through four seminars given by experts and locals in the field, small group meetings, and a collaborative project as a deliverable, students will reflect, ideate, and collaborate to learn, discuss, and raise awareness about the state of the Amazon region - all 100% virtually! If you have any questions, write to globalcollab@columbia.edu. Timeline and Expectations Application due: Friday, May 13, 2022 Programming for the Collaboratory will take place over 7 weeks and students should expect to spend 3 - 4 hours a week engaged with Collaboratory content, seminars and activities. Students must participate in all events as part of joining the Summer 2022 Collaboratory. Week 1: June 6 - 10 Orientation and UNESCO Story Circles Week 2: June 13 - 17 Global Seminar featuring Jeffrey Sachs, Sustainable Development Solutions Network Small group meetings Week 3: June 20 - 24 Global Seminar: The Amazon as a Regional Entity of the Earth System featuring speakers from Ecuador, Colombia, and Brazil Small group meetings Week 4: June 27 - July 1 Global Seminar: Land Use, Climate and Demographic Changes in the Amazon & their Impact featuring speakers from Brazil and the U.S. Small group meetings Week 5: July 5 - 8 Global Seminar: The Solution Space: Finding Sustainable Pathways for the Amazon featuring speakers from Brazil, Colombia, and the U.S. Small group meetings Week 6: July 11 - 15 Small group meetings Week 7: July 18 - 22 Awareness Campaign Showcase About The Summer 2022 Collaboratory: The Amazon Region We Want is a virtual global program exploring the current state of the Amazon ecosystem and its communities. Through four seminars given by experts and locals in the field, small group meetings, and a collaborative project as a deliverable, students will reflect, ideate, and collaborate to learn, discuss, and raise awareness about the state of the Amazon region. Through participating in the Collaboratory, students have the opportunity to make a positive impact! It draws on the Science Panel for the Amazon’s unprecedented initiative convened under the auspices of the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN). The SPA is composed of over 200 preeminent scientists and researchers who came together to debate, analyze, and assemble the accumulated knowledge of the scientific community, Indigenous peoples, and other stakeholders that live and work in the Amazon. The Summer 2022 Collaboratory is offered by the Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement in partnership with Columbia Global Centers Rio de Janeiro; the Sustainable Development Solutions Network; and The Science Panel for the Amazon. Who: Undergraduate students from Columbia University, partner institutions, and various colleges and universities in the Amazon region; international sustainability experts; and local practitioners addressing the challenges and opportunities in the Amazon. Where: This is a virtual program with synchronous and asynchronous seminars and meetings, conducted in English. When: Weekly from June 6 through July 22, 2022. Time Commitment: Students should expect to spend 3 - 4 hours a week engaging with Collaboratory content, seminars and activities. Application: Applications are open until Friday, May 13, 2022 and reviewed on a rolling basis until the program is full. Students must complete a brief application describing their interest in the program. Cost: This non-credit program is free for students selected to participate. Deliverable: Students will collaborate in small groups to create awareness campaigns which they will present at the Collab Awareness Campaign Showcase. Certificate: Students will receive a Global Columbia Collaboratory Certificate of Completion to add to their LinkedIn profiles and/or online portfolios. Eligibility At the point of application and throughout the Global Columbia Collaboratory experience, you must be currently enrolled as an undergraduate student in good disciplinary standing. If selected to join the Summer 2022 Global Columbia Collaboratory: The Amazon Region We Want, students must agree to fully participate in all offerings and collaborate with their peers on the awareness campaign. The Collaboratory is conducted in English and is not-for-credit. It is free to participants. Applications are open until Friday, May 13, 2022 and reviewed on a rolling basis until the program is full. Program Benefits The Global Columbia Collaboratory: The Amazon Region We Want will provide you with opportunities to: Develop a worldwide network of thinkers eager to understand and engage with complex global challenges in the Amazon region; Learn more about the state of the Amazon’s ecosystem and options for conservation and sustainable development from experts in their fields; Collaborate with your global peers and location NGOs in the region to create an awareness campaign; Strengthen global learning competencies: listening for understanding, perspective taking, critical reflection, personal and social responsibility; Receive a Global Columbia Collaboratory Certificate of Completion at the successful completion of the program. Components GLOBAL SEMINARS Global seminars are led by faculty, scientific experts, and researchers on the Amazon drawn from the extensive networks of the Sustainable Development Solutions Network and The Science Panel of the Amazon. These seminars are open to the public and bring in participants from all around the world. Please note the seminars are not-for-credit. SMALL GROUP MEETINGS - "PODs" Collab PODs are facilitated small group sessions that meet on a weekly basis to foster students’ connection and reflection as they process and build on their learning. TOOLBOX SESSIONS These are skills-based workshops to support students’ successful ideation and launch of an Amazon Region We Want awareness campaign. AWARENESS CAMPAIGN PROJECTS Students work in PODs and in consultation with local NGOs to design and launch awareness campaigns informed and inspired by the Global Seminars. Collaboratory curriculum provides the support and tools students need to successfully engage with this project. Collaboratory Framework Reflect Learn from your peers, faculty and other experts drawn from Columbia's global network Access chapters from the Science Panel of the Amazon 2021 Assessment Report Exchange perspectives on global challenges framed by the Global Seminars Reflect together on effective ways to amplify awareness around the state of the Amazon region and opportunities to Ideate Identify key issues of concern related to the state of the Amazon as a pressing global issue Discuss ways to address those issues and project plans Generate project ideas and solutions to raise awareness about the state of the Amazon region Collaborate Engage with others in practicing Human Centered Design principles Work with Collab teammates to build an awareness campaign Exercise cultural humility as you work together across differences Our Stories "The Collaboratory illustrated the enduring importance of cross-cultural collaboration in moments of economic and political destabilization." Arina Karkhanis CC'21 Read the Story Fact Sheet Advisers: Gale Lynch Term: Academic Year, Spring, Summer, Fall Dates & Deadlines Summer 2022 Application Deadline: Monday, May 16, 2022 Admissions Decision Date: Monday, May 16, 2022 Notes: We are open to accepting late interest forms. If a deadline has passed, but you are interested in joining the Collaboratory please email globalcollab@columbia.edu Global Programs and Fellowships Home Top Log In Columbia University Global Programs 606 Kent Hall, MC 3948 1140 Amsterdam Ave New York, NY 10027 212-854-2559 212-854-5164 uge@columbia.edu In the event of an emergency abroad, please contact International SOS at +001-215-942-8478. Steps to Study Abroad Find a Program Help & Advising Student Experiences About Us For Faculty © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page