Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Mumbai Publications Mumbai Videos Mumbai Videos A conversation with writer, literary editor and Columbia School of Journalism alumnus ('89), Sudeep Sen, author of a new collection of poems entitled 'Anthropocene: Climate Change, Contagion, Consolidation'. This program the role, scope and challenges of photojournalism in bearing witness and recording history during the current pandemic, featuring Danish Siddiqui and Nina Berman. With the outbreak of Covid-19, 95% of museums across the world were forced to close their doors. Commemorating World Museums Day, distinguished museum leaders addressed how museums have creatively dealt with the challenges of the pandemic. Our panel of experts shared multi-pronged strategies to combat the challenge of oral cancer in India and the world, and helped viewers find out what they can do to reduce their risk for this deadly disease. In collaboration with the Confederation of Indian Industry, this panel showcased some cutting-edge private initiatives to conserve and develop green reserves, and offered recommendations for business leaders looking for socially responsible practices. CGC | Mumbai and the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center hosted a panel of experts on a critical discussion around the importance of cervical cancer screening and preventive vaccination as part of the ongoing series 'Screenings That Save'. On International Women’s Day on March 8, 2021, CGC | Mumbai and the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia SIPA held an exclusive screening of the documentary Powerless (Katiyabaaz) and a panel discussion the status of women in the energy sector. This panel discussion features innovators and their innovative solutions for addressing Covid-19. The panel introduced inspiring stories of startups that made new products tailored to tackle the pandemic. The race to develop and distribute the Covid-19 vaccine has raised hopes but it has also raised multiple concerns. Our distinguished panelists shared a comparative perspective on the vaccines available and addressed the science and ethics involved. Our panelists shared their professional journey as entrepreneurs and innovators and discuss challenges and strategies they deployed to make social impact at the launch of the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2020-2021 Watch the book launch and panel discussion featuring Debashree Mukherjee as she draws on an innovative transdisciplinary approach to offer a panoramic portrait of the Bombay film industry from her new book, Bombay Hustle: Making Movies in a Colonial City During Stomach and Pancreatic Cancer Awareness month 2020, hear from leading oncologists and public health experts from Columbia University and India to learn about how we can understand, diagnose, and prevent gastrointestinal cancers. What can the world's cities learn from Mumbai's struggles with water security? Our expert panelists explored the barriers and possibilities to achieving urban water security in cost-effective and environmentally sustainable ways. For the community of Columbia students currently in India, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai organized an online interactive webinar featuring Jasmine Shah, Joint Chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, Government of National Capital Territory. Can future cities have cleaner skies? Columbia experts explored how the disruption of human activities during the recent coronavirus lockdown has enabled us to imagine the possibility of a world with improved air quality. To welcome Global Breast Cancer Awareness Month, this webinar focused on breast cancer diagnostics, particularly screening, as cancer screenings are integral to treatment and care. Here is the experience of Isabel Canalejo Hoecklin who was a virtual Communications and Documentation Intern for Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA), as part of the Global Virtual Internship program. Here is the experience of Joshua Chabeda who was an Urban Works Fellow interning with Agua Wireless Systems as part of the Global Virtual Internship program Here is the experience of Jiyoon Moon who was a virtual Honey Bee Research Intern for the Sunder Nursery project as part of the Global Virtual Internship program. Iconic images give flesh to how we remember significant moments in history. This panel discussion explored the role, scope and challenges of photojournalism in bearing witness and recording history during the COVID-19 pandemic. Breast cancer is the most common cancer affecting women globally, and in India. This Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we share insights from a symposium held on Dec 4, 2019 as part of the Yusuf Hamied Fellowships Program to spread awareness. Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai and the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC) in India launched this campaign as part of the Sunder Nursery project to increase awareness about honey bees and inspire citizens to participate in bee conservation efforts. This webinar, organized in July 2020 as part of the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020, features insights on various financing options available to early-stage tech startups by leading members of the investor and financier community in India. Oral health services have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In Part II, our panel discussed lessons learned from India, Kenya and USA in continuing the training of dental students, and community dental health services during this pandemic. Oral health services have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In Part I, our panel discussed lessons learned from India, Kenya and USA in providing clinical and outreach services in dental healthcare delivery during this pandemic. As the world continues to grapple with the COVID-19 pandemic, we must ask, how can we end this crisis and ensure that we can prevent the next one? Professor Ian Lipkin, world-renowned virologist, answers the question on the threat of emerging viruses. As the issue of zoonotic diseases transmitted between animals and humans has soared into prominence during the COVID-19 pandemic, it is critical to rethink the wildlife trade markets that are widespread in multiple countries. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in women in the United States and India, and yet women are less likely to seek healthcare for themselves. Watch our panel of experts discuss the challenges in providing care for women during COVID-19. On World Environment Day, watch Urban Works Innovation Challenge winner Kanish Aggarwal, co-founder of smart water management startup Agua, talk about water conservation in cities. On World Environment Day, watch Urban Works Innovation Challenge winner Mukul Chhabra, founder of recycling startup Swapeco, talk about recycling in urban workplaces. The COVID-19 pandemic has raised new challenges for businesses and employees adjusting to working from home. Watch this video featuring Amit Malik, founder of InnerHour, a winning startup of the Urban Works Innovation Challenge. Without honey bees, 80 percent of the world's cultivated plants would disappear. On this #WorldBeeDay of May 20, 2020, we celebrate research that highlights the importance of honey bees with insights from international experts. This webinar features Professor Richard Peña in conversation with CGC | Mumbai Director, Ravina Aggarwal as they explore the narrative features and social aspects of films on pandemics that have tried to imagine a world all of us have recently entered. Nurses across the world are central to pandemic response. This webinar showcases how the use of simulation learning in nursing education adopted by Columbia School of Nursing can help to build a robust health care system for coping with the outbreak. Aggressive testing and isolation of clusters. These are two strategies that India needs to implement to move out of the COVID-19 lockdown, according to the world's foremost virologist Professor Ian Lipkin. Professor Kavita Sivaramakrishnan explains how India responded to the plague epidemic that claimed 3 crore lives in an interview with NDTV India. By walking us through the calls of birds that she is recording during the lockdown in Mumbai, Pooja Choksi, a PhD student at Columbia University, asks that we open ourselves to the sounds of diverse life forms that inhabit our cities on Earth Day. Millions of deaths occur globally due to air pollution, with 1 million of these occurring in India annually. To discuss the health hazards of air pollution, CGC | Mumbai organized a symposium in with Prof. Jeanine D’Armiento. Here are some highlights. Watch what Manik Mehta and Kalpana Vishwanath, founders of exciting startups, said about the importance of Funds at a series of panel discussions organized to launch the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020 Watch what K.P. Ashwin and Vaishali Nigam Sinha, founders of exciting startups, said about the importance of Team-building at a series of panel discussions organized to launch the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020 Watch what Manik Mehta and Vaishali Nigam Sinha, founders of exciting startups, said about the importance of Mentorship at a series of panel discussions organized to launch the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020 Watch what K.P. Ashwin and Manik Mehta, founders of exciting startups, said about the importance of Customer Research at a series of panel discussions organized to launch the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020 Watch what Vaishali Nigam Sinha and Kalpana Viswanath, founders of exciting startups, said about the importance of Innovation at a series of panel discussions organized to launch the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020 Watch what Antony Alex and Kalpana Viswanath, founders of exciting startups, said about the importance of Vision at a series of panel discussions organized to launch the Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2019-2020 Hear Dr. Habib Hasan Farooqui's insights on the future of drug pricing at a panel discussion featuring recipients of the Yusuf Hamied Fellowships on the impact of regulations on pharmaceuticals in India. Hear Professor Bhaven Sampat's insights on the future of drug pricing at a panel discussion featuring recipients of the Yusuf Hamied Fellowships on the impact of regulations on pharmaceuticals in India. An interview with Professor Elena Ladas exploring the significance of the human gut microbiome as a critical area of focus in health and wellness in India. A presentation and panel discussion featuring Ratish Nanda and Professor Ruth DeFries on urbanization and green spaces to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Columbia Global Centers A panel discussion with Sunita Singh and Pratap Raju on the role of incubators in India's innovation ecosystem: what has worked so far, and what more needs to be done to factor in changes at the level of the ecosystem. A lecture by Professor Daniel Steingart, which explores the current state of energy storage, what gaps exist in meeting worldwide requirements, and what opportunities exist to accelerate adoption and performance of energy storage devices A panel discussion with Dr. Leena Pujari, Dr. Gita Chadha and Dr. Nandita Shah on key programs and best practices undertaken in Indian universities and colleges to foster gender equity and sensitization among students and staff Prof. K. Srinath Reddy, President of the Public Health Foundation of India, presented the inaugural Yusuf Hamied Lecture, part of Columbia Mailman's Grand Rounds on the Future of Public Health A workshop by Dr. Elena Ladas on development of 'Nutrition Guideline for Children and Adolescents with Cancer' A seminar for Nursing students, with expert speakers in the field of public health from The Foundation of Medical Research and Medecins Sans Frontieres in Mumbai The annual Yusuf Hamied Distinguished Lecture on by Professor Gary Miller on 'The Exposome: Measuring Complex Exposures on a Global Scale' A talk by Professor Safwan Masri on how the presence, and lack thereof, of civil society, education, secularism and sectarianism affect the prospects of democratic and pluralistic societies in a post-2011 Middle East A conversation with Dr. Rishi Goyal, Emergency Medicine physician, literary scholar, and Director of the Medicine, Literature and Society program at Columbia University, and novelist and artist Manjula Padmanabhan A public lecture by Professor Ruth DeFries public lecture by Professor Ruth DeFries where she compares nutritional and environmental outcomes across Indian cereals. Professor Ibrahim Odeh, Director of Global Leaders in Construction Management at Columbia University, speaks about the global construction industry, and the challenges it has faced in the past two decades. A film screening and discussion on infrastructure expansion and wildlife conservation in India, with Dr. Ruth DeFries from Columbia University and Dr. Krithi Karanth from the Centre for Wildlife Studies Panel discussion on Building Sustainable Workspaces featuring leading business experts Sharad Sanghi, Pirojsha Godrej, Shom Hinduja, and writer Aparna Piramal Raje. Author of two acclaimed biographies of Shashi Kapoor and Priyanka Chopra, and Columbia alumnus Aseem Chhabra discussed the success of Indian cinema across boundaries, and the processes through which film celebrities in Mumbai become global stars. Public lecture by Gauri Viswanathan, Class of 1933 Professor in Humanities and Director of the South Asia Institute at Columbia University, on the role of Theosophy in making classical Sanskrit texts available to a range of nineteenth-century readers in B A lecture by Dr. Zachary Burt, Research Fellow at the Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, on water rights and access to clean water and sanitation in tier-II Indian cities. A talk by author Jerry Pinto where he discusses his lives in the many languages of Mumbai and his experiments in situating himself and implicating his linguistic position. Lecture by Dr. Alexandra Karambelas from The Earth Institute at Columbia University, on the links between energy emissions, air quality, and health outcomes along the Indo-Gangetic Plain and regionally across India. A lecture by Tejaswini Ganti, Associate Professor at New York University, on some of the insights and lessons she has gained over time and the methodologies necessary for studying media industries, especially commercial film production. Workshop led by Dr. Daniel Naujoks on the Model International Mobility Convention (MIMC), which has been designed by an academic commission brought together by Columbia University’s Global Policy Initiative. A panel discussion organized at the Center in collaboration with the U.S. Consulate General in Mumbai to mark International Women's Day. The panel included noted filmmaker Alankrita Shrivastava and Professor Richard Peña from Columbia University. A lecture on pioneering actor and director Ida Lupino by Richard Peña, Professor of Professional Practice in Film at the School of the Arts, Columbia University. Excerpts from a workshop with Madhabi Chatterji, Professor of Measurement, Evaluation, and Education at Teachers College, Columbia University, to introduce new ideas on evidence-based practices in education. Noted philanthropist Rohini Nilekani in conversation with Dr. Ravina Aggarwal, Director, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai, on February 9, 2018. Rohini shares insights from her journey of over a decade toward ensuring safe, sustainable water for all. Presentation at the Mumbai Center exploring large-scale, technologically simple and socially appropriate incentives for testing and sharing of wells in communities that have a high prevalence of arsenic. Dr. Elena Ladas, Assistant Professor of Nutrition at Columbia University Medical Center, discusses the crucial role nutrition and integrative medicine play as components of supportive care during and after the treatment for childhood cancer. Professor Adam Sobel, Director and Chief Scientist at the Initiative on Extreme Weather and Climate at Columbia University, on the threat of cyclones and storm surge in coastal mega-cities such as New York and Mumbai. Launch and opening panel discussion on November 20 of the exhibition on Girangaon, the erstwhile mill lands of Mumbai. Featuring actress Nandita Das, Dr. Anita Patil-Deshmukh, Professor Graciela Montaldo, Neera Adarkar and Dr. Ravina Aggarwal. Dean Mary C. Boyce of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science at Columbia University shares the School's new strategic vision in a lecture at the Center on November 17, 2017. An exhibition on mapping the River Ganga organized by Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai from 18-27 August, 2017. The exhibition was a curated excerpt of extensive fieldwork – spanning a decade – by Anthony Accivatti of Columbia University. A lecture by Dr. Veena Srinivasan, Fellow, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE). Panel discussion exploring the issue of river management in India. The discussion was organized as part of The River Ganga: India's Iconic Water Machine. Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai brought together experts from Columbia University in New York, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, and more to discuss one of the most hyper-engineered landscapes of the world, The River Ganga: India’s Iconic Water Dr. Neeraj Kaushal, Professor of Social Policy and Chair of Doctoral Programs at the School of Social Work, Columbia University, discusses international migration after Brexit, Brussels, and Trump. A masterclass on Indian cinema with award-winning actress Konkona Sensharma, who has starred in over 40 feature films in Bengali, English and Hindi.The session was organized on May 23, 2017 as part of a summer program for Columbia undergraduates. Lecture on 'Demystifying Science, Making Groundwater Accessible in India' by Dr. Himanshu Kulkarni, Founder Trustee and Executive Director of Advanced Center for Water Resources Development and Management (ACWADAM). In this lecture on May 8, 2017 Dr. Pinki Mondal from Columbia University, shares how she has been using satellite images from the past 27 years to understand changes in mangroves along the coast of Sierra Leone in West Africa. Together with the Columbia Alumni Association of Mumbai, we gave a warm send-off to students starting their journey at Columbia this year. Dr. Athanasios Bourtsalas, Adjunct Professor at the Earth and Environmental Engineering Department, Columbia University, presents research findings on the level of municipal solid waste management achieved by different countries. Katherine Alfredo, Adjunct Associate Research Scientist, Columbia University, presents her case study focusing on drinking water treatment facilities in some rural areas of Maharashtra. A lecture by Dr. Rakesh Kumar, Director, CSIR-NEERI, on the potential for greywater recycling, decentralized technology solutions, and learning from wastewater treatments implemented at the community and institutional level. Professor Sheldon Pollock answers the question "What is Indian Knowledge Good For?" as part of the Distinguished Lecture Series at the Mumbai Center. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close