Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Building the future: Climate entrepreneurship in Africa Events Past Event Building the future: Climate entrepreneurship in Africa Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Poster Slide 2: Poster Previous Next March 30, 2022 12:30 PM - 2:00 PM Online Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi The African continent faces many environmental and climate challenges. In 2019, air pollution caused 1.1 million deaths across the continent, making it the second-largest cause of death. The Niger River, a water source for millions of people in West Africa, is filled with oil, trash, toxic substances and other contaminants. In the second half of 2021, Douala, Dakar, Abidjan were hit with massive floods. At the same time, droughts, insect infestations, and jihadist attacks are threatening Niger with a hunger crisis. In August 2021, wildfires ravaged Algeria and Tunisia due to high winds and hot, dry conditions. At the time, Tunis hit a record 49 degrees Celsius (120 degrees Fahrenheit). Since Africa is so affected by climate change, many entrepreneurs have developed businesses that promote sustainable development. For example, Jeremiah Thoronka in Sierra Leone, founder of Optim Energy, uses kinetic energy to provide power to 150 households and 15 schools in Kuntosh. Nigerian scientist Godfrey Nzamuju started a zero-waste farm in the Benin region and has trained more than 30,000 farmer-entrepreneurs in Nigeria, Uganda, Sierra Leone and Nigeria. His model of using farms to offer food, employment and energy (in the form of biogas) could revolutionize agriculture in the region. A group of women in Tunisia is following a similar model. Local groups such as the Sidi Bou Zitoun association and the Observatory of Food Sovereignty and Environment are working to replace imported, hybrid seeds with local ones and favor agricultural models that prioritize local farmers and communities. Since climate change is a large challenge, addressing it can be overwhelming. Emphasizing local and scalable solutions makes the issue much more manageable. For ADG, it is also essential to emphasize African solutions to African problems. So many African entrepreneurs recognize and have developed unique solutions to climate challenges in energy and Agriculture is a testament to this. As the third session in a series of three events, the African Development Group, Columbia University in Partnership with Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi and Columbia Global Centers | Tunis will demonstrate that the African continent is far from helpless in the face of the climate crisis or a simple victim of reckless emissions from Western countries. Through the examples of these entrepreneurs, the panel will show unique African approaches to the challenges the continent faces. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bios Matthew Capuano-Rizzo Matthew is a third year student at Columbia University studying Sustainable Development. Before coming to Columbia, he studied Economics in the Europe-Africa Program at the Paris Institute of Political Science (SciencesPo). Edna Egal Edna is a senior at Columbia University majoring in computer science and African Studies. She is originally from Mogadishu, Somalia and is interested in the role of technology in new urban development practices. After graduation, she will be joining Blackstone as an analyst in the real estate group. Expand all Collapse all Speaker Bios Jit Bhattacharya Jit Bhattacharya is the co-founder and CEO of BasiGo, a company looking to revolutionize the public transport sector in Africa through the introduciton and financing of electric buses. Jit has been a technology leader in EVs and Li-ion batteries for over 12 years. He previously served as CEO of Mission Motors, CTO of Fenix International, and as a Principal with Factor[e] Ventures. Jeremiah Thoronka Jeremiah Thoronka is an award-winning Innovator, Researcher and Scholar in energy, environment, sustainability and development. In 2021, he was awarded the inaugural Global Student Award and the Commonwealth Youth Awards for Excellence in Development Work - Africa; cited for demonstrating exemplary academic excellence and for innovating clean energy systems, promoting locally sustainable solutions and youth involvement in energy, climate change and policy. Hamza Abderrahim Hamza Abderrahim is a Tunisian mechanical engineer and co- founder and president of the association " Vélorution Tunisie" . This project aims to change the urban mobility practices of the citizens od Greater Tunis and to guide political decision- makers towards the adoption of sustainable mobility. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close