Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Columbia on the Continent: Alumni in Action (2nd session) Events Past Event Columbia on the Continent: Alumni in Action (2nd session) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 4, 2022 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Online Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi Many Columbia students and affiliates are interested in working on the African continent but do not know where to begin. Since many Columbia alumni already work on the continent working in governments, international organizations, companies, and NGOs, their expertise could benefit many of our members seeking to work on the continent in various capacities. Bridging the gap between the African diaspora and those working to solve the continent's challenges is one of the African Development Group's main goals. This event would allow Columbia students to see where they could be after graduation. Learning from alumni is essential to determining paths after college since they went through many of the same challenges we are now in determining what to do after graduation, what programs to apply for, among many other issues. The relationships developed in these interactions could be invaluable to our future. The main goal of this second (2nd) session of the series would be to expose Columbia students and affiliates to possible careers on the continent through direct interaction with Columbia alumni working in those careers. At the end of the webinar, Columbia students and affiliates will leave with a concrete understanding of where they could end up after graduation and the paths to follow to get there. They will also have the added asset of the contact information of alumni working in influential positions on the African continent. Careers can be very overwhelming, but the goal of this event is to bring the challenge down to the personal level. These personal interactions will give students a better idea of life after college and hopefully make the prospect less scary. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bio Franck Buhendwa Mugisho Junior, Columbia College studying, Computer Science Expand all Collapse all Speaker Bios Wambui Chege With over 26 years’ experience, Wambui Chege is a seasoned advisory services professional with experience in international and private sector development in Sub-Saharan Africa, the US and Asia. An experienced Board Director, Wambui is currently the Independent Chair of Making Finance Work for Africa, an independent initiative hosted by the African Development Bank, focused on the development of African financial sectors. She also serves on the Board of Fairtrade International, gender-lens venture capital firm, Samata Capital and the African Venture Philanthropy Association. Wambui has a Master’s in international Affairs from the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA), Columbia University in the City of New York and a Bachelor of Commerce from Kenyatta University, Kenya. During her time at SIPA, Wambui co-founded SPAN, the SIPA Pan African Network for students of African descent and served as its first President. Wambui currently works as an independent consultant focused on agribusiness and financial inclusion. She was previously director of agribusiness at KPMG East Africa, 2014-2019. Prior to that, she was head of sustainable agribusiness advisory, Sub-Saharan Africa, at the International Finance Corporation, the private sector arm of the World Bank. She has also worked as a commodities and financial markets correspondent with Reuters in Africa. She is the founder of Kara Sidai Botanicals, a premium natural beauty company based in Kenya. Anuli Isichei Anuli Isichei is a social impact leader and registered nurse with extensive experience supporting multiple sectors including education, nonprofits and healthcare. She has both lived and worked in the US and Nigeria. In her previous role as the Partnership Lead and Faculty with the Healthcare Leadership Academy, based in Nigeria, she established strategic cross-sectoral partnerships, led community engagement efforts and provided strategic oversight for program development. Anuli currently consults for social enterprises based in the US and Nigeria. Anuli is a registered nurse, who has won several awards, including being recognized in 2020 by WHO, UNFPA, Women in Global Health, as 1 of 100 Global Outstanding Women Nurse and Midwife Leaders. In 2012, Anuli was selected out of more than 500 nurses across Long Island, New York to receive the prestigious Nurse of Excellence Award. She is a member of Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society and holds a Master of Public Administration from Columbia University, where she was a Dean’s Service Scholar. Tomiwa Aladekomo Tomiwa Aladekomo is the CEO of Big Cabal Media, which publishes the tech and youth publications, TechCabal and Zikoko. Big Cabal is building the next generation of African media brands and creating some of the most exciting original content from the continent. TechCabal is a future-focused publication that leads clear and compelling conversations on the impact and business of tech in Africa. Its data analytics, research and consulting service, TC Insights provides actionable intelligence about Africa's technology industry to big tech companies, investors, entrepreneurs, regulators and other players on and off the continent. TechCabal’s job is to help people on and off the continent to understand the potential of the sector and how to participate in its success. Our research and consulting service provides answers to specific questions that big tech companies, investors, entrepreneurs, regulators and other players have so that they can make informed decisions. Zikoko is one of the fastest growing youth publications in Nigeria and Africa today, creating high-engagement content around culture and what it means to be young in Nigeria today. Zikoko sits at the heart of Nigeria’s youth culture, telling the most important stories that matter to youth audiences, via written content, video, images and memes. We create, reflect and amplify the most urgent elements of youth culture in ways no other platform can. An experienced executive, Mr. Aladekomo has worked extensively across media and marketing roles in Nigeria and North America. He believes in products that address real human needs, brands that stand for something, marketing that thrills and great ideas executed well. He has taken Big Cabal through a transformation that's made it one of the most exciting new media companies on the continent, telling Africa’s stories in depth and in innovative and fresh ways. He is passionate about Nigeria and is actively involved in driving sustainable change in the Nigerian political system by creating a thriving hub of bright minds, providing the much-needed infrastructure and atmosphere required for grooming future leaders. He isn’t just passionate about Nigeria, but about Africa as a whole. This passion is what fuels the pace-setting work he does at Big Cabal Media, and also as a Board Member of the Africa Tech & Creative Group; which is working to ensure that the implementation of the AFCFTA (Africa Continental Free Trade Act) works for tech, creative and small business communities all over the continent. Tomiwa has a BSc. in Business Administration from Boston University and an MSc. in Anthropology from Columbia University, New York. He is a fellow of the Archbishop Tutu Leadership Fellowship, run by the African Leadership Institute. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close