Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Non-Affiliate Payments Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support This page is general advice and showing the options- and their respective requirements- for how to issue payments to non-employees/students performing work at Penn. The Supplier Portal is live and all payments in USD will be entered through the portal. When submitting a payment for a payee or "supplier" you must send the business office the supplier name and valid email address. You must alert the business office to all Non-Resident Alien payments. There is addtional paperwork we must collect. Payroll Best Use: For people who will be on-campus daily, or with a set schedule of recurring nature. If an employee/employer relationship exists, put on payroll. Paperwork Requirements: Varies, check with Business Office (Ping Loveland). Limited Engagement Forms When appropriate: For people providing a shorter term service, which is academic in nature. These arrangements should be non-recurring, and for a defined period of time. Type of activities includes the following: guest speaker, lecturer, artist, performer, writers/editors, mentor, etc. Could pertain to: Visiting Scholars, Visiting Fellows, Copy Editors, Performers Paperwork Requirements- Limited Engagement Agreement (Links to US Citizens and Non-resident Aliens): (US citizens vs. Non-resident Aliens). Invoice *Non-Resident Aliens will also need: Passport Visa (w/entry stamp) *When the above is complete, a payment request form will be initiated with by the Business Office. Expect a check to be available in approximately 3-4 weeks. PennKey: Link here. Select “Persistent: Guest” PennCard: Link here. Budget code is required, please contact the Business Office prior to going to PennCard Center. Travel: Paid directly by Penn where possible, otherwise included on invoices with payments for services. Receipts should be kept and checked, but no GTR is needed. Honorarium When appropriate: An esteemed guest presenting at or attending a workshop, conference or other routine academic activity, at our request. Honoraria are payments designed to confer distinction or symbolize respect for the recipient. They are given at our discretion only, and not to be a fee for services/negotiated amount or correspond to an amount the individual has requested (i.e.- no invoice should be received!). The activity must last no more than 9 days, and be of no charge to the public. Follow payment information in the link to travel and honoraria guide: Guest Travel & Honoraria Payment Documentation Honoraria, Non-Affiliate, US Citizen/resident alien: Payee "supplier" name and valid email address Honoraria Memo Should include the reason for the payment, and date/location of the activity or event Taxability: Taxes will not be automatically withheld in this situation, although it is still reportable income to the recipient- who bears the burden of reporting and paying taxes each year. Within 72 hours of entry into the supplier portal, the payee or supplier will reiceve a link to register. They are responsible for entering their banking information and tax documents. Honoraria, Non-Affiliate, Non-US Citizen: Payee "supplier" name, valid email address, and notification of Non-Resident Alien status Honoraria Memo (see above) Within 72 hours after the supplier request has been submitted the payee or "supplier" will recieve a link to register with the university. They are required to supply their complete banking information and tax documents. You are required to collect the below documents to submit with their payment: Signed FINF form: FNIF Form Foreign Visitors Honoraria Eligibility Certification: Honoraria Eligibility Form Copy of Visa or Passport including entry stamp Taxability: Honorariums paid to foreign, non-affiliates default to having an automatic federal tax withholding (30% of the payment). In some cases, tax treaties may be available that will reduce the tax rate, or entirely exempt the payment from the automatic US federal tax withholding. This will be determined by meeting all of the following conditions: Individual must be resident of a country that has a current tax treaty with US. Link to: Countries Eligible for Tax Treaty. Individual must have a US provided SSN (social security number) or ITIN (Individual Taxpayer identification number). The payment may not be for an activity that lasts longer than 9 days. If they entered the country on a visa, we must confirm their visa will allow them to receive an Honorarium We will notify the tax office they are likely eligible for the tax treaty. The tax office will confirm and provide the IRS Form 8223. The individual will have to verify the information is accurate and then sign off on the form. Once returned, their payment will be processed with the tax treaty benefits applied. *If an individual does not claim the tax treaty, but is eligible, they may always claim the treaty exemption on a US income tax return directly with the IRS. Guest Travel Reimbursement Guest Travel, Non-Affiliate, US Citizen/resident alien: Payee "Supplier" name and valid email address Guest Travel Reimbursement form filled out and signed. Link to: GTR Worksheet Receipts scanned with GTR worksheet (if there are missing receipts, include memo approving those expenses) Any additional forms required by the business office As with all US residents, once the link has been sent, they are required to upload their banking information and tax documents. Guest Travel, Non-Affiliate, Non-US Citizen: Payee "Supplier" name, valid email address, and notification of Non-Resident Alien status Any additional forms required by the business office With 72 hours of entry into the supplier portal, an email will be sent with the registration link. The supplier is responsible for uploading their tax documents and complete banking information. (individual signature only) Link to: W-8BEN. Instructions: Part 1- Complete Items 1 through 4. Items 5 through 8 are not mandatory, only complete if necessary. Part II- Complete Item 9 only Part III- Sign & Date You are required to submit the following documents to the business office upon supplier profile completion: Signed Foreign National Information Form Link to: FNIF Form Copy of Visa and Passport including entry stamp Guest Travel Reimbursement form filled out and signed (if missing receipts, include memo) If payment is being sent to individual who resides outside the US, payment will be issued via wire (see tab with required banking information). Email requesting reimbursement with banking information included Reimbursements to Businesses, Charities, or Affiliated Groups: When a guest of Penn Global requests their reimbursement or honoraria be paid to a business, charity, or group they are affiliated with, that payment goes in the supplier portal as a Non-PO payment request to the business, charity, or group. The following is required: Memo notifying the business office that our guest is forgoing their honoraria or reimbursement and the payment is being made to an entity on their behalf The entity being paid will have to register with UPenn as a supplier to recieve the payment The entity name and appropriate email to be submitted to the business office for entry into the supplier portal Penn Students, faculty, staff, and Independent Contractors Must submit all expenses via Concur. Independent Contractor Independent Contractor is defined as an individual performing a specific job at the University. It can be reoccurring, longer term, or consulting in nature. These are highly nuanced and require a significant paperwork burden. Consult with Business Office before engaging. Gifts to University Affiliates - Students, Staff and Faculty Any gifts to students, staff, and faculty must be in the form of a tangible item (such as a mug or UPenn t-shirt) that has a value equal to, or less than $100. 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy