Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Frankfurt in Paris Book Talk: Vice, Crime, and Poverty Events Past Event Frankfurt in Paris Book Talk: Vice, Crime, and Poverty Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Vice, Crime, and Poverty cover October 15, 2019 7:00 PM - 10:00 PM 4 rue de Chevreuse, 75006, Paris, France To coincide with the Frankfurt Book Fair 2019, the world's largest trade fair for books, Columbia University Press and Columbia Global Centers | Paris presents Frankfurt in Paris, hosted at Columbia Global Centers | Paris. For the 2019 reiteration of Frankfurt in Paris, Columbia University Press and Columbia Global Centers | Paris presents a book talk to mark the release of Dominique Kalifa's book Vice, Crime, and Poverty, published by Columbia University Press. Kalifa will be in conversation with Jennifer Crewe, editor of Vice, Crime, and Poverty. Read a short description of Vice, Crime, and Poverty below. In Vice, Crime, and Poverty, Dominique Kalifa traces the untold history of the concept of the underworld and its representations in popular culture. He examines how the myth of the lower depths came into being in nineteenth-century Europe, as biblical figures and Christian traditions were adapted for a world turned upside-down by the era of industrialization, democratization, and mass culture. From the Parisian demimonde to Victorian squalor, from the slums of New York to the sewers of Buenos Aires, Kalifa deciphers the making of an image that has cast an enduring spell on its audience. While the social conditions that created that underworld have changed, Vice, Crime, and Poverty shows that, from social-scientific ideas of the underclass to contemporary cinema and steampunk culture, its shadows continue to haunt us. About Dominique Kalifa Dominique Kalifa is a French historian, professor at the University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne, where he is director of the Centre of 19th Century History and member of the Institut Universitaire de France. A student of Michelle Perrot, he specialises in the history of crime, transgression, social control, and mass culture in 19th and early 20th France and Europe. He also taught at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po) from 2008 to 2015, and was several times "Invited professor" at NYU and "Visiting Scholar" at the University of Saint Andrews. From 1990, he is also columnist (historical reviews) for the French newspaper Libération. About Jennifer Crewe Jennifer Crewe is Associate Provost and Director of Columbia University Press, where she previously served as Editorial Director. As an acquisitions editor for the Press she acquired books in various fields in the humanities, including a series of translations of important works by major European intellectuals, European Perspectives. Dominique Kalifa’s book is in that series. Prior to joining Columbia Crewe was an editor at Charles Scribner’s Sons and at Macmillan. She is past president of the Association of University Presses. She served on the Executive Council of the Professional and Scholarly Publishing division of the Association of American Publishers from 2013-2016. In addition, she served on the Executive Council of the Modern Language Association from 2009-2012. In 2017 she was named a Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Ministry of Culture, and was given an Outstanding Service Award by the Literature Translation Institute, Korea. She earned an MFA degree from the Writing Division of the School of the Arts, Columbia University, and her BA is from Sarah Lawrence College. About Eric Schwartz Eric Schwartz is editorial director of Columbia University Press. Before joining the press in September 2014, he was senior editor for sociology and cognitive science at Princeton University Press, a job he had held since 2008. During that time he established a new list in cognitive science and revitalized the sociology list, turning it into one of the top lists in the field. Before moving to Princeton he was psychology editor at Cambridge University Press. He started his career at Springer as a manufacturing assistant and Oxford University Press as manufacturing controller. He became production controller at Cambridge and moved into the editorial department in 2006. Along the way he earned a Ph.D. in political science from the New School for Social Research. His BA, in international relations, is from the University of Delaware. Eric has been active with the Association of American University Presses and the Bookbinder’s Guild of New York. He has started a sociology list at Columbia University Press and is building upon the existing list in neurobiology and behavior. Columbia University Press logo Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close