Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. For Penn Students Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Whether you are seeking immigration advice, exploring study abroad opportunities, or in search of a transformative global experience at Penn, you’ve come to the right place. Immigration & Integration Support International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) advances global engagement at the University of Pennsylvania and affiliated hospitals by offering inclusive, innovative and impactful immigration and integration services. Go Back handshake Immigration & Integration Services & Support International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides immigration support and guidance to international students, scholars, staff, and faculty across the University, including University central, Penn's 12 Schools, and the University of Pennsylvania Health System (UPHS). ISSS also works closely with campus partners and student groups to prioritize the integration of international students into University life and ensure international students thrive at Penn. In so doing, ISSS delivers innovative programming to enhance international student integration and create an inclusive global community at Penn. Following are links to several popular resources for international students and scholars. + iPenn + Advising + Employment + COVID-19 Information ISSS Website Contact ISSS Go Back celebration Celebrating Our International Community Penn recognizes and celebrates its international community as treasured, essential members of our global family. We are dedicated to providing the support, guidance, and programming to ensure our international students, scholars, staff and faculty across the University can thrive at Penn. Celebrate our International Community Go Back handshake Immigration & Integration Services & Support International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides immigration support and guidance to international students, scholars, staff, and faculty across the University, including University central, Penn's 12 Schools, and the University of Pennsylvania Health System (UPHS). ISSS also works closely with campus partners and student groups to prioritize the integration of international students into University life and ensure international students thrive at Penn. In so doing, ISSS delivers innovative programming to enhance international student integration and create an inclusive global community at Penn. Following are links to several popular resources for international students and scholars. + iPenn + Advising + Employment + COVID-19 Information ISSS Website Contact ISSS Go Back celebration Celebrating Our International Community Penn recognizes and celebrates its international community as treasured, essential members of our global family. We are dedicated to providing the support, guidance, and programming to ensure our international students, scholars, staff and faculty across the University can thrive at Penn. Celebrate our International Community Find Your Global Experience at Penn... Penn is committed to providing a meaningful global experience to every Penn student. We welcome students from every corner of the world, with a wide range of professional and personal interests, and provide diverse opportunities for our vibrant community to engage in transformative global experiences, whether through campus engagement, study abroad, service learning, or innovative research programs. Go Back explore Study & Intern Abroad Penn Abroad is the University's hub for the student global opportunities. Opportunities include semester and academic year study abroad and a growing portfolio of short-term study and research abroad programs, such as the Global Research and Internship Program, Penn Global Seminars, and Penn Global Research Institutes. Visit their website to learn more about these global opportunities, hear from past participants, and explore the resources available to learn where Penn will take you. Begin My Journey Go Back hub Global Policy Engagement Perry World House is the hub for global policy engagement on Penn's campus. Located at 38th and Locust Walk, Perry World House provides unique opportunities for Penn students to gain experience and build skills and knowledge bridging the academic and policy worlds through its World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates programs. Perry World House also presents a full roster of workshops, colloquia, and public events for Penn students to engage with experts from the University and beyond. Connect with Perry World House Go Back travel_explore Penn's Global Campus Penn is home to 12 premier Schools with a global reach and over 60 University and School centers with a global focus, including Perry World House (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy & Global Engagement (Washington, DC), the Penn Wharton China Center (Beijing, China) and University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India (Delhi, India). Explore the many ways in which you can engage globally at Penn and beyond. Explore Penn's Global Campus Go Back group_work Global Student Clubs Penn is home to dozens of clubs for students with an interest in global affairs, including the Assembly of International Students (AIS), Graduate and Professional Student Assembly (GAPSA), and numerous multicultural groups. Explore the Penn Club portal to find your community on campus. Explore Global Penn Clubs Go Back explore Study & Intern Abroad Penn Abroad is the University's hub for the student global opportunities. Opportunities include semester and academic year study abroad and a growing portfolio of short-term study and research abroad programs, such as the Global Research and Internship Program, Penn Global Seminars, and Penn Global Research Institutes. Visit their website to learn more about these global opportunities, hear from past participants, and explore the resources available to learn where Penn will take you. Begin My Journey Go Back hub Global Policy Engagement Perry World House is the hub for global policy engagement on Penn's campus. Located at 38th and Locust Walk, Perry World House provides unique opportunities for Penn students to gain experience and build skills and knowledge bridging the academic and policy worlds through its World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates programs. Perry World House also presents a full roster of workshops, colloquia, and public events for Penn students to engage with experts from the University and beyond. Connect with Perry World House Go Back travel_explore Penn's Global Campus Penn is home to 12 premier Schools with a global reach and over 60 University and School centers with a global focus, including Perry World House (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy & Global Engagement (Washington, DC), the Penn Wharton China Center (Beijing, China) and University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India (Delhi, India). Explore the many ways in which you can engage globally at Penn and beyond. Explore Penn's Global Campus Go Back group_work Global Student Clubs Penn is home to dozens of clubs for students with an interest in global affairs, including the Assembly of International Students (AIS), Graduate and Professional Student Assembly (GAPSA), and numerous multicultural groups. Explore the Penn Club portal to find your community on campus. Explore Global Penn Clubs ...and Beyond As global citizens and rising global leaders, we hope you leave the University comfortable to engage with people, cultures, and ideas from around the world and curious to deepen your understanding and pursuit of additional global experiences. As you begin your journey beyond Penn, we encourage you to explore the number of opportunities for students to continue their studies, begin their careers, or connect with peers through Penn's unparalleled global alumni network. Go Back menu_book Global Fellowships & Scholarships The Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships (CURF) supports all students as they pursue transformative experiences through fellowships, scholars programs, and undergraduate research. CURF promotes connections between faculty and students, encourages mentorship, and educates the Penn community about opportunities for all students and alumni. For those interested in pursuing international fellowships and scholarships, including but not limited to the Rhodes Scholarship, Marshall Scholarship, Gates Cambridge Scholarship, and Fulbright Grant, CURF is here to help! Explore International Fellowships & Scholarships Go Back work Global Internships & Careers Penn's Career Services helps students and alumni define their career goals, learn how to achieve them, and obtain post-graduate and internship positions as well as graduate and professional school admission. Career Services also establishes and promotes contact between Penn students and employers and graduate/professional schools. No matter your interest or affinity, Career Services is here to help you begin your search for a global career. Get Started Go Back school Penn's International Alumni Clubs Penn’s alumni network includes over 120 international regional clubs offering alumni the chance to reconnect, attend lively events and get involved in collaborative initiatives that impact people and communities. Connect with Penn Alumni Go Back menu_book Global Fellowships & Scholarships The Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships (CURF) supports all students as they pursue transformative experiences through fellowships, scholars programs, and undergraduate research. CURF promotes connections between faculty and students, encourages mentorship, and educates the Penn community about opportunities for all students and alumni. For those interested in pursuing international fellowships and scholarships, including but not limited to the Rhodes Scholarship, Marshall Scholarship, Gates Cambridge Scholarship, and Fulbright Grant, CURF is here to help! Explore International Fellowships & Scholarships Go Back work Global Internships & Careers Penn's Career Services helps students and alumni define their career goals, learn how to achieve them, and obtain post-graduate and internship positions as well as graduate and professional school admission. Career Services also establishes and promotes contact between Penn students and employers and graduate/professional schools. No matter your interest or affinity, Career Services is here to help you begin your search for a global career. Get Started Go Back school Penn's International Alumni Clubs Penn’s alumni network includes over 120 international regional clubs offering alumni the chance to reconnect, attend lively events and get involved in collaborative initiatives that impact people and communities. Connect with Penn Alumni 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy