Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Workshop: Leadership Practices Inventory Events Past Event Workshop: Leadership Practices Inventory Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 28, 2014 - November 29, 2014 4:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro The first half of this module provides leaders with the information they need to realize their full leadership potential. Prior to the session, leaders will have an opportunity to complete the Leadership Practices Inventory™-Self and submit feedback from staff under their supervision. An extensive 16-page report will be provided with an accompanying workshop. Participants will complete a workbook that will help them make the most of their LPI Feedback Report, appreciate how others see their leadership behavior and understand how to use that information to become the most effective leader possible. This module with supplementary text is about how leaders mobilize staff to want to get extraordinary things done in their organizations. It’s about the leadership required to transform values into actions, visions into realities, obstacles into innovations, separateness into solidarity and risks into rewards. This session helps leaders create the climate in which people turn challenging opportunities into remarkable success. The second half is a guided experience to assist leaders in the construction of their leadership development plan. During the first session, the participants will have gone through a series of activities to help them understand the information in their feedback report, make a short-term improvement plan and strategize on how to share the results. This section assists in the development of a long-range plan that is customized to meet individual needs. Cost: R$1400,00 Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro: Rua da Candelária 9, 3º andar, Centro. Target audience: executives, managers and supervisors in profit and non-profit organizations; Human Resources professionals. The candidate must have at least five years of experience in a leadership position and a recommendation letter from the responsible manager. Deadline: November 17, 2014 All lectures and discussions will be held in English, proficiency is required. For details and enrollment, please write to: [email protected] Learning Objectives and Benefits Building on emerging research and best practices, this workshop aims to: (1) provide leaders with a theoretical framework to understand their leadership practice within their organizations, (2) help leaders make the connection between their leadership style, practice and organizational effectiveness, and (3) develop a mindset of data-based reflection and action regarding leadership decisions and practices. Participants This course is designed for those who want to explore the use of emotional and social intelligence to foster learning in the workplace as leaders. Achievements By the end of this workshop, the participants would be able to: • Understand how members of their organization view them and their leadership practices. • Explore best practices for effective leadership • Align their self-leadership assessment with that of their colleagues • Manage their leadership practice to foster a better organizational climate • Build a personal leadership development action plan to improve organizational effectiveness Dr. Brian K. Perkins is the Director of the Summer Principals Academy - New Orleans at Teachers College, Columbia University. He is the former Chair and Professor of Education Law and Policy at Southern Connecticut State University in New Haven, Connecticut. Dr. Perkins successfully led both programs to full NCATE accreditation. Dr. Perkins is a distinguished Yale alumnus and was named a Timothy Dwight Fellow in 2004. He was a member of the research faculty at the Yale University School of Medicine. Dr. Perkins was an instructor at the Yale University Department of Chemistry and was awarded the distinguished teaching award for instruction in Inorganic Chemistry Problems. He has served as a consultant to school districts throughout the he U.S., Brazil, Israel, Thailand, the People’s Republic of China, India and the Republic of South Africa. Dr. Perkins has previously served as a visiting professor at the University of Pretoria in South Africa. Dr. Perkins is the host of his own Internet radio show, The Perkins Platform, which is a monthly forum on education leadership topics with thousands of listeners. Google Map Location Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close