Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Incoming Students > Courses Courses INCOMING EXCHANGE STUDENTS Participating Partner Universities Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application Contact Global Engagement All courses offered at The University of Tulsa are open to incoming students, provided that you have the prerequisite/background. Course Information Most courses are worth 3 US credits (that means 3 hours per week for 15 weeks for a total of 45 hours of instruction). Courses at the 1000 and 2000 levels are considered lower level and are more general. 3000 and 4000 levels are more specialized and usually only taken by students in that major/field. 5000 level or higher are for Graduate/Law students only. Graduate students can take undergraduate classes, but undergraduates can’t take 5000+ level classes unless they receive special permission from the Graduate or Law school. See the course bulletins to browse a full list of courses offered by the university: Undergraduate Course Descriptions Graduate Course Descriptions Uses the schedule of courses to see what courses are being offered in the coming terms: Schedule of Courses Grades are assigned in a letter scale. See examples of how US grades are converted to your country’s grade system. *Actual conversion will depend on your school or educational system. See definitions of commonly used academic terms. Course Registration As part of the online application, we will ask for a list of courses you are interested in taking. After you are accepted, we will be in contact by e-mail with the actual course registration. Your course list can then be finalized when you arrive on campus during the drop/add period. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT