Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Mellon Fellowship Program Mellon Fellowship Program In partnership with the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Columbia Global Centers | Amman has established the Mellon Fellowship Program to support emerging displaced scholars working in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. The goal of the program is to create opportunities for scholars to reintegrate into academia and resume their academic pursuits. Meet our 2022 Mellon Fellows Abdallah Sami Abolouz (Palestine) Abdallah's research interest areas include identifying formation and the intersection with socio-economic and political contexts. He has a deep interest in representation and intersection of queer theory and feminism with Islam and Muslim societies, and is interested in the academic freedom in our post-colonial middle east states and the influence of globalization and neoliberal economy upon the academia in our region. More about Abdallah Ferial Khalifa (Palestine) Ferial's research interests include religion, nationalism and gender in Arab cinema; Palestinian cinema and literature; biography and history; and critical and feminist theories. As part of the Mellon Fellowship Program, she is examining the extent to which Palestinian Post-Oslo Accords cinema mirrors an oppressive colonial reality but also disrupts that reality by creating a liberated space through which Palestinians maintain hope and “exist in the future”. More about Ferial Hassan Almohammed (Syria) Hassan is interested in French and Francophone Studies, visual culture, such as documentaries and photographic art, and in cultural studies of the Middle East and the Arab Word, media, communications and ecocriticism. As part of the Mellon Fellowship Program, he is completing his book project on the relationship between climate changes and the impact of the weather on literary writing. More about Hassan Mohammed Almahfali (Yemen) Mohammad’s research interests include Arabic discourse analysis, capacity-building in higher education and sustainable post-conflict recovery strategies to address the challenges in Yemen for the coming years. He has also been involved in work concerning how art and media can be used as tools to enhance democracy, gender equity and social justice in Yemen. More about Mohammad Almahfali Nael Hijjo (Palestine) Nael's research interests include Translation Studies, Discourse Analysis, Narrative Inquiry, Framing Theory, Intercultural communication and Middle Eastern Studies. As part of the Mellon Fellowship Program, he is examining the English media narratives of the ongoing armed conflict in the MENA region in general and in Syria, Libya, Iraq and Yemen in particular, as part of the international communication of conflicts across languages, cultures and nations. More about Nael Samar Shammas (Syria) Samar’s research focuses on material culture in the 2nd and 1st Millennia BCE in the Levant, and especially on pottery production in southern Syria during the Middle and Late Bronze Ages and other artefacts such as bone inlays. Her research through the Mellon Fellowship Program aims to shed more light on the Tell el-Yahudiyeh Ware discovered in Jordanian sites. More about Samar Eligible candidates are scholars in the humanities and humanistic social sciences who have been forcibly uprooted from their home countries and respective academic institutions. They could be graduate students who have had their education disrupted or post-doctoral scholars in the early stages of their careers. Creative writers, artists, and curators may also apply. Fellows will be expected to participate in scholarly presentations, workshops, and roundtable discussions. They will be connected to a global network of academics and scholars in Jordan, New York (from Columbia University), and beyond. Meet our 2021 fellows Meet our 2020 fellows Call for Applications for the Fellowship starting in January 2023 is now open. English version Arabic version Guidelines for Applicants Applicants for the fellowship starting January 2023 must submit a dossier that includes the following materials in English by July 2, 2022: A curriculum vitae that includes academic credentials and professional experience. A personal statement (two pages), which includes motivation for applying to this program, as well as a description of and reason for displacement. The statement should describe the applicant’s intellectual trajectory, career goals and teaching philosophy. A proposal describing the field of interest, academic work that will be undertaken during the 12-month fellowship and beyond, and broader potential significance of the applicant’s work. One to two writing samples/publications; Letter of recommendation from an academic colleague who is familiar with applicant’s previous work. Copies of academic transcripts. Terms and Conditions Fellows will receive a stipend of $25,000 USD that includes individual health insurance for the duration of the 12-month fellowship. They will be based at Columbia’s Global Center in Amman and will be provided with office space, access to meeting rooms and conference facilities, as well as IT equipment (including a computer device, internet connection, printer, scanner, phone line, and IT technical support). Fellows will have access to Columbia University’s online library resources as well as online courses at Columbia and other platforms. As part of the program, fellows will be matched with a relevant faculty member at Columbia University who will guide them throughout the year. Fellows are expected to be free of their regular commitments so that they may devote themselves to the work outlined in their proposal. Please note that fellows are responsible for their housing costs. We will offer travel and visa assistance where possible. How to apply? Please send all the materials listed above in a combined pdf file to: Abdelazim Sultan, Fellowship Program Coordinator, at [email protected] with the subject line: Application - Fellowship Program for Emerging Displaced Scholars by July 2, 2022. Questions? Scholars who are unable to complete their applications for reasons beyond their control, such as lack of access to computers, are welcome to contact the Columbia Global Centers | Amman for assistance. Please direct any inquiries regarding eligibility to Abdelazim Sultan, at [email protected]. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close