Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Fifth Women Leadership Panel Events Past Event The Fifth Women Leadership Panel Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 30, 2018 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Following Adena Friedman’s appointment as the CEO of Nasdaq in 2017, Stacey Cunningham was officially appointed as the 67th CEO of the New York Stock Exchange in May 2018, making her the first female CEO in the 226-year history of NYSE. Not only have they redefined the boundaries and roles that females have stepped into, but also drive change across their industry. As the well-known plaque stated on the statue Fearless Girl on the Wall Street, "Know the power of women in leadership. SHE makes a difference." On June 30, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will host its Fifth Women Leadership Panel with three Columbia alumnae who are also experienced professionals in the financial industry to share their stories and provide insights in this sector. The panelists are Yuzhen Liu (TC '13), Economist in Bank of China asset management department; Fei Qiao (SIPA '12), Special Assistant to Chairman and Vice President for Corporate Development at Huatai United Securities; Ruyun (Winnie) Yang (Math '13), Co-founder of πch Co., Chief Scientist of Advanced Fintech Institute. Join us for an engaging panel discussion with female leaders in the financial industry. We welcome young professionals and anyone who is interested in pursuing careers in the industry to come engage and network with the panelists. The panel will be moderated by Mudi Liang (TC '15), researcher in China Securities Regulation Committee. The Women Leadership Panel Series is initiated and hosted by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. It consists of a series of interactive panels designed to build an active network of Columbia alumni, especially female professional and leaders, to share learning, brainstorm ideas and approaches, address current challenges and opportunities, and support courageous and confident action. It will not only provide a platform to raise the profile of women professionals and leaders in various professions, but also build a dynamic circle for participants to learn from each other regarding issues and challenges, as well as to explore new paths to leadership and succeed even more. Panelists Yuzhen Liu, CFA Ms. Yuzhen Liu holds a master degree from Columbia University. She is Economist in Bank of China asset management department. Her research focuses on Macro and FICC. Ms. Liu has won several awards for macro economy and financial market forecasting from Foreign Exchange Administration and Capital Week. Fei Qiao Ms. Fei Qiao is now the Special Assistant to Chairman and Vice President for Corporate Development at Huatai United Securities. She participates in the construction and implementation of international strategies for the group, overseas M&A deals and integration, as well as new business development with a primary focus in the United States. Prior to joining Huatai United in 2014, she worked for the China Institute of Finance and Capital Markets under CSRC as a research associate. She graduated from Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs with a Master Degree in Public Administration. Ruyun (Winnie) Yang Ms. Ruyun Yang, Co-founder of πch Co., Chief Scientist of Advanced Fintech Institute, Ph.D. in Mathematics from Columbia University, was Vice President of Risk Controlling Department and Fund Manager at Born Asset Management Co., manager of Risk Monitoring Department at Capital Market Statistics & Monitoring Center which belongs to China Security Regulatory Commission. Moderator Mudi Liang Ms. Mudi Liang graduated from Columbia University with a master degree in Economics and Education, with a full scholarship from China Scholarship Committee, and formerly worked for World Bank and Colorado State Government. She now conducts researchers in China Securities Regulation Committee, with frontier regulation experience in Shanghai Stock Exchange. Ms. Liang advises big data projects in Reg-tech platforms, covering user profiling and US-China financial regulation policy comparative study. Her policy recommendations have been directly reported to senior officials in central government. Agenda 1:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Registration 2:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Panel Discussion 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Q&A Special Notice The event will be conducted in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code of confirmation. Please present the QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please leave us a message below or email to [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close