Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Panel Discussion for Entrepreneurship & CU 2017 New Student Send-off Gathering Events Past Event Panel Discussion for Entrepreneurship & CU 2017 New Student Send-off Gathering Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 16, 2017 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing EVENT INTRO On July 16 at 3p.m., the CEO and Partner of ZhenFund, Anna Fang will moderate a panel with venture capitalist Tony Jiang and entrepreneurs including David Zhu, WU Bing, and Andrew Hu to introduce their undertakings, share their experiences, and understandings on entrepreneurship as well as their insights about future development. There will be a Q&A session at the end of the panel, providing the audience with the opportunity to engage with panelists directly. After the panel, there will be an informal and free discussion with alumni and newly admitted students of Columbia University. Light refreshments and drinks will be provided. We cordially welcome your attendance at this event! SPEAKERS Anna Fang is the CEO and Partner of ZhenFund, an angel investment fund active in China's TMT sector. Anna oversees the fund's investments, portfolio, and operations. Since starting the fund in 2011 with Xu Xiaoping, Anna has managed over 300 of the fund's early stage investments. She also sits on the boards of many of ZhenFund’s investments. Before joining ZhenFund, Anna worked at GE China in Corporate Business Development, responsible for GE’s M&A and BD efforts in China. Anna started her career as an investment banker with J.P. Morgan in the New York office covering consumer and retail companies. Anna is an Advisory Board member of Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and also serves on the Board of Visitors of Columbia College. Anna is also the co-head of Stanford Graduate School of Business’ Beijing Chapter. Anna received her undergraduate degree from Columbia University, and a Master of Business Administration from Stanford Graduate School of Business. Tony Jiang is a Co-Founder & Partner at Ocean Link. He has over a decade of investment experience, and leads all investments in Ocean Link's portfolio. He is a board member of eLong, Qunar, Kaiyuan Hotel Group, Mind Education, and German Ruby Hotels & Resorts. Prior to founding Ocean Link, Mr. Jiang was with The Carlyle Group from 2006 to 2016 where he most recently served as a Director in the firm's corporate private equity division, focused on buyout opportunities in Asia. He received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Columbia University. David Zhu is the founder & CEO of ResumeHack, a start-up that helps college students with resume writing and career planning using machine learning. His previous startup experiences include an online marketplace for senior consumers and a finance job-search engine which reached series-B stages. Before becoming an entrepreneur, David worked as a venture partner at Younker Capital, an early-stage venture fund investing in the Internet space, where he led the investment in Kunter.com, an auto service O2O company which received series-B funding from Tencent. David was also an investment professional at Affinity Equity Partners (formerly UBS Capital Asia), a $3.9 billion PE fund. David started his career at Goldman Sachs under the Investment Banking Division in Hong Kong, focusing on cross-border M&A transactions. David is one of ZhenFund’s Entrepreneurs in Residence, a TEDx speaker, and a mentor of Tsinghua University’s Career Coaching Program. In his spare time, David enjoys traveling, coding, and playing the piano. David earned his B.A. in Economics from Columbia College, Columbia University. WU Bing worked at Barclays Capital in New York Wall Street, which is one of the largest multinational financial services institutions in the world, before returning to China to work as a presidential management fellow under the CEO in the leading GIS professional software company. Wu holds a Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering from Wuhan University of Science and Technology, and a Master's degree in Computer Science from Columbia University. Andrew Hu is the CEO of WonderMatrix. He was the co-founder of ProsperWorks in Silicon Valley. ProsperWorks is the top CRM for companies using Google and has raised 34 million dollars so far. Andrew used to work at Facebook and Microsoft in the US. He holds a MS in CS from Columbia University and a BS in CS from Zhejiang University. TIME July 16, 2017 Sunday 3：00 p.m. - 5：00 p.m. This event only opens to Columbia University newly admitted students, current students and CU alumni. Please provide you UNI, School and Year of Graduation when register. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close