Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Supportive Social Environment for Older Adults in China with Professor Jinyu LIU Events Past Event Supportive Social Environment for Older Adults in China with Professor Jinyu LIU Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 14, 2019 2:30 PM - 4:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Population aging is a global phenomenon due to increasing life expectancies and decreasing fertility rates. China is of particular interest to gerontologists because of the speed at which its population is aging and the tremendous changes that have taken place in the social and cultural roles of families during the past three decades. The individual–environment interactive model has been supported by abundant evidence from societies dominated by an individualist culture. However, it is still unclear to what extent the model works in family-oriented cultures and societies undergoing dramatic changes due to globalization, urbanization, and migration. On July 14, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to a public lecture entitled "Supportive Social Environment for Older Adults in China," the fourth event in the 2019 Columbia Beijing Summer East Asian Studies Series, in celebration of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute's 70th anniversary. The presentation will focus on the supportive social environment for older adults in China that features resources from multiple layers, including family, social connections, community, and social justice. In particular, Professor Jinyu LIU will present the results of her recent studies that explore the effects of friendship, spousal and intergenerational relationships, household context and community resources on mental health among rural and urban older adults in China. Speaker Dr. Jinyu LIU is an Associate Professor in Columbia University School of Social Work and is also on the faculty of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute. She earned her Ph.D. from the University of Iowa School of Social Work in 2013. Before joining Columbia in 2015, Dr. Liu completed her postdoctoral fellowship in the University of Michigan School of Social Work. Dr. Liu's research focuses stress of Chinese family caregivers and mental health of Chinese older adults. In her research on family caregiving, Dr. Liu explored how the mechanisms of the stress process unfold in the cultural and social contexts of Chinese family caregivers. The findings of her studies in this field provide invaluable guidance for health professionals and community service organizations in developing culturally congruent interventions to address stress of family caregivers in China. In her research on mental health of Chinese older adults, Dr. Liu have investigated the effects of resources and barriers at multiple layers of the social environment—including family, friendship, and neighborhood—on the mental health of older Chinese. Her research in this area offers crucial implications for developing social services that help strengthen the supportive social environments for older adults and improve their mental health, especially in family-oriented cultures and societies undergoing dramatic social, economic, cultural, and familial transformations. On both themes, she has produced substantive new knowledge that expands the existing literature and provides important and timely service implications for Chinese older adults. Dr. Liu has published a total of 27 publications in peer-reviewed journals and presented studies in various international conferences and institutes. Notice The event will be in English. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Registration begins 30 minutes prior to the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close