Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Our Team Merit E. Janow Merit E. Janow Merit E. Janow Dean; Professor of Professional Practice in the Faculty of International and Public Affairs My Contact Info 1414 International Affairs Building, Mail Code: 3328, United States 212-854-4604 [email protected] https://sipa.columbia.edu/faculty/merit-e-janow Merit E. Janow Research Interest International trade and investment, Asia, competition law, and economic globalization Merit E. Janow is an internationally recognized expert in international trade and investment, with extensive experience in academia, government, international organizations and business. In addition, she has had a life-long involvement with Asia and is an expert in that region. Merit E. Janow has been a Professor of Practice at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) and affiliated faculty at Columbia Law School since 1995. She teaches graduate courses in international trade/WTO law, comparative antitrust law, China in the global economy, international trade and investment policy, among others. She has held a number of leadership positions at the University. Currently, in addition to being Dean of SIPA, she is also Co-Director of the APEC Study Center and until recently Chair of the Faculty Oversight Committee of Columbia’s Global Center East Asia. Previously, she was Director of the Masters Program in International Affairs and Chair of Columbia University’s Advisory Committee on Socially Responsible Investing. Her research interests focus on international trade and investment, Asia, competition law and economic globalization. She has written several books, numerous articles and frequently speaks before business, policy, and academic audiences around the world. While at Columbia University, Professor Janow was elected in December 2003 for a four year term as one of the seven Members of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Appellate Body, which is the court of final appeal for adjudicating trade disputes between the 153 member nations of the WTO. She was the first female to serve on the Appellate Body. She was involved with over 30 appeals. While on the Appellate Body, she organized a series of global conferences with leading experts and senior government officials that focused on the Appellate Body, the international trading system and economic globalization. From 1997 to 2000, Professor Janow served as the Executive Director of the first international antitrust advisory committee of the U.S. Department of Justice that reported to the Attorney General and the Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust. Her report recommended the creation of a global network of enforcers and experts which is now the ICN. Prior to joining Columbia’s faculty, Professor Janow was Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Japan and China (1989-93). She was responsible for developing, coordinating and implementing U.S. trade policies with Japan and China. She negotiated more than a dozen trade agreements with Japan and China during a period of intense economic and political tension between the United States and both Japan and China. Professor Janow is on the Board of Directors of several corporations and not for profit organizations. In 2009, she became a charter member of the International Advisory Council of China’s sovereign wealth fund, China Investment Corporation or CIC. Early in her career, Professor Janow was a corporate lawyer specializing in cross-border mergers and acquisitions with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in New York and before becoming a lawyer, worked at a think tank where she focused on US-Japan trade and economic relations. She grew up in Tokyo, Japan, and is fluent in Japanese. She has a JD from Columbia Law School where she was a Stone Scholar, and a BA in Asian Studies with honors from the University of Michigan. She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral Commission. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close