Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Online Columbia Courses Online Columbia Courses [Columbia | SIPA] > Executive Education Program on Leading with Impact In today’s interconnected world, how can we lead and manage most effectively in the face of global challenges, crisis and disasters, funding constraints, and political and cultural tensions? Navigating such crises can become a defining moment for public officials, private sector executives, community organizers, and others in leadership positions. “Leading with Impact” equips you with the tools to prepare for, adapt to, and manage such complex challenges, and to inspire others to act. [GREAT NEWS: Picker Center will give a 10% discount on the tuition fee ($1,700) for all Brazilian students applying for this course, bringing the total fee to $1,530 per student.] Click HERE to know more! > Global Executive Masters of Public Administration Click HERE for exclusive content from Professor William B. Eimicke [Columbia Business School] > The Business of Aesthetics: What It Is, Why It Matters, and Why It Matters Now More than Ever In conversation with Professor Bernd Schmitt (Robert D. Calkins Professor International Business; Faculty Director, Center on Global Brand Leadership), Brown and Schmitt discuss what aesthetics is, how it applies to decision making, how it can transform businesses and leadership, and how it can be applied to a post-pandemic and socially conscious marketplace. Click HERE to watch now. > Reimagining Leadership for the New World of Business We are operating in a hyper-VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous) world today, and the traditional approach to leadership may no longer be effective for the future. In this webinar, Professor Hitendra Wadhwa will draw upon his research on the new science of human potential to describe a new approach that anchors you in your inner core and then invites you to lead by expressing your five core energies. Click HERE to watch now! > Analytics in the Time of Corona From pricing to credit, from fashion to aviation, analytics govern an ever-increasing part of our lives. Enormous strides in AI and machine learning have allowed these increasingly complex algorithms to leverage ever-larger dataset year after year. When the Coronavirus pandemic erupted earlier this year, many modeling efforts suddenly faced a world that looked nothing like the one they were designed to work in. In this session, our expert panelists discussed the ways they use data to drive their businesses, the challenges they faced when the pandemic hit, and the way forward as the world adapts to a new normal. Click HERE to watch now! > Tech Trends and the Remote Workplace with Tim Campos '11 Tim Campos ’11, CEO of calendar app Woven, discusses the drastic acceleration of remote work practices amid the COVID-19 pandemic, how the workplace might permanently change, ways employers can preserve company culture with a remote workforce, and more. Click HERE to know more! And more... Click HERE for: Free articles and webinars > Climate Finance and Policy in the COVID-19 Era Columbia University experts Jason Bordoff and Bruce Usher discuss climate finance and policy in the COVID-19 era. Click HERE to know more! [Coursera] > MOS Transistors Learn how MOS transistors work, and how to model them. The understanding provided in this course is essential not only for device modelers, but also for designers of high-performance circuits. Click HERE to know more! Click HERE for a complete list of 21 courses (6 free courses). You can also learn more about each one the courses HERE. [EDX] > Marketing Analytics Marketers want to understand and forecast how customers purchase products and services and how they respond to marketing initiatives. You will learn how to use probabilistic models and optimization tools to model customer demand forecasts, pricing sensitivity, Lifetime Value and how to leverage such data to make optimal decisions on designing new products, marketing segmentation and strategy. Click HERE to learn more. > Analytics in Python Learn the fundamental of programming in Python and develop the ability to analyze data and make data-driven decisions. Click HERE to learn more. > Machine Learning for Data Science and Analytics Learn the principles of machine learning and the importance of algorithms. Click HERE to learn more. > Seeking Women’s Rights: Colonial Period to the Civil War Learn about the emergence of women's history and its impact on the study of history as a whole. Then, examine the experiences of women in Colonial America. We will learn the ways that women struggled to loosen the constraints of family by proclaiming that they, like men, possessed individual rights. Click HERE to know more! > Wage Work for Women Citizens: 1870-1920 Departing from the Civil War years, examine how gender shaped women's work outside the home in the late 19th century. Explore efforts to affirm domesticity while providing women with paths to independence, and uncover how the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments impacted women’s political participation. Click HERE to know more! > Statistical Thinking for Data Science and Analytics Learn how statistics plays a central role in the data science approach. Click HERE to know more! > Risk & Return Learn how to measure the risk and return of equity and debt; and compute the weighted average of cost of capital. Click HERE to know more! > Free Cash Flow Analysis Learn how to use the free cash flow method for firm valuation and how to compute and project free cash flows. In this course, learners will begin to apply the lessons and concepts from Introduction to Corporate Finance as they begin to discuss basics of firm valuation. Click HERE to know more! > Indian & Tibetan River of Buddhism Explore an overview of the history and philosophy of Buddhism throughout India, South and Southeast Asia, Tibet, and Central Asia, featuring the basics of the Buddhist view of reality and its educational principles of sciences, mind and social ethics. Click HERE to know more! > Artificial Intelligence (AI) Learn the fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence (AI), and apply them. Design intelligent agents to solve real-world problems including, search, games, machine learning, logic, and constraint satisfaction problems. Click HERE to know more! > Enabling Technologies for Data Science and Analytics: The Internet of Things Click HERE to know more! > Inclusive Teaching: Supporting All Students in the College Classroom Click HERE to know more! > Fighting for Equality: 1950–2018 Click HERE to know more! [email protected] Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close