Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home SBTi Chinese Handbook Release and Training Workshop Events Past Event SBTi Chinese Handbook Release and Training Workshop Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 11, 2019 9:30 AM - 1:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing In recent years, we have seen the continual increase of natural disasters caused by climate change. It is recognized as one of the most pressing issues on this planet. Meanwhile, China has put forward the agenda of Eco-Civilization with utmost determination, improved and upgraded plans and actions, and created gigantic momentum to realize the sustainable development of environment. Based on the development tendency of the environment and ecological needs, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing has launched a project featuring sustainable development of environment, dedicated to apply the most advanced results of the University's research to the urgent challenges in the ecological environment of China. On September 11, the Beijing Center in collaboration with the World Wide Fund will host the SBTi Chinese Handbook Release and a training workshop. The event aims to invite institutions and companies to discuss the SBTi-related issues. WWF joined the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the World Resources Institute (WRI), and the UN Global Compact Project (UNGC) in September 2015 at the Paris Conference to launch the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) to help companies set up science-based emission reduction targets in line with the standard of decarbonization levels well below 2°C or 1.5°C in the fifth assessment report of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). As of August 2019, more than 600 companies worldwide have joined the initiative, 196 of which have officially released their approved emission reduction targets. Agenda 9:00 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. Registration 9:30 a.m. - 9:35 a.m. Opening remarks by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing 9:35 a.m. - 9:45 a.m. SBTi Chinese Manual Release ZHOU Fei, Deputy Director General, WWF China 9:45 a.m. - 10:15 a.m. The latest progress and application process of the SBTi Alexander FARSAN, Global Lead of SBT, WWF 10:15 a.m. - 10:50 a.m. Business case sharing 10:50 a.m. - 11:30 a.m. Group discussion 11:30 a.m. - 11:50 a.m. Q&A 11:50 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Closing remarks 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. Buffet Notice The event will be in English with simultaneous interpretation in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Walk-ins are not allowed for this event. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please leave us a message below or email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close