Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad January 19, 2022 By: Edward Acie Trimble When thinking of studying abroad, one generally conjures up images of a new country to see, a new culture to explore, new people to meet, and new foods to try. I know that I had those same expectations for my study abroad plans. However, what was already a foregone conclusion in my head had to make a drastic change because of COVID-19. Now, given the severity of the pandemic and the fact that meeting people was potentially hazardous, I had two options, both of which seemed nonoptimal at the time. I could completely dismiss my study abroad dreams and do nothing, or I could study abroad virtually. As a premed student who is not apt to pass up an opportunity, I went with the latter. In the best case scenario, the virtual program would be comparable to an in-person one. In the worst, I would still experience something new and talk with people from halfway around the world, all while being in the comfort of my own home. Regardless, it would be something unique that most people cannot say they have done. The program itself was centered in Nicosia, Cyprus, and involved a credit granting course on medical terminology, interactions with several types of healthcare workers, and application guidance for professional schools. Since it occurred in the summer and was more flexible with its virtual format, the program would not conflict with my required premed courses and outside extracurriculars/responsibilities. Not only that, but with the funding I was able to secure with the Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship and the study abroad grants offered by the University of Tulsa, the program would be financially accessible. It seemed like a win-win situation to me. Due to time zone differences, the program had me waking up at 6 am everyday. But with a cup of tea and my dog to keep awake, I made it work. I was glad that I did, as the program was helpful to say the least. Starting with the terminology course, I got to learn the terms and shorthand abbreviations used by cardiologists, pulmonologists, gastrologists, etc. and apply them to daily patient case studies. Additionally, I was taught how to conduct a mental status assessment and how to manually take blood pressure and heart rate using a stethoscope and sphygmomanometer. Through talking with a Cypriot physician, I learned of the issues that may arise when communicating with patients from different cultures, and how Cypriots specifically lose trust in physicians when they ask for the patient’s thoughts regarding health and treatment. Sprinkled throughout the course were career advising sessions, in which I received feedback on crafting my medical school personal statement and possible interview scenarios. It wasn’t all just hard work. Lessons on history, music and food were given so that participants could get a taste of what it was like to be in Cyprus. Quite literally. Although it was not exactly perfect, I did my best to follow instructions from a chef at a local Cypriot restaurant known as Zanettos. I cooked up chicken souvlaki, a dish consisting of pita bread, grilled chicken, yogurt, onion, yellow pepper, and haloumi cheese. Overall, I can say that I was satisfied with studying abroad virtually. Sure, I wish I could have physically gone to Nicosia, but this was a suitable alternative. I still got to learn about a new country, meet new people, get an edge on preparing for medical school despite my busy premed schedule, and even eat new foods! There are plenty of opportunities out there and financial aid available to make them possible, such as the Gilman Scholarship. It only takes a little courage and the willingness to give things a chance, even if they are not initially what you had planned for. Global Education GLOBAL EDUCATION: LIFE ABROAD Recent Posts Meet the 2022 Global Graduates Statement on the situation in Ukraine Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! Study abroad in Ghana 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT