Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Health & Safety Health & Safety EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs The Center for Global Engagement takes seriously issues affecting our students’ health and safety while abroad. It is a reality that international travel is risky, and it is impossible for us to foresee or prevent every emergency. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our students studying abroad by: Providing them with accurate and timely information about ways to minimize risks when they travel abroad and how to respond to emergencies when they happen. Regularly reviewing programs with which we are affiliated to ensure they meet nationally accepted standards for safety and security for study abroad. Giving students information about how to stay safe and healthy while abroad through our handbooks and pre-departure orientations. Providing AIG Global Travel Assistance Services while abroad to have 24/7 emergency response in a variety of situations including emergency evacuation. Requiring students to maintain health insurance sufficient to cover the specific needs associated with international travel. Staying in regular communication with students while they are abroad to quickly respond to major and minor emergencies. If families have any concerns for the safety of their children abroad, contact the CGE at 918-631-3229 or globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Methods for Communicating Health and Safety Issues We have several methods for communicating health and safety concerns with our study abroad students: Pre-departure Preparation The CGE has a created a series of videos that students should complete as part of an online pre-departure preparation program. Also, the CGE sponsors a mandatory pre-departure meeting each semester for outgoing study abroad participants where we review how to prepare for time abroad. CGE International Programs Handbook The CGE International Programs Handbook is available online as part of the CGE online application. Paper copies are available at the CGE for students to pick up and during pre-departure preparation. Emergency Contact Lists We maintain records with contact information for all of our students who are out of the country. Once students know their travel plans and have their on-site contact information, they should log into their CGE account to add it. Students will be asked to provide their address, phone/cell number and flight information. It is the students’ responsibility to provide this information to the CGE. AIG Global Travel Assistance Services TU partners with AIG to provide a global assistance service with accident, illness and medical insurance. All TU students, faculty and staff traveling abroad on TU programs or business are automatically covered under the university’s plan. AIG responds to critical medical or safety emergencies and can also help resolve non-critical day to day travel problems any time you are traveling outside your home country on TU programs or business. REVIEW THE AIG BROCHURE AIG 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT