Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home How are China’s Companies Responding to China’s 2060 Carbon Neutrality Goal? Events Past Event How are China’s Companies Responding to China’s 2060 Carbon Neutrality Goal? Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 29, 2021 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM Online Time: 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM (Beijing) | 8:00 AM - 9:30 AM (New York) Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and the Center on Global Energy Policy (CGEP) at Columbia SIPA invite you to attend a webinar that will feature key findings of CGEP scholars' recent reports followed by a moderated discussion with Chinese sector experts. In September 2020, Chinese President Xi Jinping announced that China would strive to peak CO2 emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. The neutrality goal, in particular, was a breakthrough for global climate ambitions: a net-zero target from a country responsible for roughly one-quarter of global GHG emissions, more than any other country. Meeting these aims, however, will demand a dramatic transformation of China’s economy, and especially of emissions-intensive sectors in energy and heavy industry that have fueled decades of rapid growth. China’s leading firms in these sectors are global giants, responsible for significant shares of GHG emissions in sectors from oil and gas to cement. How are they reacting to the climate challenge? The Center on Global Energy Policy is preparing to release a pair of reports on this issue. One report, by Dr. Erica Downs, analyzes how Chinese oil and gas firms are preparing for a lower-carbon future. The other report, by Edmund Downie, examines early responses to the peaking and neutrality pledges from Chinese firms in coal power, steel, and cement. In partnership with China Low Carbon Association, Carbon 100 Network. Speakers Dr. Erica Downs is a Senior Research Scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University SIPA, focusing on Chinese energy markets and geopolitics. Dr. Downs has a distinguished career in Eurasian energy policy with a focus on China. She has over 15 years of experience working in the public and non-profit sectors. She previously worked as a senior research scientist in the China Studies program of the CNA Corporation, a senior analyst in the Asia practice at Eurasia Group, a fellow in the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution, an energy analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency, and a lecturer at the Foreign Affairs College in Beijing, China. Dr. Downs has managed more than 50 publications in the areas of Chinese energy production and development and its geopolitical positioning. She holds a Ph.D. and an M.A. from Princeton University and a B.S. from the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. Edmund (Ned) Downie is a Ph.D. Candidate at Princeton University School of Public and International Affairs. He is also a non-resident fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia SIPA working on the political economy of decarbonization, with a focus on Asia. He previously served as an analyst at Analysis Group in the energy and finance practice areas, with major casework including New York energy-market modeling and long-term power purchase agreement valuation. He was a Fulbright Scholar at Yunnan University in southwest China in 2017-18, studying Chinese energy trade with Southeast Asia, and a Yale University Gordon Grand Fellow in 2014-15 in India at the Center for Policy Research (Delhi) and the Center for Studies in International Relations at Development (Kolkata). He holds an MPhil in International Relations from Nuffield College, Oxford (Marshall Scholar) and a B.A. in Ethics, Politics, and Economics from Yale (Phi Beta Kappa). David Sandalow is the Inaugural Fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy and co-Director of the Energy and Environment Concentration at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. He founded and directs the Center’s U.S.-China Program and is author of the Guide to Chinese Climate Policy. He teaches a one-month short course each year as a Distinguished Visiting Professor in the Schwarzman Scholars Program at Tsinghua University. Currently, he serves on the Faculty Advisory Committee of Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. Mr. Sandalow has chaired the ICEF Innovation Roadmap Project since 2015. In that capacity, he has led development of roadmaps on biomass carbon removal and storage, industrial decarbonization, direct air capture and carbon dioxide utilization, among other topics. In 2020, Mr. Sandalow and colleagues co-founded the Food-Climate Partnership. He is lead author of the Food and Climate Change InfoGuide (CGEP, May 2021). Dr. Jufeng Li is a professor-level senior engineer currently working at the Research Institute of Safety & Environment Technology of the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Dr. Li graduated from the CNPC Research Institute of Petroleum Exploration and Development, majoring in oil-gas storage and transportation engineering. He has been committed to pollutant emission reduction and green low-carbon action in the petroleum and petrochemical industry for 23 years. His researches mainly focus on the causes and source control technology of pollutants and environmental monitoring. Dr. Jingmin Wang is a professor, master supervisor, and associate dean of the International School of Low-Carbon Studies at Shandong University of Finance and Economics. Her research interests include low-carbon economy and sustainable development, corporate strategy, and social responsibility. She participated in the compilation of a five-year energy conservation plan at both provincial and municipal levels and the research report on central enterprises' pathway to achieving China's 'dual carbon' goals. She is currently the host of the Monthly Review of China's Carbon Trading Market program. Ye (Agnes) Li is a manager at RMI's Beijing office working on green hydrogen development and heavy industry zero-carbon transition under the China Energy Transition team, in partnership with the Energy Transitions Commission. She is one of the core authors of China 2050: A Fully Developed Rich Zero-Carbon Economy. Agnes has participated in global projects on green steel, hydrogen roadmap, zero-carbon investment, and more. Prior to working in Energy Transition team, Agnes also worked on helping cities develop carbon peaking strategies and actions. She joined RMI in June 2017. Reminders Event language: English If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close