Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home X-Raying Turkey: Current Realities and New Aspirations Events Past Event X-Raying Turkey: Current Realities and New Aspirations Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 7, 2019 6:00 PM - 7:30 PM Riverside Church, 91 Claremont Ave, 10th Floor Lounge This panel will explore Turkey at yet another pivotal point in its history – given the recent political and economic crises as well as regional pressures – and aims to uncover streams of challenges and opportunities for the country in 2020 and beyond. We will investigate the current realities of Turkey, in terms of its state on democracy, economy and international relations. We will also share the most recent public opinion statistics on the key issues impacting Turkey and the region. The March and June municipal elections have propelled a political wind of change in Turkey, with main cities including the jewels in the crown- Istanbul and Ankara- seeing a shift in voting preferences. However, interruptions to democracy continue both at the municipal and national levels, with fractious approaches becoming more everyday realities. Turkish civil society, academia, media and legislature also continue to feel this sense of enclosure. The pressure is equally felt in the international arena. For decades, Turkey has been a key ally of the United States, and at the turn of the century became an E.U. accession country. However, the backdrop of weakened U.S.-Turkish relations, a European Union much removed from Turkey, refugee influx in the millions from Syria, and a new alliance with Russia, a centuries old foe, is a significant change of scenery. With the Transatlantic alliance in shambles, Turkey’s strategic identity as a Western country is being put to question both domestically and internationally. Turkey’s recent incursion into Syria is yet another episode adding to the complexity of the equation. Seating is limited and first come, first served. Registration does not guarantee seating; early arrival is suggested. Entrance will be prohibited after capacity is reached. Expand all Collapse all Panelists Ayşe Kadıoğlu Ayşe Kadıoğlu is Professor of Political Science at Sabancı University since 1998. She was the Acting President of Sabancı University and the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at Sabancı University. She will be a Visiting Scholar at Columbia University, Sakıp Sabancı Center for Turkish Studies during the 2019-2020 academic year. She is a Fellow at Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Carr Center for Human Rights Policy. Her fields of research are migration and citizenship studies, new authoritarian regimes, comparative nationalisms, early twentieth century liberalism in Turkey, and Turkish secularism. Soli Özel Soli Özel holds a BA in Economics from Bennington College (1981) and an MA in International Relations from Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS, 1983). Mr. Özel was a Bernstein Fellow at the Schell Center for Human Rights at Yale Law School and a visiting lecturer in the Political Science Department of Yale University in the Spring of 2019. He is a senior lecturer at Kadir Has University. He has been a columnist at Habertürk and Sabah newspapers. He held fellowships at Oxford, the EU Institute of Strategic Studies and was a Fisher Family Fellow of the “Future of Diplomacy Program” at the Belfer Center of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He taught at SAIS, University of Washington, Northwestern University and Hebrew University. He was a Richard von Weizsacker fellow at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin between 2015-2017 and a visiting fellow at Institut Montaigne in Paris in 2018. Can Selçuki Can Selçuki holds an MSc degree in Economics from Bocconi University. Before co-founding Istanbul Economics, a public opinion and big data firm, Mr. Selçuki worked as an economist at the World Bank Ankara Office working both with the public and private partners in private sector development. His work at the World Bank focused on regional development, competition and innovation policies. Prior to working at the World Bank, Mr. Selçuki worked as an economics researcher at the Brussels based think tank, Centre for European Policy Studies (CEPS), for three years. He is the author of several papers and reports on trade competitiveness, regional development and innovation policy in Turkey. He is a frequent commentator on Turkey and the region in print and visual media such as BBC World News and the Financial Times, and regularly writes on the Turkish economy and politics in Turkish and international print such as Foreign Policy. This event is part of a yearlong 10-event series celebrating the Columbia Global Centers' 10th anniversary. Click here to learn about the other events in this series. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close