Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Returning Students Returning Students EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs From the ends of the earth, back to the “Center of the Universe!” Learning how to live your TU life again after experiences that have changed your worldview are often an over-looked part of the study abroad process. Bringing your international experiences back to campus, integrating the things you learned abroad into your campus life, and learning how to talk about your time in another country are all important parts of re-entry. The Center for Global Engagement aims to help returning students achieve competency in the following areas: Discussion: Speaking publicly and thoughtfully about experiences abroad and other cultures Professional Development: Applying study abroad to resumes, job interviews, and networking Engagement and Advocacy: Getting involved locally with causes that have international influence Campus Leadership: Joining the TU international community and encouraging others who aspire to study abroad Discussion Life Abroad Blog: Submit a blog post while abroad or upon returning about your experiences. Articles can focus on any part of your experience and are usually around 600 works. Submit blog entries to morgan-hopson@utulsa.edu. Study Abroad Photo Contest: Every spring the CGE hosts a photo contest for students who have gone or are currently abroad. Students will receive an email inviting them to submit photos in early March. Top three winners in each category will receive cash prizes and their photos will be used in CGE marketing. For questions, email globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Class presentations: It is highly encouraged that students give a presentation for a class in their academic program upon returning. This allows students with similar academic goals to begin to envision and plan their own time abroad. CGE Peer Advisors present in dozens of classes each semester. To join a presentation with a Peer Advisor, email globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Professional Development Career Services: Career Services offers many opportunities to plan for post-graduate life, including resume workshops and mock interviews. Program Provider Ambassadors: If you studied abroad through a program provider you can apply to be a Program Representative or Ambassador for TU. Though it varies for each provider, responsibilities often include a certain number of volunteer hours, a sponsored event that you can plan with the CGE, and being present at TU’s Study Abroad Fair in the fall to talk to students interested in studying abroad. Engagement and Advocacy International Education Week Committee: Celebrated in the spring, IEW aims to unite the TU campus in celebrating international education and values. If you are interest in being a member of the IEW Committee and assisting with planning, email globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Phi Beta Delta: If you are interested in becoming a founding member of Phi Beta Delta, the interdisciplinary academic and professional society for international scholars, email globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Tulsa Global Alliance: TGA is a non-profit volunteer organization that connects people, companies, families, organizations and students from Tulsa and Oklahoma with the rest of the world. You can volunteer for a specific event or to help welcome international visitors to Tulsa. Campus Leadership Exchange Buddies: Each semester, TU receives students from partner institutions. They are matched up with a TU student Exchange Buddy who assists them in getting involved on campus, shows them around, and introduces them to American college life. For questions or to apply, email globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Peer Advising: Every August, the CGE hires 4-6 Peer Advisors to work part-time in the office to assist with advising students, giving presentations, planning events, and other duties. Returnees will receive an email to apply at the end of the summer. For questions, contact Laura Semenow. Stay Connected Be sure to follow the Center for Global Engagement’s social media to keep up with events, opportunities, and stories from fellow study abroad alumni: Facebook.com/TulsaCGE Instagram: @utulsaglobalengagment LOOKING TO GO ABROAD AGAIN? Explore Non-Credit Bearing Opportunities 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT