Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home 2019 Columbia - Yale Beijing Alumni New Year Gala Events Past Event 2019 Columbia - Yale Beijing Alumni New Year Gala Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 19, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On January 19, 2019, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the Columbia - Yale Beijing Alumni New Year Gala. The Gala is organized by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, Columbia Alumni Association, Columbia Alumni Association of Beijing, and Yale Club of Beijing. Artists Chu Yi-Bing was the last student of Maurice Gendron, the great French master at the Conservatoire National Supérieur de Musique in Paris. In 1986, Chu was the prize winner of the 42nd Concours International d’Exécution Musicale in Geneva, becoming the first Chinese cellist ever to win a prize in an important international Cello competition. In 1987, Chu graduated from the Conservatory in Paris with a Premier Prix. From 1989 to 2004, Chu was principal cellist of the Basel Symphony Orchestra in Switzerland. He was also the guest principal cellist of the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra from 1999 to 2004. Chu Yi-Bing Cello Ensemble has played for several leaders of China and many other nations. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, Chu Yi-Bing planned and organized SuperCello, the first Full-Day Classic Music Festival in China. Polish-born pianist and harpsichordist Magdalena Baczewska is a concert artist, educator, recording artist, producer, and administrator. Having performed as soloist with the San Francisco Symphony, China National Symphony, and Macao Symphony, among others, she has also shared the stage with violinist Joshua Bell, and enjoys an extensive collaboration with the Oscar and Grammy Award-winning composer Tan Dun. She has appeared in major concert halls around the world, and as a masterclass artist in the Beijing Central Conservatory; International Keyboard Institute and Festival (NYC); New York University; Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts, among others. Baczewska holds Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees from Mannes College The New School for Music and her doctorate from the Manhattan School of Music. Baczewska is the Director of the Music Performance Program and Lecturer in Music at Columbia University, as well as Artistic Director of the Kosciuszko Foundation Chopin Piano Competition in New York. Baczewska is a Yamaha Artist. Yibiao Wang CC is a classical multi-instrumentalist. Mr. Wang began playing the flute and piano in 2005. He has made numerous international performances, including frequent performances at venues such as Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center. His past accolades include the Young Arts Finalist award (highest distinction) and first prize in the New York Flute Club Young Musicians’ Contest. Yibiao has also made numerous appearances on television shows on networks including PBS and BBC. Yibiao joined the National Youth Orchestra of the USA in 2015, performing alongside Charles Dutoit and Yundi Li on the orchestra’s sold-out tour in China. In addition to performing, Mr. Wang is an educator and arts manager. He previously served as Orchestra Mentor in the Juilliard Pre-College Division, and now serves as Orchestra Manager. Mr. Wang currently studies music and business management at Columbia University, and flute at the Juilliard School. Jingyi Song BC is a student of pianist and harpsichordist Magdalena Baczewska and is currently a Mathematics-Computer Science major at Columbia. Jingyi started playing the piano at age 4. She has performed extensively and has won top prizes at competitions in Singapore, Australia, and the U.S. Jingyi was a recipient of the prestigious full scholarship offered by Singapore Ministry of Education, and was accepted to the Melbourne Conservatorium of Music and Melbourne University dual degree program after high school. She entered Melbourne University to study mathematics and computer science, and later transferred to Barnard College of Columbia University. In addition, she studies percussion with New York City Ballet Orchestra principal timpani Ian Sullivan. Jingyi plays piano and percussion with many ensembles in the Columbia Music Performance Program. Graduating with a Master of Music and Artist diploma degree from Yale School of Music in 2015, Graduating with a Master of Music and Artist Diploma Degree from the Yale School of Music in 2015, Wenbin Jin received two of the most prestigious school awards: the Elizabeth Parisot Prize for Best Pianist and the Yale School of Music Alumni Association Prize for the most outstanding graduating student. Since 2016, he has been serving as Associate Director of the Performing Arts Center at Beijing Keystone Academy. He has won many major top prizes, including the China Shanghai International Piano Competition and the China Golden Bell National Piano Competition. Wenbin Jin has performed in prestigious venues, such as the Lincoln Center, the JFK Center for the Performing Arts, and the Chinese National Center for the Performing Arts. In addition to solo activity, Mr. Jin is also well-known as a collaborative pianist and chamber musician. A keen chamber musician, Shawn was a founding member of the Kalmia String Quartet, which performed and recorded numerous works by American composer Joseph Summer, and can be heard on Parma and Albany Records. As a solo artist, Shawn makes regular appearances at the Geneva Music Festival and the Bard Music Festival, concerts and music festivals in China, Korea and Thailand, and other engagements throughout the world. As an admissions officer for Bard College, Shawn has had firsthand experience of the challenges associated with providing access to quality education, musical and otherwise. A graduate of Bard College and Yale University, Shawn holds degrees in both music and Asian Studies, and speaks Mandarin and Korean. Hailed by the Weekly Music magazine for his “Impeccably logical but also vivid, emotional playing”, Mo Mo has already established himself as one of the leading cellists of his generation. In recent years, he has collaborated with China National Symphony Orchestra, Beijing Symphony Orchestra, Zhejiang Symphony Orchestra and Greater Boston Asian American Youth Orchestra, under the baton of Maestro Tan Dun, Maestro Lihua Tan and Maestro Yi Zhang. He has performed in venues such as Carnegie Hall, Kennedy Center in Washington D.C., Beijing Concert Hall, National Center for Performing Arts in Beijing, Jordan Hall in Boston and the Fontainebleau Palace in Paris. Mo Mo is a prize winner at international competitions such as the 2016 Schoenfeld International String Competition in Harbin, China, and the 2017 Koussevitzky Young Artist Award in New York. He is also a recipient of the Aldo Parisot Prize from Yale University, where he studied with Mr. Aldo Parisot. Bo Li has received his Master of Music Degree at Yale University, School of Music, and MBA at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. He has been served as Co-Principal Viola at Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra for many years, where he had great opportunities to work with world-renowned musicians, such as Yo-Yo Ma. Gil Shaham, Vladimir Ashkenazy and Maxim Vengrov. He gave the China premiere of the complete viola version of the Bach Unaccompanied Cello Suites in 2005, which was positively received by local media and audience. He has also a prize winner of several International Music Competitions, and has been interviewed by domestic and international media and magazines. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close