Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Are you ready to study abroad? Events Past Event Are you ready to study abroad? Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 12, 2019 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On January 12, 2019, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the documentary screening Crossroads of Journalism Dreams and a book talk on Beyond the Sea -- Chinese Millennials in America. There will be a dialogue session with director Xiaoran Liu JRN '13 and author Yuanxin Liao. About Crossroads of Journalism Dreams There are less than ten Chinese students every year accepted by Columbia Journalism School. With a Chinese journalism educational background, they go to New York to study American journalism. Adapting themselves to new life, they also need to deal with big differences between the two journalism genres. Disappointed and depressed, they begin to doubt the choice of learning journalism in America and they think about quitting school. Upon graduation, they seem to stand at an intersection with double choices as well as double confusion. Staying in America, work visa, culture and language are all insurmountable obstacles; Back to China, they will face a totally different work environment. Will they be accepted by Chinese mainstream media? STAY or GO BACK? As one of them, director Xiaoran Liu tells the story of her and her friends in the 68-min documentary. There have been screenings in Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Chongqing, Hong Kong, New York and Washington DC Xiaoran Liu JRN '13 is a Chinese multimedia journalist and documentary filmmaker based in Beijing and New York City, graduated from Tsinghua University and Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. She founded MiZi Studio to work with CCTV, Phoenix TV, Travel TV, Sun Media, Tencent, Sina etc on documentaries, TV programs and short video. Her work is also shown on PBS, BBC and Narratively. Her independent documentaries have been selected by Sydney World Film Festival, Manhattan independent film festival, Hong Kong Arthouse Film Festival and China Academy Awards of Documentary Film. About Beyond the Sea -- Chinese Millennials in America In 2017, more than 600,000 Chinese students set foot on foreign campuses for the first time in their lives. Different from their predecessor in the 80s and 90s, who were financially strained and impressed by almost everything overseas, the latest generation of Chinese students embarks on a new stage of life with a different mindset. Born between 1985 and 2000, the Chinese millennials are raised in an ever-changing society with unfettered optimism and faint memories of the country’s painful past. Unlike their future classmates, the new generation does not have siblings vying for their parents’ attention, and survival in their homeland entails wading through a competitive, exam-driven K-12 education system. When these Chinese students show up at the doorstep of foreign universities, how do they cope with challenges in a completely new environment? What are the sources of their joy and sorrow, and how do they adjust to and integrate in a different culture? What factors motivate them to settle down abroad as opposed to going back home after graduation? To answer these questions, Yuanxin Liao visited more than 30 colleges, universities, and high schools in the United States between December 2015 and May 2018, interviewing over 100 Chinese students and young professionals who were studying, working, and living in America. Through the lens of anthropology, he acquired an intimate knowledge about how Chinese millennials grow, struggle, and explore new identities on the other side of the Pacific. His findings and reflections formed the foundation of his critically acclaimed Chinese Millennials in America. This 324-page lively description of myriad life experiences among Chinese overseas students has sparked much discussion among educators, parents, and future generations of students. Yuanxin Liao is an associate global risk analyst with the British consulting firm Control Risks. After graduating from the University of Maryland (UMD) in 2015, he worked at Columbia University's Initiative for Policy Dialogue (IPD) as a research assistant and later joined the prestigious news agency Caixin as a business reporter. In addition to the newly-published nonfiction Chinese Millennials in America, his publications also include a 250-page fiction published in 2011. Liao holds a B.A. degree in politics, philosophy and economics (PPE) from Peking University and a master’s degree in public policy from UMD. Agenda 2:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Registration 3:00 p.m. - 3:42 p.m. Documentary Screening 3:42 p.m. - 4:05 p.m. Book Talk 4:05 p.m. - 4:35 p.m. Dialogue 4:35 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Q&A Special Notice The event will be conducted in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Registration begins 30 minutes prior to the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close