Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Africa needs to do more to position itself to benefit from future Covid-19 vaccines. Nairobi Africa needs to do more to position itself to benefit from future Covid-19 vaccines. Never before has the public had an opportunity to see, in glaring detail, the difference good governance makes. As Covid-19 spreads across the globe, we witness how different leaders address the same crisis. Some have the skills, qualities and appetite required to best guide their countries through the crisis, while others demonstrate their incompetence on a near-daily basis. By Lawrence R Stanberry and Wilmot G James September 08, 2020 Covid-19 vaccine trials at Baragwanath hospital in Johannesburg. (Photo: Gallo Images / Felix Dlangamandla) Never before has the public had an opportunity to see, in glaring detail, the difference good governance makes. As Covid-19 spreads across the globe, we witness how different leaders address the same crisis. Some have the skills, qualities and appetite required to best guide their countries through the crisis, while others demonstrate their incompetence on a near-daily basis. In addressing the threat of a highly contagious respiratory virus like SARS-CoV-2, there are basic approaches that can slow the spread of the pandemic and eventually end it. This includes testing, quarantining, physical distancing, avoiding large crowds, wearing masks and, when available, widespread uptake of safe and effective vaccines. Great wealth does not ensure that a nation will successfully implement these strategies. The United States, the richest nation in the world, has failed to adequately respond to the pandemic, and in doing so has one of the highest Covid-19 death rates in the world – 540 deaths per million people – with total deaths currently standing at 181,000 people. This figure accounts for over 20% of all Covid-19 deaths worldwide. Contrast the American experience to other countries: South Africa stands at 214 deaths per million people; Norway at 49; New Zealand at 4; and Rwanda at 0.8 deaths per million. What explains the difference? Francis Fukuyama in Foreign Affairs (July/August 2020) identifies three factors responsible for success: state capacity, social trust, and leadership. He wrote that, “Countries with all three – a competent state apparatus, a government that citizens trust and listen to, and effective leaders – have performed impressively, limiting the damage they have suffered.” Regime type – whether autocratic or democratic – does not seem to matter, at least not with respect to mounting a successful pandemic response. Africa came late to Covid-19. In the words of the director of the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), John Nkengasong, it was “a delayed pandemic”. Many feared a looming catastrophe. The World Health Organisation (WHO) Joint External Evaluation (JEE) and the Global Health Security Index (2019) gave Africa’s 54 countries low scores on average for disease detection as well as preparedness and response, notwithstanding some considerable pockets of excellence developed in response to previous outbreaks like HIV and Ebola. A delayed arrival of Covid-19 gave African governments time to learn from the mistakes of countries with earlier outbreaks. Supported by the WHO and Africa CDC, and fearing their health systems would be overwhelmed, leaders in countries like South Africa mobilised and scaled up fast with universal lockdowns and travel bans to slow the pandemic. Many other countries – not all – emulated South Africa’s response. That was, of course, just the start. Lockdowns are hard to sustain. What must follow is trusted leaders encouraging citizen engagement in best personal practices; maintaining social distancing, avoiding crowds and adhering to masking, particularly in the vast informal settlements associated with Africa’s cities. Testing, tracing and isolation tools were introduced, led also by South Africa, which has approximately 652,700 cases out of Africa’s 1.2 million, the latter figure likely a substantial underestimate. The WHO recommends that the positive test rate be below 10% for testing capacities to be considered sufficient, according to recent reports from Africa CDC and the WHO – yet few AU countries can meet this threshold. The results of local and national testing programmes are critical gauges of the state of the pandemic, and inform leaders and the public as to whether they can relax control measures or whether they need to redouble their efforts. The ultimate control of the pandemic likely rests with the development and widespread use of safe and effective vaccines. There are several promising vaccines on the horizon. It is critical that Africa begins planning for and building the infrastructure needed for the distribution and administration of the vaccines. Delays will result in countless unnecessary deaths. What needs to be done? There must be more focus on best practices to: Build stronger local leadership; drive up community commitment to social distancing; ensure masking and other measures are under personal control; communicate better and build trust; scale up testing, tracing and isolation; prepare for access to vaccines and distribution systems. Africa must scale up, be bolder and do better. This is vital if we are to ensure every African has access to any future Covid-19 vaccines. Tags Nairobi Press COVID-19 Pandemic Nairobi Education News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close