Harvard Global Health Institute MENUMENU About Our Work Team Steering Committee Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Land Acknowledgement Domains Pandemics Climate & Health Tech & Health Misinformation Systems of Oppression Mental Health Opportunities Fellowships Student Engagement Careers News Stories Events Global Health Hub About ▼ Our Work Team Steering Committee Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Land Acknowledgement Domains ▼ Pandemics Climate & Health Tech & Health Misinformation Systems of Oppression Mental Health Opportunities ▼ Fellowships Student Engagement Careers News ▼ Stories Events Global Health Hub Pioneering the next generation of global health research, education, and policy LEARN MORE ABOUT HGHI Monkeypox: Information & Resources May 20, 2022 [This page will be updated as information emerges] Over the past few weeks, clusters of monkeypox infections have emerged across several continents, prompting wider concern among public health experts. Despite being a relatively rare infection outside of several Central and West African countries including the Democratic Republic of Congo and Nigeria, cases have been recorded Continue reading[...] Join our team as HGHI’s Executive Director! March 29, 2022 National and cross-national imbalances in the health status of different groups are largely driven by systemic inequities. Addressing the most pressing public health challenges of today requires an understanding of these long-standing structures and a commitment to equity in all aspects of work. This is especially true for the field of global health; equity, justice, Continue reading[...] Dr. Ivers Joins #GEM22, Discusses Heath Equity In April 2022, HGHI Faculty Director Dr. Louise Ivers joined the Global Empowerment Meeting (GEM) for a session focused on health systems strengthening and health equity. #GEM22 is the annual flagship event offered by the Center for International Development (CID) at Harvard University and, this year, hosted jointly with the Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. Watch the full recording of the event below! HGHI-HU CFAR Grand Rounds: Global Equity During Pandemics On January 20th, 2022, the Harvard Global Health Institute and the Harvard University Center for AIDS Research grand rounds event brought together members of the HIV research and advocacy communities to critically reflect upon applicable lessons for approaching Covid-19 healthcare delivery and identify necessary steps for a paradigm shift in how the world responds to global health crises. These conversations were oriented towards practical, timely steps that advocates, academics, and policymakers can take to advance equity in this and future global health crisis. Learn more here. 2021 Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change U.S. The Lancet Countdown: Tracking Progress on Health and Climate Change is an international research collaboration that monitors and reports annually on the relationship between health and climate, and its implications for national governments. The global report is a product of more than 100 experts from 40 global institutions. The companion U.S. Brief is supported by over 70 U.S. institutions, organizations, and centers. HGHI affiliate faculty member Dr. Renee Salas has served as the lead author of the annual Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change U.S. Brief since 2018. The 2021 U.S. Brief highlights the converging health crises of extreme heat, droughts, wildfires, exposes the inequitable health risks of climate change, and highlights opportunities to improve health through swift action. Events View All Events Tech & Health Leveraging technology in health care. Climate & Health Applying a climate lens to global health. Health Systems Because the quality of care matters. Mental Health Promoting mental health as a universal human right. Stories Harvard LEAD Fellowship for Promoting Women in Global Health | 2022 - 2023 Application OPEN! HGHI Welcomes New Faculty Director: Louise C. Ivers, MD, MPH In Memoriam: Dr. Paul Farmer Five Questions with Global Mental Health Experts: A conversation with Professor Arthur Kleinman VIEW MORE Search Link to contactsView HGHI's Contact Information Visit HGHI on Facebook Visit HGHI on Twitter Visit HGHI on Instagram Visit HGHI on Youtube © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College Harvard Trademark Privacy Digital Accessibility