Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Bringing the World to Penn and Penn to the World Explore Where Penn is in the World Meet the Penn Global Offices What Are You Looking For? Penn Global Offices International Student & Scholar Services Penn Abroad Perry World House Penn Biden Center Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Global Support Services Penn Global Finance & Administration Information To Help You... Travel Abroad Explore the resources and services available to prepare the Penn community for their travel abroad. Make an Impact Engage with Penn centers and programs to broaden the university's impact across the globe. Support Your Global Activities Discover the resources and services available to support the business and administrative functions of Penn's global activities. Fund Your Global Activities Learn about the opportunities designed to provide financial and logistical assistance to the Penn community for their global endeavors. Penn Global News See All News Global Grants Recording of the 2022 Launch Symposium Now Available by Penn Global Read More Perry World House Welcomes 2022-23 Class of Postdoctoral Fellows by Perry World House Read More Global Grants, Africa Symposium highlights range and reach of Penn Global research by Kristen de Groot | Penn Today Read More @PennGlobal Follow Us RT @perryworldhouse: As Shanghai begins to gradually reopen after a strict COVID-19 lockdown, @PennGlobal's @AmyGadsden looks at the pot... Are you interested in applying to the Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant Program? Check out the recording of the information sess... Did you miss @PennGlobal's 2022 Launch Symposium? Are you interested in learning more about the 21 projects supported by the Penn Global... RT @PennGradCenter: Join us for an informational webinar for new international graduate & professional students. Each session will f... RT @pdri_info: The May edition of the PDRI newsletter was just released. In this month's letter, learn about energy policy in Ghana, res... RT @Penn: We're live at #PennGrad ! Follow along here for the procession down Locust walk followed by the Commencement Ceremony on Frank... RT @perryworldhouse: Congratulations to the winners of our 2022 Undergraduate Essay Prize! 👏🎉 Learn more about this year's winning... RT @envs302: Day 1 of the 2022 iteration of the Iceland PGS involved a blustery climb to overlook last year's lava flow #wherewillpennta... RT @PennGradCenter: 🎉CONGRATULATIONS to the Penn graduate students & alumni who received #Fulbright U.S. Student Program grants t... RT @PennMedEVDCSO: Symposium highlights range & reach of @PennGlobal research🌎 ft. @ZekeEmanuel (@PennMEHP), Wale Adebanwi, @Davi... 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy