Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement CGE connects the world to TU and TU to the world About Us Whether you are a TU student, faculty, or staff, The Center for Global Engagement offers rich opportunities to engage with the global community. The CGE is located on the Third Floor of Holmes Student Center at Hardesty Hall. Walk-in hours are 11am-3pm, Monday thru Friday. Global Opportunities In an increasingly digitally connected world, engaging with the international community has become a key piece of the American college experience. College graduates who possess the personal, academic and professional skills that are gained through international experiences are at the forefront of their fields, especially in competitive job markets. About Education Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Exchange Students Health, Safety & Security Going abroad served as an opportunity for me to improve my language skills and grow as a person. It also served as a reminder as to how small the world really is. Megan K. O'Neal, Environmental Policy & Political Science News All News Stories Meet the 2022 Global Graduates The Global Graduates award is the premier award upon for students who represent The University of Tulsa as a global citizens. This select group of graduating undergraduate students are distinguished for excelling academically, contributing to the TU campus community, and partaking in unique experiences abroad. Catherine Donner Major: Applied Mathematics with a Business Concentration Minor: […] Statement on the situation in Ukraine The Center for Global Engagement is closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine. CGE is in regular contact with our students from both the Ukraine and Russia, providing support, resources and encouraging them to work with TU CAPS and other university services. Some of the international students most directly affected by current world events have requested privacy […] Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! Info Session: Scholarships for Study Abroad Welcome Back!!! – The CGE has moved! 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT