Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Book Talk & Panel Discussion - The Brussels Effect: How the European Union Rules the World Events Past Event Book Talk & Panel Discussion - The Brussels Effect: How the European Union Rules the World Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 14, 2020 8:25 PM - 10:00 PM Online Time: 8:25 - 10:00 PM (Beijing) | 7:25 - 9:00 AM (New York) Will "Beijing Effect" replace "Brussels Effect" in the future? Join us for a book talk and panel discussion with Professor Anu Bradford of Columbia Law School and leading experts from Shanghai International Studies University, Fudan University, East China University of Political Science and Law, Sichuan University, and Clifford Chance LLP Beijing Office as they conduct in-depth exchanges on the past and future development of the European Union, prospects and challenges for EU-China relations in the 21st century. In partnership with Columbia Law School, Center for European Union Studies at Shanghai International Studies University, and EU Law Center at East China University of Political Science and Law. About the book In her important new book, Columbia Law professor Anu Bradford argues the EU remains an influential superpower that shapes the world in its image. By promulgating regulations that shape the international business environment, elevating standards worldwide, and leading to a notable Europeanization of many important aspects of global commerce, the EU has managed to shape policy in areas such as data privacy, consumer health and safety, environmental protection, antitrust, and online hate speech. The Brussels Effect shows how the EU has acquired such power, why multinational companies use EU standards as global standards, and why the EU’s role as the world’s regulator is likely to outlive its gradual economic decline, extending the EU’s influence long into the future. Panelists A leading scholar on the EU’s regulatory power and a sought-after commentator on the European Union and Brexit, Anu Bradford coined the term the Brussels Effect to describe the European Union’s outsize influence on global markets. Most recently, she is the author of The Brussels Effect: How the European Union Rules the World (2020). Bradford is also an expert in international trade law and antitrust law. She spearheads the Comparative Competition Law Project, which has built a comprehensive global data set of antitrust laws and enforcement across time and jurisdictions. The project, a joint effort between the Law School and the University of Chicago Law School, covers more than a century of regulation in over 100 countries and has been the basis for Bradford’s recent empirical research on the antitrust regimes used to regulate markets. Hua XIN is research professor and executive deputy director of the Center for EU Studies at Shanghai International Studies University (SISU), trustee and director of research of the Shanghai Institute for European Studies (SIES), and non-resident senior researcher of the Center for National Strategic Studies at Shanghai Jiaotong University (SJU). He regularly provides advice to high-level policymakers through Chinese think tanks and is frequently called upon to offer media commentaries. He has won several academic prizes issued by the Shanghai Federation of Social Science Associations. His major research fields include: EU-China-U.S. economic relations and economic diplomacy, and comparative studies on the European and East Asian regional integrations. His most recent publications include: “The Interest Groups’ Influence Mechanisms on the Policymaking in the U.S.-EU Trade Negotiations: A Comparative Study of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the BusinessEurope”, Chinese Journal of European Studies, Vol. 36, No. 6: 56-82; “Analysis of the Strategic Rationale behind the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement”, Global Review, Vol. 10, No. 6: 95-119. Zhian LU is now the associate professor of Law at Fudan University School of Law. His academic field mainly include public international law, international human rights law, international humanitarian law, international economic law, international private law, EU law, business and human rights, China business law and so on. His publications include books and papers in International Economic Law, Public International Law, Contemporary Practical Writing, China Foreign Economic and Trade Encyclopedia and so on. The papers was respectively on Journal of Law Review, Journal of Exploration and Contending, Yale-China Journal of American Studies, Journal of Science of Law, Human Rights, Journal Of International Taxation. Yong BAI LAW '10 is an antitrust practice partner at the Beijing office of Clifford Chance LLP. He specializes in antitrust and competition issues. Bai has worked in the London and Brussels offices of Clifford Chance. Before joining Clifford Chance, Bai worked for the PRC's Ministry of Commerce. Bai is a Columbia Law School alumnus. Jizeng Barrett FAN is an associate research fellow at Sichuan University Law School. His fields of research include Comparative Constitutional Law, Human Rights Law, and EU Law. He holds a ph.D degree in Law at Scuola Superiore Sant’anna Pisa. Jiao ZHANG is a lecturer and postgraduate supervisor at the International Law School, East China University of Political Science and Law. She is also serving as a member of the Council at EU Legal Studies Association of Chinese Association for EU Studies, the Secretary-General of EU Law Association of Shanghai Law Society. Her research interests are focused on the European Union Law, Law of the International Organization, and the International Rule of Law. She awarded the title of Shanghai Young Oriental Scholar in 2016. Reminders This webinar will be conducted in English. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close