Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Richard Peña on independent cinema Rio de Janeiro Richard Peña on independent cinema Hollywood has dominated world film for 100 years. It's important to look at independent filmmakers who create their own production structures. August 23, 2019 Richard Peña has been at Columbia since 1989, being named Professor of Professional Practice in 2003; from 2006 - 2009 was a Visiting Professor in Spanish at Princeton University. Mr. Peña has also served as the Program Director of the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Director of the New York Film Festival from 1988 to 2012. It is not his first time here in Brazil. The professor has come many times before to give talks and lectures about remarkable films. Peña, who is fluent in Portuguese, was in Rio de Janeiro last week for “Nas margens do cinema americano", a lecture series of four days organized by the Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro. We caught up with Peña before one of his classes, and had a nice chat about movies and his career. Do you believe the presence of a Global Center in Rio is a positive way of connecting Columbia and Brazil? Well, I can definitely speak for myself on this one. This connection is super important because I make great connections through Global Centers, and I get to meet many great people. Yes… Many great things happened to me after I got to be more involved. You are always so fantastic to me and I always feel very welcomed here. Why is it so important to talk about independent cinema’s movements? In a perverse kind of way, American movies are almost too well known in the world. Hollywood has continued to dominate world film for over 100 years. And it´s so important to look at movements of independent filmmakers who tried to break free from the financial control and aesthetic model of commercial cinema by creating their own production structures… And these movements are less talked about just because they don’t follow a commercial rule, as we may say. I could easily talk about Alfred Hitchcock, who I admire so much for example, but it’s a pleasure for me to talk about independent artists. Is there any difference between Brazilians and Americans in terms of audience? In other terms, do we consume movies differently from the rest of the world? Yes. For example, I like to see the reaction when I talk about African-American independent movies because the racial (and racist) reality in the US is so different from Brazil. Each country has it own broad history when it comes to ‘race’, but in Brazil people see it differently from the US. That is why I like to bring these movies so we can compare to the reality here in Brazil. But why bring this topic to a workshop in Brazil now? Brazilians are movie lovers, but unfortunately, they are not very familiar with independent artists, and it’s a pleasure for me to come here and talk about them. There are so many artists out there doing the same old commercial thing, that we should pay more attention to those who are pointing to other directions. But why bring this topic to a workshop in Brazil now? Brazilians are movie lovers, but unfortunately, they are not very familiar with independent artists, and it’s a pleasure for me to come here and talk about them. There are so many artists out there doing the same old commercial thing, that we should pay more attention to those who are pointing to other directions. Considering our current political times in Brazil, a time in which we might lose ANCINE (The National Film Agency), would you agree that it’s extremely important to bring this subject to a lecture? I hope it doesn’t come to an end, of course. I believe ANCINE and any other organizations that support the movie industry must be kept alive! Brazil has a long and beautiful story regarding arts and movies, and it must continue to grow. Tags Rio Stories Rio Stories Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Rio Stories Faculty CGC Stories: Faculty Film School Film Columbia University School of the Arts News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close