Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home Advisories and Alerts Advisories and Alerts Columbia University's International Travel Planning Policy provides that all persons participating in Columbia Travel must closely review advisories, alerts, and other guidance issued by the University, the U.S. Department of State, International SOS, health authorities and other governmental and non-governmental entities. The below Advisories & Alerts are a small sampling of the most recent updates only. You should visit the below websites to make sure you have the most up to date information before departing on your Columbia Travel. globe icon Countries Subject to CU Travel Restrictions flag icon U.S. Department of State Travel Advisories address-card icon International SOS (ISOS) stethoscope icon Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19: Omicron Variant International SOS "The Omicron variant of COVID-19 has been designated a variant of concern by the WHO. The picture and understanding of Omicron is rapidly evolving and information is likely to change. As countries around the world are putting travel and other restrictions in place, it's important people are aware that restrictions can be implemented with little or no advance warning - and that anyone planning to travel should be prepared for the risk that onward travel may be delayed or not possible. Ensure that you reconfirm your itinerary, stay flexible, have appropriate contingency plans in place and check the latest restrictions for your destination." For more information, please see the Omicron FAQ flyer. Columbia University, Mailman School of Public Health What Is Omicron and How Concerned Should We Be? "Nearly two years after the emergence of the virus that causes COVID-19, a variant of the virus called Omicron is raising concerns around the world. Transmission checked in with some of Columbia Mailman School’s top experts in virology, emerging infectious diseases, epidemiology, and the global response to pandemics to answer questions about the variant, including its potential risks and what we can do to protect ourselves." Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close