Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel Home Image Carousel with 8 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: lion in a field Slide 2: Hidalgo Slide 3: Cliffs of Moher Ireland Slide 4: Camels - Dead Sea Slide 5: Germany Slide 6: Hong Kong Skyline at night Slide 7: Calafate Argentina Slide 8: Honfleur France Previous Next I Want To lightbulb icon Learn About Columbia Travel clipboard icon Plan CU-Related International Travel flag icon International Travel Restrictions book icon Register a Trip An essential part of Columbia University’s Mission is “to support research and teaching on global issues, and to create academic relationships with many countries and regions. It expects all areas of the University to advance knowledge and learning at the highest level and to convey the products of its efforts to the world.” Supporting this mission often requires students, faculty, and staff to travel outside of the United States. Whether it be for research, conference presentation, study abroad, or other purposes, those on Columbia Travel have a support system at the University to provide the tools needed for diligent pre-trip planning, and assistance in the event of an emergency abroad. Students, Officers of Administration, Support Staff, Faculty and other Columbia employees participating in Columbia Travel must follow the pre-departure requirements described in the International Travel Planning Policy and current International Travel Restrictions. These requirements can include, but are not limited to, trip registry and a pre-trip itinerary review. To determine your next steps, click on the appropriate link below or navigate the site using the menu above. Emergency Abroad? exclamation-triangle icon Call ISOS +001-215-942-8478 Columbia Membership ID: 11BSGC000064 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close