Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Columbia Entrepreneurship Panel in Shenzhen Events Past Event Columbia Entrepreneurship Panel in Shenzhen Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Columbia Entrepreneurship Panel in Shenzhen November 12, 2017 2:00 PM - 4:30 PM Shenzhen On November 12th, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Columbia Alumni Association of Shenzhen will host a Columbia Entrepreneurship Panel in Shenzhen, celebrating the initial establishment of the Board of CAA Shenzhen. Six Columbia alumni, including Xuchu Lin from Guangzhou Industrial Investment Fund Management Co., Ltd., Yan Jin, from Pure Faith Asset Management (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., Roger Wu from Maison Capital, Joe Wang from CMS Media & Entertainment Investment Management Co., Ltd., Ruifen Xu, from RIC Capital Management and Board Member of CAA Shanghai, and Tristan Xin from Danen Ventures are invited to join the panel discussing the opportunities for financial innovation. Mr. Lin will firstly present a keynote speech. During the discussion, six panelists will share their insights on innovation in investment and financing system, financial innovation and investment trends in the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, and the development of Shenzhen-Hong Kong technology industry. Chuang Pei from Southern Capital Management and CAA Shenzhen will serve as the moderator. We cordially welcome your attendance at this event! The Columbia Entrepreneurship Panel Series is launched by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. Cooperating with Columbia Alumni Associations in multiple cities, the Beijing Center has successfully held three events in Beijing and Shanghai, with 17 entrepreneurs, investment officers, and investment bankers contributing their knowledge and insights on entrepreneurship and investment. Speakers Xuchu Lin, General Manager of Guangzhou Industrial Investment Fund Management Co., Ltd. Mr. Lin won "2016 China Private Equity Outstanding Innovative Figure," "2016 Most Innovative Figures in Finance for Excellence," "2016 Outstanding Young Investor in China Equity Investment Industry," "2016 South China Finance Annual Leadership Award," "2016 China Venture-Financial Times China Top Investors," "2017 China TOP20 Investors for Entrepreneurial Spirit," and other honorable titles. Yan Jin, General Manager of Pure Faith Asset Management (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Dr. Yan Jin has 19 years of experience in trading global macro strategies with a strong track record. He graduated from Beijing University in 1985 with a Bachelor degree in pure mathematics. In 1995, he received his Doctoral degree in mathematics from the University of Connecticut. He then obtained his second Ph.D. from Columbia Business School with distinction in 1998. Roger Wu, Partner of Maison Capital Roger Wu has over 15 years of experience in investment banking and direct investment, prior to joining Maison Capital, his past experience includes: Managing Director at CITIC Securities, in charge of investment and operation, member of Investment Committee; Senior VP at Lehman Brothers Asia, responsible for operating direct investment fund; and Investment manager at Henderson Asia Fund, in charge of investment and fund management. He holds a Bachelor degree in Economics from Columbia University. Joe Wang, General Manager of CMS Media & Entertainment Investment Management Co., Ltd. and Co-President of CAA Shenzhen Joe Wang holds a master degree from Columbia University and a bachelor degree from Central University of Finance and Economics, China. He currently serves as the General Manager of the CMS Media& Entertainment Investment Management Co., Ltd. Ruifen Xu, Founding Partner of RIC Capital Management and Board Member of CAA Shanghai Ruifen Xu is the Founding Partner of RIC Capital Management which focus on private equity investment in Mobile Solutions, Sports/Entertainment/Education, Fintech/Big Data and Merge Acquisition as well as high yield return investment strategy. So far RIC Capital Management has invested 45 projects. Tristan Xin, Executive Director of Danen Ventures Tristan Xin is the Executive Director of Danen Ventures. He has leveraged his broad skill set in over a dozen of investment in medical health, consumer upgrade in emerging overseas markets, as well as various mergers and acquisitions, and IPO exits, including Nanjing Vazyme Biotech Co., Ltd., Dongnanhengsheng Medical Technologies Co., Ltd, Getein Biotech, Inc., WOOK (Indonesia), and Bona Education. Moderator Chuang Pei, Secretary to Chairman of the Southern Capital Management and Secretary General of CAA Shenzhen Chuang Pei is the secretary to chairman of the Southern Capital Management, a wholly owned subsidiary Southern Fund Management (Southern Fund management and Southern Capital Management's managing capital assets is approximately 875.21 Billion RMB, Including management scale of 391.48 Billion RMB public fund, 253.73 Billion RMB of social security fund, Private account, corporate pension fund; Southern Capital management's managing capital asset is approximately 230 billion RMB, including Private equity, M&A fund, National Equities Exchange and Quotations fund, ABS, Quantitative investment fund and etc). Time Sunday, Nov. 12, 2017 2: 00 p.m. - 4: 30 p.m. Agenda 1:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Registration 2:00 p.m. - 2:05 p.m. Opening Remarks by Cindy Liu, Co-President of CAA Shenzhen 2:05 p.m. - 2:10 p.m. Remarks by Xin Peng, CFO and Executive Director of Columbia Global Centers 2:10 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Keynote Speech by Mr. Xuchu Lin 2:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Panel Discussion 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Q&A 4:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Informal Discussion and Mingle 4:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Site Visit: China Resources Land Building Location and Transportation China Resources Land Building C, Floor 8 Tonggu Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen China Resources Land Building C, Floor 8 Generously Sponsored By China Resources Land Building Accelerator Registration Please Click Here to register The ticket priority will be given to Columbia students and alumni. Please have your UNI ready before registration. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close