Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Innovations for the Pandemic Events Past Event Innovations for the Pandemic Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 4, 2021 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM Online Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Western Region invite you to a panel discussion featuring innovators and their innovative solutions for addressing Covid-19. The panel will introduce inspiring stories of startups that made new products or tweaked existing business models to create solutions tailored to tackle the pandemic. An information session for startup founders and innovators interested in applying for Columbia University’s Urban Works Innovation Challenge 2020-2021 will follow. Opening Remarks: ● Swati Salgaocar, Director, Vimson Group and Columbia GSAPP, '07 Address: ● Sunil Mathur, Chairman CII Western Region; MD & CEO, Siemens Limited Moderator: ● Ravina Aggarwal, Director, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai Panelists: ● Jayakrishnan T, Founder and CEO, Asimov Robotics ● Shashi Ranjan, Co-founder and Director, PerSapien Innovations ● Nikhil Kurele, Co-founder and CEO, Noccarc Robotics ● Darshika Joshi, Co-founder, Glimpse Analytics About the Speakers Swati Salgaocar is a Director at the Vimson Group, founded over 70 years ago in Goa with business interests in mineral development, real estate, and financial services. The Group has recently diversified internationally through strategic investments in the Minerals Sector and launched Prospect Mining Studio to support sustainable mining startups. The philanthropic interests of the Group include the Salgaocar Football Club founded in 1956 and the V.M. Salgaocar Hospital. Swati holds a B.A. (Arch.) (Hons.) from Yale University, USA and an M.Arch. from Columbia University, USA. She is the Vice-Chairperson of the Goa State Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry, Co-Chair of the CII Startups and Innovation Committee (Western Region), a member of the CII National Committee on Mining and the CII National Startups Council. She has been appointed on a Special Task Force constituted by the Dept. of Industries, Govt. of Goa to review the Goa Investment Promotion Act as well as a Joint Consultative Group for framing of the Goa State Entrepreneurship Policy. She is a member of the Society and Campus Development Committee of the Goa Institute of Management. She has been the Co-Director of the Yale India Alumni Schools Committee for over 5 years. Passionate about art and design, she co-curated “Panjim 175”, a special project as part of the Serendipity Arts Festival 2018. Sunil Mathur is Chairman, CII Western Region 2020-21 and the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens Ltd. since 2014. In this role he is responsible for Siemens in South Asia represented mainly by Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan, and Siemens Group Companies in India. He is currently a Member of the Global Leadership Team of Siemens. Prior to 2014, he was the Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of Siemens Ltd. from 2008 responsible for the same countries. During his stint as CFO of Siemens India, he was a Member of the Global Finance Management Team. He has been with Siemens for over 30 years, holding several Senior Management positions in Germany, where he worked in the Power Generation Division as well as CFO of a Global Business Unit in the Industrial Automation Division of the Company. He has wide experience of integrating companies, creating Joint Ventures, M&A and turning around non performing businesses in an International environment. He has worked in Germany, United Kingdom and the United States. Mr. Mathur is on the National Council of the CII and was Deputy Chairman of CII Western Region (2019-20). He is Past President of Indo-German Chamber of Commerce and Bombay Chamber of Commerce. Jayakrishnan is the founder and C.E.O of ASIMOV Robotics Pvt Ltd, a company that provides solutions in advanced Robotics and AI. ASIMOV Robotics has been featured in Forbes magazine in 2018 and 2020 as one of the most promising AI and Robotics companies in India. Jayakrishnan has about 26 years of industry experience in robotics & AI, embedded system design, power control, microprocessor design, SDK design, video compression, and inertial navigation. He has prior experience in providing solutions to US, European, Canadian and Japanese agencies for Defense, Space and Nuclear applications. He had successfully deployed 200+ robots across the world in geographies like US, Europe, Canada, Central America, and China. Shashi Rajan is Co-Founder and Director of PerSapien Innovations. Currently, his startup is developing different air purification/sanitization products under the brand name Airlens, with 6 patents in his name. During the pandemic, he invented a 'water-based disinfection technology' certified by ICMR for its efficacy against microbes including Sars-Cov-2, which has been extensively covered by various media outlets. His invention has been featured in Forbes Magazine, and Vigyan Prashar Science Channel, GOI among others, and has been selected for the Limca Book of Records. He was also part of the 'Stanford India Biodesign Program' at Stanford University, where he developed an innovative medical device to solve the problem of pace-maker lead dislodgement. With a passion to serve his homeland, he returned to India and joined AIIMS, New Delhi, identifying air pollution as one of the biggest health problems. To solve this, he developed several novel air purification technologies at his lab at IIT Delhi with support from corporates like Pfizer, GAIL, and under the mentorship of Prof. Randeep Guleria, Director of AIIMS. Dr. Ranjan has an engineering degree in Biotechnology from BIT Mesra, and a Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering from National University of Singapore. He has authored various research publications in reputed peer-reviewed journals such as Nature Communications. He has won 15+ national and international innovation awards. Nikhil Kurele is the Co-Founder, Director and CEO of Noccarc Robotics, a leading startup in the cleantech and healthcare industry. He has been featured in Forbes 30 under 30 Asia, 2020. Prior to his career in the business world, he has won Innovation and Manufacturing Practices (IMP), INAE Award’14. He was associated with SAE IIT Kanpur for 3 years, where he was involved in the design and development of full-scale race cars. Nikhil also served as the Team Captain for Baja SAE Team. He served as an advisor to the Science and Technology Council, IIT Kanpur and also worked in the Institute team for an International robotics competition called Robocon. Nikhil has a B.Tech degree specializing in Mechanical Engineerin from IIT Kanpur. He has a keen interest in Ground Robotics and Machine Design. After graduating in 2016, he worked as a Design Engineer at Bajaj Auto in the Robotics and Automation Division, and interned at Tata Sons group technology office, where he designed and developed a UAV for pesticide dispersion and crop condition monitoring (patent pending). Darshika Joshi is Co-founder at Glimpse Analytics. She is also a serial entrepreneur, python, and computer vision expert. She works with cutting edge tech since 7 years, has built large scalable products and has sold her first startup. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close