Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Education Panel Series XI: The Rise of Alternative Education in China – The Road Ahead Events Past Event Beijing Education Panel Series XI: The Rise of Alternative Education in China – The Road Ahead Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 6, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Rising wages, soaring prosperities are making Chinese parents increasingly opting for non-traditional ways of educating their children. On November 6, please join Columbia Global Centers | Beijing at the eleventh discussion of the Center's Education Panel Series entitled "The Rise of Alternative Education in China – The Road Ahead", exploring alternative methods and the challenges ahead to fully realize children's potential. In the context of its long standing traditional education system, is Chinese society at large ready to adopt and endorse rising movement of alternative approaches in education? Does China have enough qualified and trained teachers? Do Chinese parents have good parenting models and examples? Can Chinese leadership deliver on its promise of curriculum and assessment reforms? Clearly there are persistent challenges ahead in the way of successful implementation of alternative education methods in China. Panelists Angela Curry, Director of AP Program at RDFZ Curry has been working in international education for the past 17 years. Her career began in Guinea, West Africa while serving as a United States Peace Corps volunteer. She subsequently spent four years living and working on the Navajo Nation Indian reservation as a graduate fellow at Western New Mexico University in the United States. With a focus on leadership and policy, Angela spent six years in the United Arab Emirates as part of a local education reform effort, primarily training and empowering women educators in the region. She is currently the head of the AP Program at the RDFZ International Curriculum Center in Beijing, China and an AP Capstone teacher, focused on ways students can connect and synthesize information in order to develop meaningful solutions to real world problems. Richard H. Gehman, Founding Head of School at UCCG Gehman has a vast experience in the education sector having worked as an administrator for over 35 years in the USA and Iran. He is an alumnus of Princeton University with specialization in Asian studies and Sociology. He has a masters degree from University of Massachusetts in Educational Policy, Research and Administration with a concentration in International Education. He served as a school principal in the USA for over 30 years, first in The Savannah Country Day School, Georgia and later on in Oak Hall School, Florida. He has been in China since 2017 and acting as the founding head of UCCG school in Beijing. Xinyue GUO TC '17 Founder of Heart Space; President of Xi'an Federation of Innovation and maker education Guo has been working teenagers in the past six years. She holds a Master Degree in Politics and Education from Columbia University and bachelor of labor economics from Renmin University of China. Now She is the chairman of Xi'an Innovation Maker Education Federation and works as a member of the Higher Education Branch of the Shaanxi Education Examination and Evaluation Research Association. She was rated "The entrepreneurial hero of Xi'an" in 2018 and the "Asian Young Change maker" of the Ashoka Foundation, one of the top social public entrepreneurs organization in the world. She had participated in numerous large-scale educational investment research projects and educational charity projects. In 2013, she found HeartSpace that is devoted to push the educational equality through the education innovation and implementing the course standard of high quality. Agenda 6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Registration 7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Panel Discussion and Q&A 8:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Informal Discussion Notice The event will be in English. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close