Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home What do you gain and learn from studying abroad? -- Beijing Education Panel Series X Events Past Event What do you gain and learn from studying abroad? -- Beijing Education Panel Series X Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 28, 2019 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On July 28, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the tenth panel discussion of the Center's Education Panel Series and a book sharing of the Hundreds of Aspects of Ivy Students with Sirui SHAO JRN '16 and Johnson LIU. Nowadays, studying abroad has been a social trend in China. With the growing number of students study abroad, this panel discussion aims to discuss the gain and growth of having an overseas education experience, and to discuss what it means to be a global citizen and how. Panelists Sirui SHAO Sirui graduated from University of Alabama with a bachelor's degree in Finance. She interned at several local television stations and news agencies in Alabama and launched A Channel to promote Chinese culture. She assisted to produce iFeng's documentary on the black community in the U.S. Sirui earned her master degree at Columbia Journalism School. She is now a financial reporter for foreign media in Hong Kong, covering merger arbitrage of Hong Kong-listed companies. During the last two years, she interviewed more than 200 CEOs each year and launched her new book Hundreds of Aspects of Ivy Students in 2019. This book contains Sirui's 28 interviews with the Ivy League member schools' alumni and her experience of eight-year US life. She hopes this book could bring courage and inspiration to people who want to change and encourage them to take the first step. Zhaoning Johnson LIU Johnson got his bachelor's degree at the College of William and Mary in Government and is pursuing his master degree at Tsinghua University. In the past, Johnson worked at the Russian International Affairs Council on energy security in Eurasia, Sino-Russian relations and Eurasian Economic Union. Johnson has also held internships with various media outlets such as CGTN America and CollegeDaily. Since last year, he has worked as the Associate at Venture Gurukool, an Indian Venture Capital attracting Chinese investment into India. This experience inspired him to become an entrepreneur and start a company that helps Chinese company to go overseas. His firm offers consulting services on political risks, legal affairs, business cultures, etc. Johnson's academic interest in international relations has enriched his knowledge of conflict resolution and nation-building processes. Other than his professional and academic experience, Johnson remains an independent observer of current events that happen not only in China but around the world. Agenda 2:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Registration 3:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Book Sharing by Sirui SHAO 3:30 p.m. - 4:15 p.m. Panel Discussion 4:15 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Q&A Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close