Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home 11 Years After the Arab Spring: Political Crisis in Tunisia Events Past Event 11 Years After the Arab Spring: Political Crisis in Tunisia Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: poster Slide 2: poster Previous Next February 18, 2022 12:30 PM - 1:30 PM Online(Tunis) Registration Link: http://bitly.ws/ofiM Organized in partnership with the African Development Group at Columbia University. In the last decade, Tunisia was presented as a model country in the Arab Middle East and North Africa (MENA), a democratic “beacon of hope” for a region that seemed exceptional in its authoritarian resilience. For many foreign observers, the democratic transition was successful; other issues looked secondary. The Arab Spring died everywhere but in Tunisia, commentators assured. Then, on July 25th, 2021, President Kais Saied deployed the army in the Parliament and decided to grab all powers in his hands. Thousands of Tunisians celebrated the event and only a few hundreds opposed it in the streets. There was a sense of relief among important segments of the population (Sigma, Emrhod polls). The international condemnations of the “coup” were not matched by scenes of bloodshed and mass arrests, a stark difference from classical putsches. More than six months after the event, the president remains extremely popular, whereas the opposition is weaker than ever (Sigma polls). But the fact is, the country is slowly reverting to authoritarianism. The problems that Tunisians complained about (polls bythe Arab Barometer, IRI) continue to deepen. Tunisia’s international isolation is growing. And whereas few people dare to praise the pre-July 25th era publicly, there is a growing concern that things have not improved. What explains this discrepancy between the local and the international? Why did Tunisians seemingly accept to put their democracy on hold? What are the prospects of change in the country now that it left the Democracy track? What is the future of democracy in Tunisia and the Arab MENA region? And what about the future relationships with the European Union, the region's main partner? These questions and more will be discussed by our guest speakers, Dr. Richard Youngs and Khansa Ben Tarjem. Dr. Richard Youngs is a senior fellow in the Democracy, Conflict, and Governance Program, based at Carnegie Europe. He works on EU foreign policy and on issues of international democracy. Youngs is also a professor of international relations at the University of Warwick. Prior to joining Carnegie in July 2013, he was the director of the European think tank FRIDE. He has held positions in the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office and as an EU Marie Curie fellow. He was a senior fellow at the Transatlantic Academy in Washington, DC, from 2012 to 2013. Youngs has authored fifteen books. His most recent works are Rebuilding European Democracy: Resistance and Renewal in an Illiberal Age (Bloomsbury/Tauris, 2021), The European Union and Global Politics (Macmillan, 2021), Civic Activism Unleashed: New Hope or False Dawn for Democracy? (Oxford University Press, 2019) and Europe’s Eastern Crisis: The Geopolitics of Asymmetry (Cambridge University Press, 2017). Khansa Ben Tarjem is a doctoral student in political science at the University of Lausanne and a visiting fellow at the Center for Middle Eastern Studies (Harvard University) and at the Crown Center for Middle Eastern Studies (Brandeis University). Her thesis project concerns the “Security services formation in post-colonial Tunisia (1954 – 1963)”. In December 2015, she co-founded a Tunisian media and think-tank called Barr al Aman for research and media, where she is now its incumbent president. She has also worked as a freelance journalist for Le Monde and Reuters TV. Moderator: Youssef Cherif is the Director of Columbia Global Centers | Tunis. He is a political analyst who specializes in North African affairs. He is a regular contributor to a number of think-tanks, such as Carnegie, ISPI, IEMed, etc. Youssef holds a Chevening Master of Arts in International Relations from King's College London, and a Fulbright Master of Arts in Classical Studies from Columbia University, where he first came as a Visiting Scholar. He is the editor of the book The Modern Arab State: A Decade of Uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa (KAS, 2021). Link to the Facebook Event. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close