Travel Advisory: Level 2 - Exercise Increased Caution...Read More English Español English Español U.S. Embassy in Chile Social / Search TwitterFacebookInstagram | Search [Skip to Content] Visas Nonimmigrant Visas For travel to the United States on a temporary basis, including tourism, temporary employment, study and exchange. Read More Immigrant Visas For foreign citizens who want to live permanently in the United States. Read More Visa Waiver Program The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) allows citizens of participating countries* to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of 90 days or less, when they meet all requirements. Are You Eligible? Travel & Tourism in the U.S. Visit the U.S.! U.S. Citizen Services Alerts and Messages Alerts and Messages for U.S. visitors to Chile. See all Alerts and Messages Emergency Assistance U.S. Citizens with emergencies, please call (+56) 2 2330 3716 Outside of Office Hours, contact: (+56) 2 2330 3000 International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance Passports & Citizenship Passport Services Citizenship Services Child and Family Matters Local Resources Legal Assistance Medical Assistance Notarial Services Additional Resources for U.S. Citzens Federal Programs Social Security Internal Revenue Service Selective Service Registration Veterans Affairs Voting Our Relationship U.S. Mission Leaders Chargé d’Affaires – Richard H. Glenn U.S. Government Leaders President of the United States Vice President of the United States U.S. Secretary of State U.S. & Chile Policy & History Official Reports U.S. and Chile Drawing on our close bilateral relations and shared values, we support Chile’s leadership in spreading the benefits of democracy and free markets throughout the region. Learn More Business Doing Business in Chile Getting Started Commercial Opportunities Overseas Security Advisory Council Economic Data & Reports Doing Business in the U.S. Getting Started in the U.S. Economic Data & Reports Education & Culture Study in the U.S.A. Learn more about quality higher-education opportunities in the U.S. that you will not find anywhere else in the world. Find Opportunities American Spaces Find the closest American Space in Chile where you can connect with the U.S. Learn More Local Programs English Programs Youth Ambassadors Program for Chile Grants Corner U.S.-Chile Science, Technology and Innovation Council (STIC) Youth Ambassadors Learn more about this exchange program! Read More Embassy U.S. Embassy U.S. Embassy Santiago Av. Andrés Bello 2800 Las Condes Santiago, Chile Phone: (56-2) 2330-3000 Work With Us! Jobs at the Embassy News & Events News The Administration’s Approach to the People’s Republic of China Statement by President Biden on the Applications to NATO by Finland and Sweden Designation of Attorney General Maria Consuelo Porras Argueta de Porres Biden Administration Measures to Support the Cuban People Alert Travel to the United States on Expired U.S. Passports (December 28, 2021) Demonstration Alert: Santiago and other cities in Chile Demonstration Alert: Road Blockages in Iquique and Arica (02/11/2022) Passport Fee Increase on December 27, 2021 Press Releases Under Secretary Fernandez’s Travel to Chile  Department of Justice and the FBI Shared Best Practices with FNE officials Science in the Southern Hemisphere: SOFIA Deploys to Chile US Navy sponsors winning round of naval Hacking for Defense 2021 challenge in Chile Summit of the Americas The United States will host the Ninth Summit of the Americas the week of June 6-10 in Los Angeles, California with a focus on “Building a Sustainable, Resilient, and Equitable Future” for our hemisphere. #UnitedForUkraine #FundingOpportunities The U.S. Embassy Public Affairs Section invites proposals for programs that enhance cooperation between the United States and Chile. Updates on U.S. Travel Policy Requiring Vaccination Ensure that you are ready to travel internationally and return by reviewing the information at COVID-19 Traveler Information (state.gov) and at cdc.gov. Information on the Routine Visa Services and Travel/Entry Restrictions Summit of the Americas #UnitedForUkraine #FundingOpportunities Updates on U.S. Travel Policy Requiring Vaccination Information on the Routine Visa Services and Travel/Entry Restrictions Emergency Assistance Emergency Information and Contacts. Learn More Smart Traveler Enrollment Program Enroll for alerts at step.state.gov. Learn More COVID-19 Health and travel alert for U.S. citizens. Learn More COVID-19 in Chile: Information for American Citizens 23 May, 2022 | Health Issues The Department of State advises U.S. citizens to avoid all international travel due to the global impact of COVID-19. Updates on U.S. Travel Policy Requiring Vaccination 27 October, 2021 | News, Press Releases New vaccination policy that will go into effect for international travelers on November 8. The Administration’s Approach to the People’s Republic of China 26 May, 2022 | News Speech by Secretary Blinken. Statement by President Biden on the Applications to NATO by Finland and Sweden 18 May, 2022 | News “Finland and Sweden are longtime, stalwart partners of the United States.” Designation of Attorney General Maria Consuelo Porras Argueta de Porres 16 May, 2022 | News Press statement by Secretary Blinken. Biden Administration Measures to Support the Cuban People 16 May, 2022 | Fact Sheets, News The United States is taking a series of measures to increase support for the Cuban people in line with our national security interests. Travel to the United States on Expired U.S. Passports (December 28, 2021) 11 May, 2022 | Alert, News If you are overseas and your U.S. passport expired on or after January 1, 2020, you may be able to use your expired passport to… Under Secretary Zeya’s Travel to Chile 6 May, 2022 | News Under Secretary Zeya traveled to Chile, May 3-5, to reaffirm the close ties and productive collaboration between Chile and the United States. U.S. Announces Additional Humanitarian Assistance for Venezuelan Refugees and Migrants in Chile 4 May, 2022 | News Undersecretary Zeya, while on an official visit to Santiago, announced additional humanitarian assistance for Venezuelan refugees and migrants in Chile. Secretary Blinken’s Call with Chilean Foreign Minister Urrejola 3 May, 2022 | News Secretary of State Blinken spoke yesterday with Chilean Foreign Minister Antonia Urrejola to congratulate her on her new role as Foreign Minister. Under Secretary Zeya Travel to Chile 3 May, 2022 | News Under Secretary of State for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights Uzra Zeya traveled to Santiago, Chile. Secretary Blinken’s Call with Venezuelan Interim President Guaidó 2 May, 2022 | News Secretary Blinken reiterated U.S. support for the 2015 democratically elected National Assembly and for Guaidó as the Interim President of Venezuela. People’s Republic of China Efforts to Amplify the Kremlin’s Voice on Ukraine 2 May, 2022 | News PRC and CCP media and officials’ further uncritical amplification of Moscow’s messaging demonstrates Beijing’s support for Russia. Implementation of the Presidential Memorandum on Advancing the Human Rights of LGBTQI+ 28 April, 2022 | News Press statement by Secretary Blinken. Earth Day 2022 22 April, 2022 | News Press statement by Secretary Blinken. Under Secretary Fernandez’s Travel to Chile  22 April, 2022 | Press Releases Secretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment Jose W. Fernandez traveled to Santiago, Chile on April 21-23. President Biden Providing an Update on Russia and Ukraine 21 April, 2022 | News Remarks By President Biden providing an update on Russia and Ukraine. Migration Talks with the Government of Cuba 21 April, 2022 | News U.S. and Cuban officials met in Washington, D.C. to discuss the implementation of the U.S.-Cuba Migration Accords. Suspension of Russia’s Permanent Observer Status at the Organization of American States 21 April, 2022 | News Press statement by Secretary Blinken. FACT SHEET: Update on the U.S. Strategy for Addressing the Migration in Central America 19 April, 2022 | Fact Sheets Vice President Harris has led the Root Causes Strategy, which aligns U.S. Government efforts to address the irregular migration from Central America. Show More ∨Show More ∨Show All U.S. Embassy in Chile Visas U.S. Citizen Services Our Relationship Business Education & Culture Embassy News & Events Privacy Sitemap U.S. Embassy U.S. Embassy Santiago Av. Andrés Bello 2800 Las Condes Santiago, Chile Phone: (56-2) 2330-3000 TwitterFacebookYouTubeFlickrInstagram Footer Disclaimer This is the official website of the U.S. Embassy in Chile. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.