Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home Plan Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Travelers are required to fulfill pre-departure travel requirements aligned with the highest-risk location* included in their itinerary and ensure compliance with the International Travel Planning Policy and the Spring 2022 International Travel Restrictions. You must review the ISOS Global Risk Ratings, Evacuation Status, and CDC COVID-19 Travel Health Notice to determine the highest level of risk and/or Elevated Evacuation Status for your location; these ratings can be found on: ISOS Travel Risk Ratings, ISOS Evacuation Status, and CDC COVID-19 Travel Health Notice. Please note this list is updated weekly or as necessary (latest update June 1, 2022). Additionally, the University may issue guidance, requirements, and restrictions regarding travel to specific designations, including countries subject to Comprehensive U.S. Sanctions. *"Location" can refer to country, city, and/or region. For example, if you are traveling to a region designated as 'Low Risk', but the entire country is designated as 'High Risk', you will complete the pre-departure requirements for 'High Risk' locations. Expand all Collapse all Countries in International SOS (ISOS) Evacuation Status of “Stand-by” or Higher Stand-by Stand-by Alerts are issued when ISOS identifies a high level of risk to people, and are issued only in response to events that present a clear danger to the safety of travelers and expatriates. With a Stand-by alert, ISOS authorizes the evacuation for scholastic clients. Chad Pakistan Papua New Guinea Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel (the second highest alert of ISOS) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel are issued when ISOS determines that business is severely disrupted and there is a critical risk to the safety of staff, travelers, and expatriates. Central African Republic Ethiopia Iraq Lebanon Libya Myanmar South Sudan Sudan Turkmenistan Venezuela Evacuate: Full Evacuation (the highest alert of ISOS) Evacuate: Full Evacuation (the highest alert of ISOS) are issued when ISOS determines that, “the safety or security situation in country or a particular location makes it unsafe to remain, or where the subsequent means for evacuation are going to be virtually non-existent. These decisions are made in consultation with medical and security professionals, consular and government sources, staff and clients.” Afghanistan Haiti Somalia Syria Ukraine Yemen Countries Subject to Comprehensive U.S. Sanctions From time to time, the University may issue guidance, requirements, and restrictions regarding travel to specific designations, including countries subject to Comprehensive U.S. Sanctions. The Crimea, Donetsk (DNR) and Luhansk (LNR) Regions of Ukraine Cuba Iran North Korea Russia* Syria Venezuela For additional information, please visit: https://research.columbia.edu/economic-sanctions-and-restricted-parties For research related travel, please contact the Office of Research Compliance & Training at [email protected]. For non-research related travel, please contact Global Travel at [email protected]. Requesting Travel to an ISOS High and/or Extreme Risk Location(s) or Locations with an Elevated ISOS Evacuation Status In an effort to better standardize the High and Extreme Risk approval process, our office has implemented the High and Extreme Travel Risk Approval Request Form. Completion of this form is required for the Students, Officers of Administration and Support Staff that propose travel to “High” or “Extreme” Travel Risk locations and countries with an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status; and for Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellow/Scholars proposing travel to countries with an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status. Please note, you should not complete this form until you receive a response to your ISOS Pre-Trip Itinerary Review submission. Do not complete this form for CDC Travel Health Notice Level 3, 4, or Unknown unless your destination is also an ISOS High or Extreme Travel Risk, or has an Elevated Evacuation status. Individual Travel Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form Group or Program Travel (for three or more travelers) Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form - Group or Program (Only one form is required for a group or program traveling to a High or Extreme Risk location.) High and Extreme Travel Risk - Group or Program Participant Form (In addition to the High and Extreme Travel Risk Approval form, travelers on a group or program traveling to a High or Extreme Travel Risk location must complete the participant form.) Upon completion of this form, return to Global Travel at [email protected] for processing. Global Travel will effectuate review by the Dean and Provost for Morningside Affiliates, or the Dean and EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine for CUMC Affiliates. Please complete at least four weeks prior to trip departure to allow for processing time. [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close