Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Homepage Toggle Global Cornell Menu About Global Operations Resources Travel Global Hubs Global at Cornell Global Operations Main Menu Toggle Search Form Register Travel Contact Home Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Hiring and Staffing Abroad Money and Banking Western Union Retail Payments Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics Icertis Contract Administrators International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics Icertis Contract Administrators International Delegations and Protocol Breadcrumb Home Global Operations Collaborations and Agreements International Delegations and Protocol International Delegations and Protocol Cornell is an international university with a longstanding commitment to global engagement, appreciation of intercultural differences, and spirit of collaboration for mutual benefit. Vice Provost for International Affairs Wendy Wolford and University of Pretoria Vice Chancellor Tawana Kupe formalize an institutional agreement between the two universities during a virtual MOA signing ceremony on June 7, 2021. Global Engagement Our diverse community of students, researchers, and faculty represents 120 countries. International students comprise nearly one-quarter of Cornell’s undergraduate, graduate, and professional student population. With our expansive global reach, Cornell actively promotes academic collaboration around the globe in pursuit of enhanced research and teaching, intercultural competency, and service to the public good. The Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs (OVPIA) provides guidance and resources for faculty and college leadership across the university's campuses. The office also maintains a database of international collaborative agreements (Cornell login required) across all units. Learn about how to establish a university-wide institutional partnership. If you're planning a research collaboration or other academic partnership, find out about college- and unit-level agreements. A presidential delegation from Shanghai Jiao Tong University visits Cornell's president and key leaders on the Ithaca campus. International Delegations OVPIA will consider requests for hosting international delegations from strategic partner institutions if they involve multiple units on campus and topics that extend beyond one academic unit or department. Email OVPIA. Requests must have the endorsement of senior leadership and relevant Cornell faculty and staff. We also advise on world cultures and business protocol, with support from regional experts in the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies. International delegation requests with a specific scholarly interest must have the backing of related Cornell faculty. These visits may be arranged by the relevant department, college, or school. Campus Visit Resources Glorious to View Video Visiting Cornell Visit Alternatives Cornell University Colleges and Schools Things to Do at Cornell Maps and Directions Visitor Parking Visit Ithaca Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance