Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Global Main navigation Home About Welcome Organizational Chart Global Engagement Global Positioning Strategy Guiding Principles for International Initiatives Guide for Responsible International Activities Managing Foreign Influence Locations Global Presence Resources Faculty Students Corporate Partnerships Alumni and Giving Georgia Tech Fact Book External Review New Initiatives User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Welcome Breadcrumb Home Welcome to the Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Our core mission is to create and facilitate life-changing international experiences for our students and all members of the Georgia Tech community while striving for inclusive excellence. A leading public research university, Georgia Tech is very intentional about its global approach to higher education. We have placed our commitment to strengthening our role as a convener of worldwide collaboration among the key priorities in our 2020-2030 strategic plan. International experiences through partnerships change our worldview and help us learn more about ourselves and each other. Our global approach to education, research, and economic development makes us more knowledgeable of other people and helps us become more diverse and inclusive along the way, locally and abroad. Georgia Tech keeps expanding its reach and amplifying its impact by leading with a culture of collaboration through strategic partnerships with international institutions and world regions fostering innovation to address global challenges and improve the human condition. We want to thank alumni, corporations, and foundations for their generous support. Private philanthropy is key to continuing to expand our reach and achieve our mission. As we engage in mutually beneficial and motivating international activities, we strive to establish best practices through transparency, ethics, and compliance with laws and regulations. Georgia Tech’s international initiatives are motivated by the success of our students and researchers while advancing the interests, security, and well-being of communities, locally, regionally, and nationally. I am honored to serve as the Vice Provost for International Initiatives and very fortunate to join a dedicated and talented team. Our team always looks forward to working with our students and all members of the Georgia Tech community. Bernard Kippelen, Vice Provost for International Initiatives and Steven A. Denning Chair for Global Engagement Bernard Kippelen, Vice Provost for International Initiatives and Steven A. Denning Chair for Global Engagement Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 USA 404.894.7477 Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN