Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. For Penn Alumni & Friends Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support We are committed to bringing the world to Penn and Penn to the world. With over 30,000 located abroad and an unparalleled global network, Penn's alumni are integral to these efforts. Get Involved Inspired by the University’s long-standing commitment to an ethos of global engagement, Penn is more focused now than ever on cultivating a thriving Penn community of students, faculty, alumni and friends poised to effect positive impact worldwide. Join our efforts to sustain Penn's leadership in global engagement and academic diplomacy. Go Back person Support Penn Students We are committed to supporting all members of the Penn community interested in or actively engaging globally. From Penn's International Student Integration Program, to the Penn Global Seminars and Penn Global Research and Internship Program, to Perry World House's World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates programs, there are numerous ways for you to support students and help us provide them with a meaningful global experience during their at Penn. Bring Transformative Global Opportunities to Students Go Back person_search Support Faculty Research Through its competitive grant program, Penn Global provides key support for faculty research initiatives that catalyze entrepreneurial initiatives in a global context. The grant program consists of the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2020), India Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2017), China Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2015), and Global Engagement Fund (est. 2011). Join our efforts to support innovative global faculty research initiatives and help us position Penn as a global leader in research and innovation. Support Penn's Global Faculty Research Initiatives Go Back event Attend an Event Perry World House is Penn's home for global engagement on campus, with a focus on bringing Penn's academic knowledge to bear on some of the world's most pressing global policy challenges. Annually, Perry World House organizes a large range of public events where attendees from around the globe engage with experts from Penn and beyond, in academic, government, and the public sector. In addition, Perry World House offers a comprehensive suite of workshops and colloquia around their two research themes: the Future of the Global Order: Power Technology, and Governance and Global Shifts: Urbanization, Migration, and Climate Change. Notable guest speakers have joined these conferences, including: former United States National Security Advisors, Susan Rice and General H.R. McMaster, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, and Syrian Journalist Zaina Erhaim. Register for an Event Today Go Back connect_without_contact Stay Connected Want to stay connected? Receive the latest updates from across Penn Global and stay informed about the many ways we are bringing the world to Penn and Penn to the world. Perry World House Be the first to receive updates about Perry World House programming and impact. Sign up for the Newsletter Follow Perry World House on Twitter Penn Abroad Discover where Penn students are in the world and learn about their experiences. Follow Penn Abroad on Instagram Follow Penn Abroad on Twitter International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) Meet Penn's international students, learn about the impact they are having on campus, and explore how ISSS supports Penn's thriving international student, scholar, faculty, and staff community. Follow ISSS on Instagram Penn Global Stay apprised of Penn's global engagement activities and learn how we are advancing Penn's global mission. Follow Penn Global on Twitter Go Back person Support Penn Students We are committed to supporting all members of the Penn community interested in or actively engaging globally. From Penn's International Student Integration Program, to the Penn Global Seminars and Penn Global Research and Internship Program, to Perry World House's World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates programs, there are numerous ways for you to support students and help us provide them with a meaningful global experience during their at Penn. Bring Transformative Global Opportunities to Students Go Back person_search Support Faculty Research Through its competitive grant program, Penn Global provides key support for faculty research initiatives that catalyze entrepreneurial initiatives in a global context. The grant program consists of the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2020), India Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2017), China Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2015), and Global Engagement Fund (est. 2011). Join our efforts to support innovative global faculty research initiatives and help us position Penn as a global leader in research and innovation. Support Penn's Global Faculty Research Initiatives Go Back event Attend an Event Perry World House is Penn's home for global engagement on campus, with a focus on bringing Penn's academic knowledge to bear on some of the world's most pressing global policy challenges. Annually, Perry World House organizes a large range of public events where attendees from around the globe engage with experts from Penn and beyond, in academic, government, and the public sector. In addition, Perry World House offers a comprehensive suite of workshops and colloquia around their two research themes: the Future of the Global Order: Power Technology, and Governance and Global Shifts: Urbanization, Migration, and Climate Change. Notable guest speakers have joined these conferences, including: former United States National Security Advisors, Susan Rice and General H.R. McMaster, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, and Syrian Journalist Zaina Erhaim. Register for an Event Today Go Back connect_without_contact Stay Connected Want to stay connected? Receive the latest updates from across Penn Global and stay informed about the many ways we are bringing the world to Penn and Penn to the world. Perry World House Be the first to receive updates about Perry World House programming and impact. Sign up for the Newsletter Follow Perry World House on Twitter Penn Abroad Discover where Penn students are in the world and learn about their experiences. Follow Penn Abroad on Instagram Follow Penn Abroad on Twitter International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) Meet Penn's international students, learn about the impact they are having on campus, and explore how ISSS supports Penn's thriving international student, scholar, faculty, and staff community. Follow ISSS on Instagram Penn Global Stay apprised of Penn's global engagement activities and learn how we are advancing Penn's global mission. Follow Penn Global on Twitter Learn About Penn's Global Mission Throughout the course of its nearly 300 year history, the University of Pennsylvania has sought to follow the example of its founder, Benjamin Franklin, in its commitment to global engagement. Over time, Penn's global vision has deepened and expanded, culminating in the transformation of Penn as a comprehensive global institution. Go Back view_column Penn's Global Strategic Framework The Strategic Framework for Penn’s Global Initiatives aligns institutional priorities with constituent needs to pursue a coordinated, sustainable approach to global engagement, ensuring the University continues as a preeminent university in the U.S. and world in global engagement and academic diplomacy. The University's first global strategic framework was adopted in 2012 and subsequently updated in 2018. At the core of the five-year strategic framework are three pillars: 1) educate global citizens, 2) catalyze transformative ideas, and 3) bring the world to Penn and Penn to the world. Learn More About Penn's Global Strategic Framework Go Back travel_explore Penn's Global Engagement Activities With over 6,000 international students, 2,500 students studying abroad annually, 1,400 faculty reporting activities across all seven continents, and 600 partnerships with institutions around the world, Penn is more global now than at any point in its history. Learn how the Penn community engages with the world by visiting our global activities map. Explore Penn in the World Go Back view_column Penn's Global Strategic Framework The Strategic Framework for Penn’s Global Initiatives aligns institutional priorities with constituent needs to pursue a coordinated, sustainable approach to global engagement, ensuring the University continues as a preeminent university in the U.S. and world in global engagement and academic diplomacy. The University's first global strategic framework was adopted in 2012 and subsequently updated in 2018. At the core of the five-year strategic framework are three pillars: 1) educate global citizens, 2) catalyze transformative ideas, and 3) bring the world to Penn and Penn to the world. Learn More About Penn's Global Strategic Framework Go Back travel_explore Penn's Global Engagement Activities With over 6,000 international students, 2,500 students studying abroad annually, 1,400 faculty reporting activities across all seven continents, and 600 partnerships with institutions around the world, Penn is more global now than at any point in its history. Learn how the Penn community engages with the world by visiting our global activities map. Explore Penn in the World Stay Connected with Penn With over 30,000 alumni located abroad and an unparalleled global alumni network, the University of Pennsylvania truly has a global presence in just about any community in the world. See how you can connect with your colleagues and stay engaged with Penn wherever you may be. Go Back school Penn's International Alumni Clubs Penn’s alumni network includes over 120 international regional clubs offering alumni the chance to reconnect, attend lively events and get involved in collaborative initiatives that impact people and communities. Connect with Penn Alumni Go Back people Penn Alumni Interview Program The Penn Alumni Interview Program is dedicated to offering an interview to every undergraduate applicant to the University of Pennsylvania. In doing so, we are making Penn more accessible to all applicants, are allowing them a chance to advocate for themselves, and are providing Penn Admissions with information they might not otherwise find in an application. Join the Program Go Back school Penn's International Alumni Clubs Penn’s alumni network includes over 120 international regional clubs offering alumni the chance to reconnect, attend lively events and get involved in collaborative initiatives that impact people and communities. Connect with Penn Alumni Go Back people Penn Alumni Interview Program The Penn Alumni Interview Program is dedicated to offering an interview to every undergraduate applicant to the University of Pennsylvania. In doing so, we are making Penn more accessible to all applicants, are allowing them a chance to advocate for themselves, and are providing Penn Admissions with information they might not otherwise find in an application. Join the Program 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy