Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to main content Open menu Utility Menu Students Explore Abroad Choose Texas Global Learning On Campus Study English Immigration Advising Faculty & Staff Global Engagement Opportunities Department and Staff Resources International Scholars Global Community Alumni and Giving Global Programs and Innovation International Education Week Mexico Global Gateway Passport Services Request a Delegation Visit About About Texas Global Senior Vice Provost Welcome Global Engagement & Strategy Reports and Statistics Global Rankings Leadership & Staff Careers Open add menu Global Offices Texas Global partners with faculty, departments, colleges and schools across the university to advance UT Austin’s mission and enhance its international reputation. Global Connections on Campus The depth and scope of UT’s global academics are evident in the vast network of centers, programs and organizations dedicated to international scholarship, research, creative activity and teaching. Global Research and Creative Activity UT faculty engage in research and creative activities on every continent, advancing UT Austin’s academic mission and global impact. Newsroom Events Contact Us Alumni and Giving Donate Open Search form COVID-19 Resources Find the latest information, frequently asked questions, and resources related to Education Abroad and COVID-19. Main navigation Education Abroad Education Abroad Education Abroad Find a Program Find a Program Get Started Search Programs By Major Studying Abroad for Language Reciprocal Exchange Programs Affiliated Programs Semester Programs Short-Term Programs Internships Abroad Research Abroad Service Learning Funding Resources Funding Resources Scholarships First Generation Financial Aid and Loans Veterans Texas Tuition Promise Fund (TGPF) Expenses Apply and Go Apply and Go Education Abroad Advising How to Apply Study Abroad Credit 101 After Acceptance Register Your Travel Non-UT Students About Education Abroad About Education Abroad Staff Directory Events For Parents COVID-19 Information and Resources Initiate a Faculty-Led Program Education Abroad Blog Global Ambassador Program Contact Us You are here Home Education Abroad Education Abroad Global learning is an essential part of your experience at UT and crucial to your career success. You want to go somewhere. We help get you there. Get Started Explore your options, think about your goals, talk to your advisor and get ready to change the world. Find a Program Choose from over 400 programs in 100 countries to fit your academic, professional and personal goals. Funding Resources Discover scholarships, financial aid and low-cost programs and learn about the real cost of education abroad; it’s more affordable than you think. Learn. Explore. Succeed. Going abroad is a fun, exciting and memorable experience. It also has a lasting impact on your career, preparing you to communicate effectively, think critically, and translate your ideas into action. Education Abroad Impact 4,400+ Longhorns study, intern and research abroad every year No. 3 highest education abroad participation in the U.S. $1.2+ million available in scholarships annually 85 percent of UT alumni rank their experience abroad as the top contributor to their success I’m significantly more open-minded. No matter where you are around the world, you run into other people with the same goals that we have: to survive, to succeed, to become educated, to raise families and pass their values down. Life is too short. There is so much of the world to see outside of our little bubble of friends and the city we live in. Adil Danawala, B.S. '18 Chemical Engineering , studied abroad in Singapore By Major You can study abroad, earn credit toward your degree and graduate on time with a head start on your career. International Internships Develop a competitive resume, experience international work environments, and build a global network to support your professional goals. First Abroad If you’re first gen, you can be first abroad. Find resources and customized support exclusively for students who are first in their family to attend college. President’s Award for Global Learning Earn credit, travel abroad and work closely with a team of your peers and leading faculty on research, entrepreneurship and social-impact projects. Global Virtual Exchange Gain international experience without leaving campus by enrolling in a course that leverages collaborative online international learning with an international partner university. Peace Corps and Peace Corps Prep Join the nearly 2,000 Longhorn alumni who have served in 135 countries across five continents and learn about a new certificate program to strengthen your application. For Parents For Faculty For Advisors/Departments MyAbroad Portal MyCredit Abroad (MyCA) Global Assist Scholarships Education Abroad Events Wed, Jun 1 2022 11:30am - 1:00pm Education Abroad Live Q&A Location: Zoom Wed, Jun 1 2022 5:30 - 6:30pm Fulbright Health and Safety Orientation Location: Zoom Tue, Jun 7 2022 11:30am - 1:00pm Education Abroad Live Q&A Location: Zoom All Education Abroad Events Helpful Links Photo and Video Contest Global Ambassador Program Application Deadlines Expenses Global Risk and Safety We monitor worldwide travel conditions and provide health and safety support. Restricted Regions Register Your Travel Health Clearances Safety Updates More Global Risk and Safety Resources Featured Global Career Launch Discover opportunities to prepare yourself for the global marketplace with internship experiences abroad. Education Abroad Blog Check out what Longhorns are doing around the world. Read their stories and explore their adventures as they photograph and reflect on their lives beyond the Forty Acres. Education Abroad Stories Student Experiences Students Travel with Division of Diversity to Study in Dubai, Abu Dhabi Global Programs Student Experiences Trombone Choir Set for Switzerland Residency via Global Career Launch Alumni & Giving Global Programs Being a  Longhorn is About Making Things Happen: Q&A with Global Longhorn Alumnus Dhawal Doshi   All Education Abroad Stories On Social Powered by Curator.io Education Abroad on Social Media facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Make a Gift Contact 2400 Nueces Street Suite B Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-1211 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., Monday – Friday Passport Services 8 a.m. – 2 p.m. Monday - Friday More Information Careers Communications Emergency Support Information for Departments International Travel Policies Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Website Feedback © The University of Texas at Austin 2022