Skip to menu Skip to content WSU Cougar Head Logo WSU Global Campus WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Menu Menu Close WSU Global Campus Home Online Degrees Undergraduate Accounting Anthropology Biology Criminal Justice Data Analytics Economics English Environmental and Ecosystem Sciences History Hospitality Business Management Human Development Humanities Integrated Strategic Communication Management Management Information Systems Marketing Political Science Psychology Senior Living Management Social Sciences Sociology Minors Graduate Agriculture Food Science & Management Option Plant Health Management Option Electrical Power Engineering (PSM) Engineering and Technology Management Executive MBA Health Communication & Promotion MBA Music Software Engineering Special Education Strategic Communication Certificates Teaching Endorsements Get Started Undergrad Dates and Deadlines Start Your Application Transfer Student Former WSU Student Current WSU Student Running Start Homeschool Freshman Adult Freshman International Student Non-Degree-Seeking Student Graduate Student Talk With Us Get More Info Explore Careers Admissions Team Change of Campus Form About Who Are Global Campus Students? Our History Why WSU Quality Flexibility Community Meet Future Cougs Student Experience Student Involvement Student Services Outstanding Seniors Cost Policies State Authorization Complaint Process Privacy Notice Campus Safety Global Campus Blog Contact Us Current Student Close WSU Global Campus 100% Online. 100% WSU. Washington State University is a top-tier, non-profit public research university that has been inspiring greatness in students since 1890. Our students, faculty, and alumni make the world a better place. Since 1992, WSU Global Campus has been bringing the best of WSU to students around the globe who demand a highly engaging and transformative education but prefer to learn and study on their own turf. Cutting-edge academic technologies enable WSU faculty to bring their courses to life in an online format. Our faculty include world-renowned researchers and industry experts dedicated to teaching. Our students bring a wealth of work and life experiences and diverse perspectives that enhance learning. We are the ideal choice for learners who seek an educational experience that only a top-tier university can provide, but who have work, family, or military obligations or lifestyles that require maximum flexibility. Get Started U.S. News & World Report ranks WSU Global Campus as one of the best online undergraduate programs in the nation. Why Become an Online Coug? Students from around the world become online Cougs for a wide variety of reasons. Meet some 2021 #FutureCougs and find out why they chose WSU Global Campus! Explore all our high-demand online programs 21 Undergrad Majors 13 Graduate Degrees 13 Certificate Programs 1 Teaching Endorsement Career Advising Not sure which degree to pursue, or have questions about career options for the degree you’re interested in? Then you’ll want to work with our career advisor to help you get on the right track. Complete this Career Advising form to get started. A Better Way to Learn The combination of convenience, flexibility and ease of use that came with WSU’s online degree was perfect for my hectic schedule and busy lifestyle. –Max Crismon, Vancouver, WA Learn more about Max’s experience at WSU Global Campus The Latest News History lecturer selected for Excellence in Online Teaching Award May 18, 2022 jeffry.willadsen By Jeff Willadsen, Academic Outreach and Innovation Karl Krotke-Crandall, lecturer for Washington State University’s Department of History, is the winner of the 2021-22 Excellence in Online Teaching Award. The student-nominated annual award is sponsored by WSU Academic Outreach and Innovation. The award, now in its sixth year, seeks to acknowledge and reward Washington State University faculty members […] Read Story COVID-19 Updates More Resources WSU Related Global Campus Websites Get TechReady Current Student Global Connections ASWSUG Non-credit Options WSU Global Campus, PO Box 645220 Pullman, WA 99164-5220, 800-222-4978, 509-335-3557 online@wsu.edu Go to wsu twitter Go to wsu facebook Go to wsu instagram Go to wsu youtube WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU