Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Conversation with FU Chengyu and ZHANG Guobao on Energy and Climate Change Events Past Event Conversation with FU Chengyu and ZHANG Guobao on Energy and Climate Change Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 9, 2017 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing Event Intro On June 9, the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and the Center for International Energy Strategy Studies of Renmin University will host a conversation and a signing ceremony for their research partnership at Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. David Sandalow from Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy will serve as the moderator and conduct a conversation with ZHANG Guobao and FU Chengyu on energy and climate change. Special Guests ZHANG Guobao is a former Vice Chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission and former Director of the National Energy Administration. He became the director of the Office for Northeast Economic Revitalization in 2004, and in 2007, the Director of the National Energy Administration, in 1999, the Vice Chairman of the National Planning & Reform Commission. He left active politics in January 2011. He held a seat on the Standing Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference as vice Chairman of Economic Commission until 2013. FU Chengyu is the former Chairman of China Petroleum and Chemical Corp (Sinopec) and CEO of China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC). He currently serves as the Chair of the UN Global Compact China Network. Fu was the Chairman of the Sinopec Group from 2011 to 2015. His career at CNOOC included serving as General Manager of CNOOC Nanhai East Corporation and Chairman of the Management Committees. He received a master's degree in petroleum engineering from the University of Southern California. Moderator David Sandalow is the Inaugural Fellow at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy. He launched and directs the Center's U.S.-China Program and has written, most recently, on topics including renewable energy finance, energy diplomacy and carbon dioxide utilization. Mr. Sandalow has served in senior positions at the White House, State Department and U.S. Department of Energy. He came to Columbia from the U.S. Department of Energy, where he served as Under Secretary of Energy (acting) and Assistant Secretary for Policy & International Affairs. Prior to serving at DOE, Mr. Sandalow was a Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, as well as Energy & Climate Change Working Group Chair at the Clinton Global Initiative. He has served as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Environment & Science and a Senior Director on the National Security Council staff. Agenda 11：00 a.m. - 12：00 p.m. David Sandalow's conversation with ZHANG Guobao and FU Chengyu 12：00 p.m. - 12：05 p.m. Signing Ceremony for Research Partnership between Columbia University and Renmin University 12：05 p.m. - 12：10 p.m. Remarks by Representative of Center for International Energy Strategy Studies of Renmin University 12：10 p.m. - 12：15 p.m. Remarks by Representative of Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs Organizers Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs Center for International Energy Strategy Studies of Renmin University Supported by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close