Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Alumni Gathering Event for Columbia University's Department Of Music Events Past Event Alumni Gathering Event for Columbia University's Department Of Music Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska with Tan Dun March 12, 2018 6:30 PM - 8:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing The Department of Music at Columbia University is one of the oldest and most distinguished at any American university. It was founded in 1896 by Edward MacDowell (1860-1908). On March 12, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will co-host an alumni gathering event for Columbia University's Department Of Music, featuring Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska, Director of the Music Performance Program and Lecturer in Music (Piano and Harpsichord) at Columbia University's Department of Music. She will share her experience working with maestro Tan Dun, specifically on his Martial Arts Trilogy. Included in the discussion will be aspects of the dynamic between the performer and a living composer, incorporation of multimedia, preparation process, and the relationship of the performer to the 21st-century audience. We welcome all alumni from Department of Music, and alumni from other schools and departments who are interested with and working in the music related industry, and anyone who is interested in applying to Columbia's Department of Music to come attend the event. Speaker Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska is Director of the Music Performance Program and Lecturer in Music (Piano and Harpsichord) at Columbia University's Department of Music. The press describes her as a “world-class” musician (The American Record Guide), and a “player of taste and admirable sensitivity” (Palm Beach Arts Paper). Her performances have been praised as “eloquent & technically flawless” (The Washington Post). Dr. Baczewska has performed with the San Francisco Symphony, China National Symphony, and Macao Symphony, among others. She has appeared in concert with maestro Tan Dun, with whom she has enjoyed an extensive collaboration, as well as with violinist Joshua Bell, and performed throughout Europe, China, and the US, appearing in Carnegie Hall (NYC), Davies Symphony Hall (San Francisco), National Center for Performing Arts (Beijing), Guangzhou Opera House (Guangzhou), and Salle Cortot (Paris), among others. She has toured Europe and the US with double performances of Bach’s Goldberg Variations, which she performed twice in one evening, on the harpsichord, then on piano. Agenda 6:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Registration 6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska: "Collaboration with Tan Dun through Performances of His Martial Arts Trilogy. Lessons Learned." 7:00 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Q&A 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Informal Discussion Special Notice The event will be conducted in English Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code of confirmation. Please present the QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier and no later than 20 minutes after the registration. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please leave us a message below or email to [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close