Header Menu Courses Alumni Faculty & Staff, Fellows Contact Us Donate Department of Global Health Menu About Us Mega_UW_Space_Needle.png Close The skyline of Seattle, a city home to some of the most innovative and exciting developments in global health. View image caption About Us Who We Are Vision, Mission & Values Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Where We Work Leadership Council External Advisory Board Awards & Recognition Partners & Affiliations Organizational Chart Contact Us Jobs Our Work megamenu_ourwork.jpg Close The on-the-ground team for the CATCH study, which sought to find undiagnosed HIV+ children. Photo courtesy of Global Center for Integrated Health of Women, Adolescents, and Children (Global WACh). View image caption Our Work: Research, Service & Capacity Building Centers, Programs and Initiatives Current Projects Global Environmental Change Health Economics Health Metrics & Evaluation Health System Strengthening Implementation Science Infectious Diseases Injury & Violence Prevention Laboratory Sciences Medicine Safety Mental Health Social Justice Women's, Adolescents' & Children's Health Our Impact megamenu_impact.jpg Close Children at a community health event in Timor Leste, one of the locations where Health Alliance International has maternal-child health programs. Photo credit: Jessica Dyer (MPH '15), George Povey Fellow. View image caption Our Impact Where we work Featured Projects Alumni Publications Academic Programs mega2015_DGHGraduation_JenniferLoomisPhoto_8894.png Close MPH graduates celebrating their achievement. Photo credit: Jennifer Loomis. View image caption Academic Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Master of Public Health Doctor of Global Health Leadership and Practice PhD in Global Health Metrics & Implementation Science PhD in Pathobiology Graduate Certificates Medical Student Programs Residents & Fellows Training Programs For High School Students Academic Programs Organizational Chart Student Services Minor Leadership Students at WRIHC Portland 2013_Group 2.png Close Global health minor students at a conference in Portland. View image caption Student Services Academic Advisors Student Funding Opportunities and Support Career Services & Jobs Search Student Blog News & Events 2020_GlobalHealthieswinners_600x200.jpg Close Global Healthies 2020 Winners View image caption News & Events Latest News Events & Conferences Graduation Press Room Search Enter a keyword to search Home Academic Programs PhD in Pathobiology PhD in Pathobiology Homepage_Pathobiology_Laura-Martinez_Salama-lab-freezer_Cr-Katherine-Turner.png Close Pathobiology student Laura Martinez works in the Salama lab at Fred Hutch. Photo credit: Katherine Turner. View image caption Passion Never Rests Become an independent scholar Pathobiology student Laura Martinez lab-slide Cr-Katherine-Turner Close Pathobiology student Laura Martinez looks at a lab-slide in Dr. Salama's lab. Photo credit: Katherine Turner View image caption Driven to Discover Cutting-edge approaches to ending infectious diseases Homepage Pathobiology Andrew Soerens pipet Close Pathobiology student Andrew Soerens in Dr. Lund's lab at Fred Hutch. Photo credit: Katherine Turner. View image caption Be the first Preventing autoimmune diseases As a discipline, Pathobiology ties together the fundamental concepts of biology, medicine, and public health, particularly as applied to global health issues. The program applies a multidisciplinary approach as well as the latest research technologies to the study of public health problems such as viral, bacterial and parasitic diseases, as well as other conditions such as cancer. By investigating the mechanisms underlying multifactorial diseases, our program emphasizes the preventive as well as the curative, and a broader view of disease etiology. The program applies the research tools of immunology, molecular biology, pathology, and genetics to the detection and characterization of cancer, sexually transmitted diseases, and respiratory and parasitic infections. The Pathobiology Graduate Program offers research and training programs leading to the Doctor of Philosophy and Master of Science degrees. Coursework includes basic courses in pathobiology, with additional courses required in epidemiology and molecular biology. Students may also choose electives from other basic medical sciences, such as microbiology, biochemistry, pathology, and genetics. The Program places equal emphasis on research and training for both graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. The Pathobiology Graduate Program has established learning objectives for its doctoral program: Develop a fundamental understanding of basic cellular and molecular processes and techniques important in the application of basic biomedical research to diseases of global public health interest. Specifically, this includes familiarity with the paradigms for control, prevention, and treatment of diseases of public health importance, an understanding of the epidemiology and diseases processes of important diseases of national and international importance, an understanding of how biomedical research can approach such diseases, and basic methodologies used in this type of research, including relevant areas of molecular biology, epidemiology, and biostatistics. Students are also expected to develop familiarity with the major classes of pathogens. Become an independent scholar capable of conducting independent research leading to the expansion of knowledge of Pathobiology. This includes developing the skills to approach an unfamiliar experimental system, and identify and explore important questions concerning pathogenesis and infection. Learn to collect, analyze, interpret, and use data for solving problems in Pathobiology. Develop advanced research skills and expertise in the area of his/her research concentration. Develop skills in communicating research findings to scientific audiences through publications and oral presentations. At the University of Washington, diversity is integral to excellence. We value and honor diverse experiences and perspectives, strive to create welcoming and respectful learning environments, and promote access, opportunity and justice for all. Admissions Quick Links Curriculum Program Events Policies Faculty Resources Pathobiology Factsheet Pathobiology Faculty Student Resources Handbooks & Resources Forms Milestone Checklists Contact Info pabio@uw.edu Leadership Director: Jennifer Lund Program Manager: Ernest R. Lefler Upcoming Events Partner Organizations Training and Mentorships Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center Seattle Children's Research Institute Back to top Back to top Meet our Alumni Emily Gage Coler Lab Jay Vornhagen Rajagopal Lab Mary Dickinson Hybiske Lab Andreia Costa Lund Lab Back to top A DEPARTMENT WITHIN: School of Public Health School of Medicine Connect to Social Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Footer Menu Home Events Calendar Intranet for Faculty & Staff Communications Resources Latest News Contact Us Donate Jobs Newsletter Sign up to learn about news, upcoming events, and opportunities. Get the Newsletter ©2022 University of Washington UW Privacy UW Terms Site managed by DGHweb