Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Penn Global Research & Engagement Grant Program China Research and Engagement Fund Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Fund Priorities Penn's China Research and Engagement Fund catalyzes and supports projects and initiatives that: Advance the interdisciplinary study, teaching, and engagement of China and position Penn as a key source of knowledge and ideas on China-related issues, topics, and challenges. Strengthens relationships between the Penn Wharton China Center in Beijing (PWCC) and the greater Penn community. Impact 38 Total number of grants supporting projects across disciplines. 34 Number of Penn faculty engaged with primary affiliations with 11 of Penn's 12 Schools. Current & Past Projects Established in 2015, Penn's China Research and Engagement Fund (CREF) was designed to stimulate and support research activity and engagement in China. Since, CREF has supported a range of projects that integrate knowledge to address issues of local, regional, and global significance, including the Future of U.S.-China Relations, a project developed by the Center for the Study of Contemporary China that highlights twenty “next generation” thinkers, advised by several senior scholars and practitioners, to offer assessments and make recommendations on key issues in several areas of U.S. policies towards China. CREF projects have also spurred new initiatives that expand Penn's engagement with China. Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures Katherine Hellerstein’s China and Ashkenazic European Jewry project led to the creation of a new seminar for Penn undergraduates on the history of Judaism in China. Learn more about the work of current and past CREF faculty awardees. Explore All CREF Projects Featured Project Targeted Stroke Therapy Professor of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Renyu Liu’s Targeted Stroke Therapy Awareness project aims to promote the stroke awareness in China through various platforms and measure the effectiveness of such promotion and the overall outcome of stroke patients. The project has produced 11 peer-reviewed journal publications, a Chinese-language stroke awareness video that has been viewed hundreds of millions of times, and a short film that won Best Short Narrative Film at the 2021 New York International Film Festival. For Applicants & Awardees Go Back upload_file Apply for a Grant Penn Global welcomes proposals from members of the Penn community seeking support for their global research activities or convenings. Learn more about both grant opportunities. travel_search Research Grant workspaces Convening Grant Go Back format_list_bulleted Manage My Grant If you are receiving support from the Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant Program, learn about what you need to do to get started and to effectively manage your grant. MANAGE MY GRANT Go Back upload_file Apply for a Grant Penn Global welcomes proposals from members of the Penn community seeking support for their global research activities or convenings. Learn more about both grant opportunities. travel_search Research Grant workspaces Convening Grant Go Back format_list_bulleted Manage My Grant If you are receiving support from the Penn Global Research and Engagement Grant Program, learn about what you need to do to get started and to effectively manage your grant. MANAGE MY GRANT Resources & Partners Engaging China Beyond the Fund Beyond Penn's China Research and Engagement Fund, there are a number of ways the Penn community can engage China. To start, we encourage you to learn more about the history of Penn and China and to learn of Penn's ongoing efforts to advance University engagement in and with China. We also encourage the Penn community to visit our valued partners, whose work centers on the study and understanding of China. Partners include but are not limited to the Penn Wharton China Center, Center for the Study of Contemporary China, Center for East Asian Studies, and the Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations. History of Penn & China 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy