University of Southern California USC Global Menu Skip to content search Global Engagement Signature Programs Educating Global Leaders Research Centers & Institutes Creative Technologies Global Database Global Presence International Offices Country Scholarship Funds Alumni Clubs USC International Academy Student Travel Abroad Program Search Departments Offering Travel Abroad Policies & Guidelines Student Health Insurance International SOS Management Login Resources & Policies Return to Content Ukraine Assistance Signature Programs Learn more » Educating Global Leaders Learn more » Research Centers & Institutes Learn more » The World Leader in Creative Technologies Learn More » A Unique Global Leader Internationally recognized for its academics and cutting-edge research, the University of Southern California is home to 47,500 students from more than 150 countries with more than 400,000 alumni worldwide. Located in the creative capital of the world, known for innovation and international trade, USC is among a small number of institutions on which the world depends for a steady stream of new knowledge. At USC, you will encounter different perspectives, experience new cultures, and collaborate with influential scholars and professionals who are making a meaningful impact in countless fields. USC Global Database USC prepares students to thrive in the global marketplace by emphasizing research, study abroad and service learning opportunities that span countries and continents. Search our global database to browse our international programs and the university's worldwide partnerships. Featured News and Events [EVENT] Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to address American universities Monday 5/16 on future of higher ed in Ukraine May 15th, 2022 The Association of American Universities will livestream an address by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at 8 a.m. PDT Monday, May 16. Why Has Russia Invaded Ukraine? USC Experts Break Down the Conflict in Global Discussion March 14th, 2022 For the past few weeks, USC students, faculty, staff and alumni alike have watched in horror as Russian military forces continue to carry out a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The sight of gunfire being exchanged, airstrikes… Russia-Ukraine war forces Europe’s largest refugee crisis since WWII, scarring generations March 11th, 2022 More than 2.5 million Ukrainians have fled to neighboring countries as Russia has launched attacks against civilians to capture their homeland — and more are expected to leave. As the violence escalates, USC experts say that reports of Russian war crimes against civilians are flooding into the… On International Women’s Day, a USC researcher explains intersection of global health and women’s rights March 8th, 2022 Laura Ferguson believes attention to human rights can improve health outcomes — particularly in child health, sexual and reproductive health and the treatment and prevention of HIV. Ferguson, director of research at the USC Institute on Inequalities in Global Health, has worked at the intersection… Technology, nuclear power are driving issues in the Russia-Ukraine war March 5th, 2022 The Russian economy was crushed in the span of a week. Europe is questioning its reliance on Russian oil and gas. Meanwhile, nuclear plants across Ukraine have been vulnerable to Russian strikes and potential disaster. The repercussions of Russia’s war on Ukraine are rippling out far beyond the…Read more » › News Global stories on USC News. Copyright © 2021 University of Southern California Feedback Site by USC ITS Web Services Content managed by USC Strategic and Global Initiatives Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination