Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Gender Justice on Campus Events Past Event Gender Justice on Campus Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 2, 2019 6:00 PM - 7:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai, 12-13, Maker Chambers VI, First floor, Jamnalal Bajaj Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 As part of its Higher Education Reform initiative, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai invites you to an event on May 2, 2019, that highlights current frameworks for creating gender equity in universities and colleges in India. According to a 2018 Government of India report, female enrollment in higher education rose to 47.6% of total enrollment, representing a quarter of the female population in the 18-23 years demographic. At the same time, issues of sexual harassment, gender-based violence and discrimination on educational campuses persist and hinder educational equality and justice for female students. While initiatives like the University Grants Commission-instituted Internal Complaints Committees and Women’s Development Cells exist in colleges to tackle issues of sexual misconduct and expand gender sensitization on campus, their ability to effect change needs further assessment. A lecture presented by Dr. Leena Pujari, followed by a panel discussion moderated by Dr. Ravina Aggarwal and featuring Dr. Gita Chadha and Dr. Nandita Shah, will deliberate gender gaps and address key programs and best practices undertaken in universities and colleges to foster gender equity and sensitization among students and staff. Panelists will explore how organizational, regulatory and curricular changes could create more gender inclusive, respectful and just educational campuses in India. To register, please send an email to [email protected] About the speakers: Dr. Leena Pujari is a feminist sociologist and researcher who believes in teaching for social transformation and nurturing critical and analytical minds. Currently, she is Associate Professor and Head, Department of Sociology at K.C. College in Mumbai. Her most recent publications include 'Doing Sociology of Gender in the Classroom: Re-imagining Pedagogies' published by Sage, 'Transforming the Sociology Classroom: Implementing a Critical Feminist Pedagogy' in an edited volume published by Routledge, and 'Sexual Harassment is Endemic in Academic Spaces: An Insider's Perspective' published in Economic and Political Weekly. As member of the Board of Studies in Sociology at the University of Mumbai, she has contributed extensively to curriculum design and development, especially in the field of Feminist Sociology. Among her several meaningful initiatives and programs as Convener of the Gender Issues Cell of her college, is a Certificate Course in Gender Studies to help build a critical feminist perspective among students, setting up a Legal Cell to provide free legal counseling to students and staff members on issues of domestic violence and sexual harassment. Gita Chadha is a faculty member at the Department of Sociology, University of Mumbai, India. She has a doctorate in sociology and has taught at undergraduate colleges at the Mumbai University, and on the International programme of the University of London in Mumbai. She has developed frameworks for feminist archiving at the Research Centre for Women’s Studies, SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai, India. Dr. Chadha has designed innovative pedagogic initiatives for integrating science and social science teaching. Her publications include a co-edited volume called Zero Point Bombay, several articles on science criticism, two volumes on Feminists and Science (co-edited with Sumi Krishna), Re-Imagining Sociology in India: Feminist Perspectives (co-edited with M.T. Joseph), and special issues for Contributions to Indian Sociology and Economic and Political Weekly. She is the Chairperson of the University Women’s Development Cell of the University of Mumbai since 2016 and is a Board Member of Akshara. Her research interests lie in science studies, feminist theories and post-colonial studies. She has also collaborated with women artists and poets in building common understandings of feminist art practices in India. A feminist activist and researcher, Dr. Nandita Shah is the Co-founder and Co-director of a non-profit and women’s rights organization called Akshara Centre. With experience of over 25 years, Dr. Shah has been strengthening the women’s movement through her activism and writing at the regional, national as well as international level. By mobilizing support from corporates, the media and celebrities and by using her expertise to lead institutionalized initiatives with the police and local authorities, Dr. Shah has been working towards creating safer cities for women and enhancing the reach of feminist agendas. With a PhD in social science from the University of Amsterdam, she has taught Women’s Studies for over 8 years and was recently invited to the University of Connecticut as a visiting professor. She has been on several expert committees, including Gender Rights with the Planning Commission, drafting women’s policy in Maharashtra, and the Civil Society Advisory Group of UN Women. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close