Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home "Undeterred - A Rural Boy's Journey to the Pinnacle of Academia" by Prof. John Sorana Akama Events Past Event "Undeterred - A Rural Boy's Journey to the Pinnacle of Academia" by Prof. John Sorana Akama Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 8, 2021 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM Nairobi Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi is pleased to introduce our ongoing virtual book series featuring African authors! With this series, we hope to offer a platform where African writers can engage a global audience, offering not just their work but exciting perspectives on how personal, political, and cultural experiences drive their storytelling. In his book, Undeterred – A Rural Boy’s Journey to the Pinnacle of Academia, Prof. John Akama presents his unique and very personal story. This is unlike most of his contemporaries who have chosen not or have yet to document their personal experiences. Prof. Akama grew up in a simple rural African setting in Kenya’s hinterland and was raised by a typical Kenyan peasant family with meager resources and limited frills. He went through early childhood enculturation and basic education in rural Kenya schools, characterized by limited educational resources, scant infrastructure, and minimal facilities. Through high school and university, his path was characterized by daunting challenges and setbacks. Being one who does not give up easily, and notwithstanding the many odds encountered, he managed to succeed on several fronts to get to the pinnacle of academia and university leadership. Prof. Akama’s discourse is a vivid testimony that all of us, as human beings, can overcome many life challenges that come our way if we are guided by principles of determination, selflessness, focus, commitment, and hard work. Join us on 8th September at 4 pm Nairobi/9 am New York, as we engage with Prof. John Akama and discussants Dr. George Nyadoro and Dr. Margaret Barasa with Wendy Njoroge - as the Moderator. As you interact with the book, you will learn that in life, taking a strategic path of positive thinking, commitment, and hard work can lead to success and eventual achievement of cherished dreams and aspirations, even against all odds that may stand in the way. Expand all Collapse all Author Prof. John Sorana Akama Prof. John Sorana Akama is the Vice-Chancellor of Kisii University. He is the founding Principal of the then Kisii University College, which he led to formally acquire a Charter in 2013 to become a full-fledged university. Prof. Akama did his undergraduate studies in education at the University of Nairobi. He then proceeded to the USA, where he undertook his Master's and Ph.D. studies at Ohio State University and Southern Illinois University. On returning to Kenya, he joined Moi University as a Lecturer and rose to the rank of Professor, teaching at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Over the years, Prof. Akama has conducted extensive research and has published widely in diverse areas such as culture, sociology, and tourism, and wildlife conservation. His keen interest and research in the evolution, culture, and history of the Gusii are reflected in this book. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Wendy Njoroge Wendy Njoroge is a book curator, entrepreneur, community builder, and reading advocate who has formal and informal experience in the book industry in Kenya. As a bookseller and community builder, she served as the lead in marketing for the biggest bookshop chain in Kenya for five years, where she established & hosted the largest corporate-sponsored book club. Wendy has since transitioned to becoming an entrepreneur-focused on filling market gaps of access and availability of books in Kenya under Soma Nami Books. Soma Nami Books is a book lovers hub comprising a book club, bookstore, book subscription service, and book forum. As a curator at Books & Wine (a community of books and wine enthusiasts), Wendy drives the discoverability of books and literary works. The community interacts through the Books & Wine website, newsletter, social media, and regular events. As a reading advocate, driven by the conviction of books' transformative power, she is part of a trio that runs a vodcast (video podcast) named Things Fall Together, which uses literary works to highlight, interrogate, and spark conversation about current issues in society. Expand all Collapse all Discussants Dr. Margaret Barasa Dr. Margaret Barasa is an experienced lecturer with a demonstrated history of working in the higher education industry. Dr. Barasa is skilled in research, preparing newsletters, proofreading, editing, and in aspects of language and culture. She also has a strong education professional with a Ph.D. focused in Linguistics from Laikipia University, Master of Arts in English Language and Linguistics, and BED Arts from Egerton University. Dr. George Obara Nyandoro Dr. George Obara Nyadoro teaches literature in the Department of Languages, Linguistics, and Literature at Kisii University. He is also the director of the Board of Post Graduate studies at the university. His specialization is in life writing, but he is interested in literary criticism, film criticism, and identity politics. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close