Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Leading the Charge into China Events Past Event Leading the Charge into China Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 30, 2020 8:00 AM - 9:00 AM Online Time: October 30, 2020, 8:00-9:00 AM (Beijing) | October 29, 2020, 8:00-9:00 PM (New York) Please join us for a special event with Beijing Center's advisory board member Wei Sun Christianson, Co-CEO of Asia Pacific and CEO of China for Morgan Stanley, in conversation with Lulu Chow Wang '83. What you'll learn: How Christianson is establishing Morgan Stanley’s footprint in China, an extremely lucrative market The two things Americans get wrong about China The qualities she looks for as she builds a team Why she switched from law (she holds a JD from Columbia Law School) to investment banking This event is organized by the Jerome A. Chazen Institute for Global Business and is cosponsored by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. Speakers Wei Sun Christianson is a Managing Director, and CoCEO of Asia Pacific and CEO of China for Morgan Stanley. She is also a member of the Firm's Management Committee. She first joined Morgan Stanley in 1998 working in the Firm's investment banking division. Between 2002 and 2005 she served as Chairman for China for Credit Suisse and subsequently for Citigroup Global Markets. She rejoined Morgan Stanley at the beginning of 2006 as the Firm's CEO for China. Before starting her investment banking career, Wei Sun Christianson was an Associate Director at the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) where she helped formulate the regulations in preparation for the Hong Kong public listings of the first group of Mainland Chinese companies in 1993. Prior to this, she was a lawyer in New York with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe. Ms. Christianson has been named in Fortune magazine's Most Powerful Women (MPW) "International list" for eleven consecutive years since 2008. She was one of the Financial Times' twelve "Women of 2013". She has also been on Fortune's "China Powerful Women" and Forbes' "Businesswomen in China" lists since 2009. Ms. Christianson serves as a member of the Board of Directors of the Estée Lauder Companies Inc. She is also a member of the Board of Advisors at Hospital for SpecialSurgery (HSS) in New York. Ms. Christianson graduated cum laude from Amherst College, Massachusetts. In 1989 she received her J.D. degree from the Columbia University School of Law and is admitted to practice law in the State of New York. She is married with three children. Lulu Chow Wang is the Chief Executive Officer of Tupelo Capital Management LLC, which she founded in 1998. Before that, she was a Director and Executive Vice President of Jennison Associates Capital Corporation for ten years. At Jennison, a primary platform for public equities management at Prudential Financial, Ms. Wang managed multibillion-dollar funds for pension, endowment, and mutual funds. Ms. Wang, a 1983 graduate of Columbia Business School, serves on the boards of Columbia Business School, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Rockefeller University, Asia Society, and the Chazen Institute for Global Business. She is also a trustee emerita of Wellesley College as well as of New York Public Radio. In 2010 Ms. Wang founded the Wang Senior Visiting Scholar program to build a robust sharing of expertise and networks between the CBS community and outstanding leaders throughout Asia. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close