Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! September 20, 2021 This spring semester TU will offer 6 travel courses. These are courses offered during the spring semester that include a group trip during Spring Break or in May right after the end of spring classes. The courses carry an additional study abroad fee, but scholarships are available. You can enroll using SELF SERVICE and you also need to complete a CGE registration using the links below. Spring Break: NSG4133: International Nursing and Technology, March 11 – 19, 2022*, London, England, Professor Cassandra Barrow – Course fee: US$4,500* Spring Extension: MGT3063: Organizational Behavior. May 8 – 18*, 2022, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Sweden, Professor Heather Anderson. Course fee: US$4,900* Honors 1013: Medieval and Renaissance. May 5 – 25, 2022*, Rome, Florence, Italy, Professor Donald Prudlo. Course fee: US$4,900* SPAN4041+SPAN4043: Don Quixote. May 9 – 20, 2022*, Madrid, Toledo, Spain, Professor Christopher Anderson. Course fee: US$4,900* . Students can take this course as a 4 credit course or 1 credit (travel only). Block II/MS 2003/3003: Public Space and the City. May 8 – 18, 2022*, Greece and Italy Professor Mark Brewin. Course fee: US$4,500* ANTH4503 Paradise Lost: Colonialism and Environmental Change. May 9-23, 2022*, St. Croix. Professor Thomas Foster. Course fee: US$3,800* * Dates and Fees are subject to change. Courses may be canceled and modified if the situation requires it. Scholarships & Grants for Faculty-led Travel Courses: CGE Travel Grant: Apply by 11/20/2021 (so students know if they received the award by the Faculty-led commitment deadline of December 1st). About 10 students per course will receive $1,500 travel grants applied to their course fee. Critical Need Grant: Apply by 11/01/2021. Must be considered Critical Need by Student Financial Services. Gilman Scholarship: Apply by 10/05/2021. Must be receiving Federal Pell Grant. Questions? Contact the course Faculty member or the CGE at globalengagement@utulsa.edu. Global Education GLOBAL EDUCATION: LIFE ABROAD Recent Posts Meet the 2022 Global Graduates Statement on the situation in Ukraine Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! Study abroad in Ghana 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT