Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Register Your Travel Breadcrumb Home Travel Travel Planning Travel Planning Preparing for international travel? With the COVID-19 pandemic and related travel restrictions continuing in many world regions, your planning process is more important than ever. How intensively you need to plan depends on your destination, your familiarity with international travel, and your anticipated activities. On this page, you'll find some things that everyone should do to prepare for a safe and healthy time abroad. Get Started at Cornell Register your international travel. All students, staff, and faculty are required to have their Cornell-related international travel plans documented in Cornell’s international travel registry. By supplying the registry with your itinerary, emergency contact information, and the purpose of your travel, among other things, you supply what Cornell needs to know to provide you with resources and assistance during an incident, crisis, or emergency abroad. Register as soon as you have your travel plans in place. Reach out to IHSS. Cornell’s International Health, Safety, and Security (IHSS) team is always ready to discuss your travel plans and help you find valuable resources to meet your particular needs. Email us to get started. If you need to report a non-emergency incident abroad, complete the online international incident report form. In an emergency, call your local "911" or International SOS at +1-215-942-8478—or use the mobile app—and reference your membership number: 11BSCA827281. Comply with IRB and export control laws. Ensure that your applicable research is either exempted from review or approved by Cornell's Institutional Review Board (IRB) before you begin. Comply with applicable export control laws, including all devices, software, and data that you plan to take outside the United States. Learn about Cornell Library services while you're away from campus. Check Your Papers Before You Travel Make sure your travel documents are valid. There’s nothing worse than finding out at the airport that your passport is about to expire—or arriving in a foreign country without the correct visa and being sent home. Don't let it happen to you. Find out what you need to know and learn about Cornell's preferred visa vendor on our Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records page. Check on your health insurance. Cornell's no-cost insurance covers accidents, sickness, and emergency care for most travelers abroad. However, this insurance does not cover routine or ongoing care, maternity care, or out-patient mental health counseling. If you expect to need this type of care while abroad, speak with your domestic insurance provider to verify coverage abroad or purchase a supplemental plan. Acquire any required COVID-19 testing documentation. You will likely need to meet specific COVID-19 test requirements to enter another country. Many countries require a test (e.g., PCR, antigen, antibody) to have been done no more than 72 hours, or less, before the international (final) leg of your trip. You may need formal documentation of this test and negative results. Refer to Cornell's Global Risk Management and Assistance Program, International SOS, for COVID-19 test requirements, quarantine protocols, and entry restrictions for anywhere in the world. Requirements may change quickly and without notice; verify with your airline which types of tests or other documentation are accepted for boarding. Cornell's surveillance and supplemental testing programs are available during regular business hours. Please visit this page on medical documentation for travel. Be prepared to contact the Cayuga Medical Center before your test and provide information including your passport number, full legal name, and date of birth so that they can email you the results. Cayuga Medical Center continues to provide testing and travel documents. See their FAQ that contains specific instructions for pre-travel testing. PCR and antigen tests are usually available locally at Walgreens, CVS, Walmart and WellNow Urgent Care. Many airports also have on-site testing. Here are a few examples (click on the airport identifier for more information): JFK, LGA, EWR, PHL, IAD, DCA. For your return trip to the U.S., you will need to get a COVID-19 test (regardless of vaccination status or citizenship) no more than one day before you travel by air into the U.S. Ensure that you know where to get this done at your destination abroad and be prepared for a cost. Notify your bank and credit card companies. Let them know you are traveling by putting a “travel notification” on your accounts. If you don’t, they may assume international charges are fraudulent and freeze use of your card. Cornell Travel Registry Pandemic Travel Advice Visas and Passports Prepare to Stay Safe and Healthy Consider your health needs. This health self-assessment is a guide for thinking about your health needs in relation to your travel plans. You can use what you learn to facilitate a discussion with your physician. Also consider visiting Travel Services at Cornell Health. Find out how COVID-19 is impacting your destination. Research your destination. Cornell's ISOS online portal is an excellent source of destination-specific information. You’ll find out above local customs, health concerns in your destination, current travel restrictions and entrance bans, and more. Complete a predeparture orientation. We offer two short online predeparture orientations: one to help student travelers responsibly manage their health and safety abroad, and another to guide off-campus activity leaders through their responsibilities and Cornell's expectations of their role. Register your travel with the nearest embassy. The Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) is a free service for U.S. citizens and nationals traveling and living abroad. Enrollment allows the nearest embassy to send you information about safety conditions in your destination and contact you in an emergency. Non-U.S. citizens should contact their embassy to inquire about similar services. Learn about Your Destination Pack appropriately. Weather patterns, cultural norms, and even how often you’ll be able to wash your clothes all impact how you should pack. Don’t wait until the last minute—and remember, if it’s really important you can likely buy it at your destination. Learn a few words in the local language. Making an effort to speak the language can go a long way toward showing people you respect them and understand you're a guest in their country. If you don’t speak the language, try learning "May I speak English?" and know the difference between "excuse me," "pardon me," and "I’m sorry." Detailed Checklists Consult these checklists for student travelers, leaders of Cornell-sponsored trips, and faculty and staff traveling on Cornell business to discover planning essentials for a safer international travel experience. Student Travelers State Department information Activity Leaders Health, safety, and team-building Faculty and Staff Cornell business travel essentials (use NetID) Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance