Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home Frequently Asked Questions Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Great Wall of China Slide 2: Flamingos Africa Slide 3: Iceland Previous Next Frequently Asked Questions Expand all Collapse all Policy I am a student going abroad on Columbia Travel, what do I need to do? Student international travel has three policies, the International Travel Planning Policy, the current CU International Travel Restrictions, and the Undergraduate International Travel Policy. Students should reference these policies, including the Pre-Departure Requirements, and use this website to navigate travel planning. International Travel Planning Policy Spring 2022 International Travel Restrictions Undergraduate International Travel Policy Plan a Trip I am a faculty/staff member leading students abroad, what do I need to do? Officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, and postdoctoral fellows/scholars traveling with students are required to register international Columbia Travel. For other travel to Medium-, High-, and Extreme-risk locations, they are strongly encouraged to have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS. They must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all Pre-Departure Travel Requirements. If you are running a global program or course that is open to undergraduate students, please see the Travel Program section of the Undergraduate International Travel Policy and reach out to [email protected]. I am traveling to my home country for Columbia Travel, do these policies apply to me? If you are traveling to your home country for Columbia related business (research, conferences, meetings, etc.), then yes, the International Travel Planning Policy, International Travel Restrictions and/or Undergraduate International Travel Policy applies to you. If you are traveling to your home country, strictly for personal/leisure travel, these policies do not apply. What is considered international travel? International travel is any location outside of the 50 United States, including Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories. Expand all Collapse all Trip Registration I am an Officer of Instruction/Officer of Research/Officer of the Libraries/Postdoctoral Fellow/Scholar or Alumni traveling internationally. Am I required to register my trip with International SOS? Yes, you are required to register your international Columbia-related travel. Registering in ISOS MyTrips helps our office contact you in the event of an emergency, such as political uprisings and natural disasters. If you are traveling with students, see 'Policy' above. Do I have to register or request authorization for personal travel? No, the University does not govern personal travel. You can purchase International SOS coverage for personal travel at a discount. Please see the ISOS website for more information. If you are traveling to your home country for research, meetings, or anything related to your work or academics at Columbia University, you must comply with the International Travel Planning Policy, International Travel Restrictions or the Undergraduate International Travel Policy. How do I register my Columbia Travel? Please visit the ISOS MyTrips page for trip registration. Expand all Collapse all Visa & Travel Documents The country I am visiting on my CU-related international travel requires a ‘certificate of coverage’ letter. What is this and where can I receive one? The 'certificate of coverage' letter is sometimes required for visa applications and refers to the university's coverage for medical evacuation, repatriation, and repatriation of mortal remains to home country or home campus from any other overseas country for a certain amount for Columbia University travelers going abroad on behalf of the University. Send an email to [email protected] with the following information: Name of traveler(s) Date of birth Citizenship Travel Destination(s) Travel Dates Purpose of Travel Purpose for this Certification of Coverage Letter Please note these letters can only be issued for Columbia-related international travel. What visa do I need to get for my Columbia Travel? Columbia University does not have an outbound immigration unit, but please see the following links for information. For International Students and Scholars, please see the Visas and Travel EmbassyPages.com lists the foreign consulates in New York City You can dial ‘311’ to find a Consulate (NYC Contact a Consulate) Columbia's Travel Management Company, World Travel (WTI) has a vendor, VisaHQ, for Visa and Passport Services. Travelers will need to enter their nationality, resident status and purpose of the trip in the user interface and there is no cost to check what documents may be required. The only time a cost is incurred is when the traveler utilizes the services of VisaHQ to process a visa, passport or any other services. For more information, please visit Columbia Travel & Expense. I am an International Student or Scholar. What additional travel documents do I need? You will need to contact the Columbia International Students and Scholars Office. You can also contact their office regarding your inbound visa status. I am a student with an F-1 or J-1 and need a travel signature. A travel signature is relevant only to F-1 students or J-1 students (and their dependents) who are planning to travel abroad and return to the U.S. in F or J status. You must have an unexpired travel signature on the date you re-enter the U.S. Travel Signatures and Passport Renewal (F and J Students) Expand all Collapse all Finance & Global Support I have a Columbia Corporate Card and plan on using it on my international travel. What do I need to do before I leave? Our office does not administer the Corporate Card program. Please contact Columbia Finance. How do I receive reimbursement for my travel or business expenses? Please visit the Travel and Business Expense (TBER) Information page. Who do I contact for my in-country business needs? Questions about hiring people, making payments, conference planning, equipment, etc. while abroad are best handled by Global Support. Please send questions to [email protected] [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close