Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home A Discussion on Chinese Classics with Professor Wei SHANG, Professor Lihua YANG, and Professor Chunying LI Events Past Event A Discussion on Chinese Classics with Professor Wei SHANG, Professor Lihua YANG, and Professor Chunying LI Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 16, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On July 16, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, in collaboration with Moveable Type and CITIC Press, invites you to a discussion on Chinese classics featuring Wei SHANG, Du Family Professor of Chinese Culture at Columbia University, and Lihua YANG, Professor of Philosophy at Peking University. Chunying LI, Associate Professor at the International Confucian Academy of China University of Political Science and Law, will moderate the panel discussion. This event is part of the 2019 Columbia Beijing Summer East Asian Series, in celebration of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute's 70th anniversary, and it is also the second event of the Gei Hai Zi Series Fifth Anniversary Series. The panel will focus on the essence and wisdom of Chinese classic literature and its modern significance. Panelists Wei SHANG Professor Wei SHANG is the Du Family Professor of Chinese Culture at the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures at Columbia University. He specializes in pre-modern Chinese literature and culture, especially fiction and drama of the Ming and Qing dynasties. His research interests also include print culture, book history, and intellectual history of the same era. From 1978 to 1988, Professor Shang received his B.A. and M.A. from Peking University. From 1988 to 1995, he received his PhD from Harvard University. He has joined the Columbia faculty since 1997. His book Rulin waishi and Cultural Transformation in Late Imperial China (Harvard University Press, 2003) addresses the role of ritual and fiction in shaping the intellectual and cultural changes of the eighteenth century. He is also the author of Chapter 4 of The Cambridge History of Chinese Literature II: "The Literati Era and Its Demise (1723-1840)." Lihua YANG Lihua YANG is a professor of philosophy, Ph.D. supervisor, and associate dean at the Graduate School of Peking University. Yang's research interests mainly include the history of Chinese philosophy, Confucianism, and Taoism. In recent years, Yang has mainly focused on Song-Ming philosophy and Wei-Jin philosophy. Yang has published several monographs, i.e. Fifteen Lectures on Chinese Philosophy(Peking University Press, 2019), Fifteen Lectures on Song-Ming Neo-Confucianism (Peking University Press, 2015), A History of Chinese Confucianism (the Song-Yuan part, Peking University Press, 2011), On Guo Xiang's Commentary of Zhuangzi (Peking University Press, 2010), Qiben & Shenhua: Commentary on Zhang Zai's Philosophy (Peking University Press, 2008), and The Innominate Joint - The Development of Taoist Methods of Immortality Through Concepts of Internal Alchemy (Peking University Press, 2002). He has translated five books, including On Wang Bi's Commentary of Laozi, The Discourse of Race in Modern China, The Collected Works on History of Thought in Sung Dynasty, The Life and Thought of Chang Hsüeh-ch'eng, and The Clash of Empires: The Invention of China in Modern World Making, with more than forty academic publications. Moderator Chunying LI Chunying LI is an associate professor and master supervisor at the International Confucian Academy of China Univerisity of Political Science and Law. She received her PhD in philosophy at Peking University. Her research focuses on the history of Confucianism and Neo-Confucianism. Agenda 6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Registration 7:00 p.m. - 7:10 p.m. Opening 7:10 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Lecture by Professor Wei SHANG 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Panel Discussion 8:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Q&A Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close