Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Thematic Discussion Series: Combating Anti-Asian Hate and Violence Events Past Event Thematic Discussion Series: Combating Anti-Asian Hate and Violence Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 16, 2021 8:30 PM - 10:00 PM Online Time: 8:30 - 10:00 PM (Beijing) | 8:30 - 10:00 AM (New York) The rise in anti-Asian hate crimes has again underscored the long-standing anxiety and concern regarding racism and xenophobia. In response to the growing call to action to support anti-racism movement and to foster an inclusive community, this thematic discussion series, titled 'Stand in Solidarity: Combating Anti-Asian Racism and Xenophobia', aims to offer support especially to Columbia University’s Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander community during this challenging time. The Series will address the rising violence against Asians and Asian Americans in the U.S., examining the ongoing history of race discrimination that has been employed to distract and divide our communities to protect systematic inequality. In the session on April 16, Professor Qin Gao of Columbia University School of Social Work will present findings in her team's recent survey, which includes quantitative and qualitative evidence, conducted among over 400 Chinese Americans in New York City. Leading scholars and experts will also join the panel discussion to share insights and explore possible course of actions against anti-Asian crime. Featuring remarks and discussion with: Joseph Defraine Greenwell currently serves as Vice President for Student Affairs at Columbia University, previously serving in leadership roles at University of California, Berkeley, San Francisco State, Stanford, and Colgate University. Greenwell is an innovative, consensus building, and strategic student affairs expert with over 23 years of experience. He earned his Ed.D. and M.Ed. from the Peabody College at Vanderbilt University and a bachelor’s degree in music and psychology from Vanderbilt University. Qin Gao is Professor of Social Policy and Social Work at Columbia University School of Social Work and Director of Columbia University’s China Center for Social Policy. She is a faculty affiliate of the Columbia Population Research Center and the Weatherhead East Asian Institute and a member of the Faculty Steering Committee for the Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. She is also an Academic Board Member of the China Institute for Income Distribution at Beijing Normal University and a Public Intellectual Fellow of the National Committee on United States-China Relations. Dr. Gao's research focuses on the Chinese welfare state in transition; welfare, work, and poverty in China; social protection for rural-to-urban migrants in China and Asian American immigrants; and cross-national comparative social policies and programs. Dr. Gao's work has been supported by multiple national and international funding sources such as the National Natural Science Foundation of China, National Social Science Fund of China, UNICEF, and the World Bank. Tiffany J. Huang (Twitter: @tiffjhuang) is a PhD candidate in the Department of Sociology at Columbia University. Her research focuses on race and immigration, examining the outcomes and racialization of immigrants and the second generation, as well as intergroup relations. Her dissertation examines how people navigate identity and diversity in the college application process. Her work has appeared, or is forthcoming, in the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences, The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, and Ethnic and Racial Studies. Prior to undertaking doctoral studies, Huang worked at the National Association of County and City Health Officials, and as a Public Health Associate Program fellow at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She holds a Master’s of Public Health from the University of Michigan School of Public Health, and a Bachelor of Arts from the University of California at Berkeley. Van C. Tran is an immigration scholar and urban sociologist who studies the integration of immigrants and their children, ethnic and racial categories, diversity and intergroup relations, neighborhood gentrification, and urban poverty and social inequality. He has a Ph.D. in Sociology and Social Policy from Harvard University. Dr. Tran’s research employs a multidisciplinary, multimethod approach to the dual study of immigrant and urban life, with a focus on how immigration has transformed local communities across the country. His research and teaching are deeply connected to the diversity, history, and vibrancy of New York City. As a social scientist, he views the city as a social laboratory for original research and innovative teaching, both of which hold the potential to substantively inform urban social policy. Since 2019, Dr. Tran has helped mobilize research on critical issues facing New York City as the deputy director for The Graduate Center’s Center for Urban Research. Malo Hutson is an Associate Professor in Urban Planning at Columbia GSAPP and Director of the school’s Urban Community and Health Equity Lab. Dr. Hutson is a widely-recognized scholar, teacher, and practitioner whose research at the intersection of urban planning and health inequities is of profound relevance in the planning of today’s cities across the United States, and around the world. Dr. Hutson’s specific focus is on community development and urban equity, racial and ethnic inequalities and urban policy, as well as the built environment and health. Dr. Hutson has worked nationally and internationally on community-centered projects that improve the economic, environmental, political, and social well-being of urban residents. Dr. Hutson received his Ph.D. in Urban and Regional Planning from the School of Architecture and Planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and earned both his Bachelor of Arts in Sociology and Master of City Planning degrees from the University of California at Berkeley. Weiping Wu is Professor of Urban Planning at Columbia GSAPP and Director of the M.S. Urban Planning program. She also is on the faculty of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute and Columbia Population Research Center. Trained in architecture and urban planning, Prof. Wu has focused her research and teaching on understanding urban dynamics in developing countries in general and China in particular. She is an internationally acclaimed urban and planning scholar working on global urbanization with a specific expertise in issues of migration, housing, and infrastructure of Chinese cities. Her research has been supported by the National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Education, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, and World Bank. She is the immediate past President of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning and a board member of the Planning Accreditation Board. At GSAPP, she is working with colleagues on the Anti-Racism Task Force to develop curricular and programming initiatives to commit the school to an explicitly and systematically anti-racist path. Reminders Event language: English If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close