Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Sixth Women Leadership Panel Events Past Event The Sixth Women Leadership Panel Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 15, 2018 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On September 15, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will host the Sixth Women Leadership Panel with four experienced female professionals with international work experience to share their stories and provide insights in their respective areas including cross border transaction, antitrust law and international trade, real estate equity investments, investor relationship management, etc. This is also the Center's third women leadership panel focusing on financial industry. Panelists Rachel Xu LAW '15 Ms. Rachel Xu received her LL.B. Degree at Tsinghua University. Post graduation she joined an international law firm. After practice law for a few years, she pursued her LL.M. degree at Columbia Law School. Rachel Xu later joined the antitrust law practice in Hogan Lovells Washington D.C. Office and returned to China office in 2016. Rachel Chu Ms. Rachel Chu is now a senior analyst at Hitone Capital, a boutique real estate investing firm. Rachel holds MS in labor and urban studies from the University of Pennsylvania with Dean's Merit Award. Prior to joining Hitone, she worked at United Nations DPKO, Lauder Institute and Harvest Fund. Rachel focuses primarily on real estate equity investments, hotel and rental apartments industry. She used to be member of AMAC REITs Act Committee. Janet Li Ms. Janet Li, currently works for ICBC Headquarter and has participated in ICBC's overseas M&As, investor relationship management, and real estate financial services. She formerly served as one of the spokespersons for CICC. Janet graduated from University of Oxford, University of Hong Kong, with scholarship from China Oxford Committee. Jingmin Wu SEAS '12 Ms. Jingmin Wu graduated from Columbia University with a master degree from Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. After working for famous financial institutes including Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, Ernst & Young, Jingmin moved back to China and joined a large government owned insurance corporation. Now she is in charge of the overseas investment group covering multiple industries including Senior Living, Healthcare, Fintech and etc. Moderator Mudi Liang TC '15 Ms. Mudi Liang graduated from Columbia University with a master degree in Economics and Education, with full scholarship from China Scholarship Committee, and formerly worked for World Bank and Colorado State Government. She now conducts researches in China Securities Regulation Committee, with frontier regulation experience in Shanghai Stock Exchange. Ms. Liang advises big data projects in Reg-tech platforms, covering user profiling and US-China financial regulation policy comparative study. Her policy recommendations has been directly reported to senior officials in central government. Special Notice The event will be conducted in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. The registration will start 30 minutes before the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please leave us a message below or email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close