Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home How to Improve Women's Heart Health: Lessons from the U.S. and China Events Past Event How to Improve Women's Heart Health: Lessons from the U.S. and China Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo February 23, 2022 9:00 PM - 10:00 PM Online *By clicking “Register Here”, you are deemed to consent to all conditions and terms of the Consent Note for Personal Information Processing, including the cross-border transfer of your personal information as described in Article II.3 of the consent note. If you do not agree to all the conditions and terms hereof, please do not click. Time: February 23, 9:00PM - 10:00PM (Beijing) | 8:00AM - 9:00AM (New York) For women worldwide, cardiovascular disease is a major and underrecognized cause of morbidity and mortality. In celebration of American Heart Month, the Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and the Women Creating Change initiative of the Center for the Study of Social Difference at Columbia University invite you to join us on February 23rd for a webinar moderated by Dr. Sonia Tolani, Co-Director of the Columbia Women's Heart Center. Featured panelists and speakers are Columbia University Medical Center's Esther Aboodi Associate Professor of Medicine in Cardiology, Dr. Elaine Wan, Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital Department of Cardiology's Chief Physician, Dr. He Rong, and Attending Physician, Dr. Ying Xie, and Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University's Director of Health Management Center, Dr. Chu Xi. Together they will discuss the barriers to equitable cardiovascular care that women face across the globe. They will also explore initiatives that can help shine a spotlight on women's heart health and improve access to primary and secondary preventative care. We look forward to an engaging and important conversation and hope you will join us. Speakers Dr. Elaine Wan is the Esther Aboodi Associate Professor of Medicine in Cardiology and Cardiac Electrophysiology and Director of Electrophysiology Research overseeing all electrophysiology trials at Columbia University Medical Center, College of Physicians and Surgeons. She is trained in Internal Medicine, Clinical Cardiology and is an invasive cardiac electrophysiologist. She performs implantation of cardiac devices, including pacemaker and defibrillators, as well as ablation of arrhythmias. Dr. Wan is the recipient of several competitive research grants, including NIH NHLBI K08 Mentored Career Development Award, NIH NHLBI R03 Small Grant Program, and NIH NHLBI R01 to study the use of 3D mitochondrial dysfunction imaging in cardiac arrhythmias. She is also a recipient of the American Heart Association Scientist Development Grant, grant support from the Foundation of Gender Specific Medicine, Columbia University Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Scholars Program, and Columbia University Provost's Grants Program for Junior Faculty who Contribute to the Diversity Goals of the University. Dr. Wan is vice co-chair of the Heart Rhythm Society Digital Health Committee and a member of the American Heart Association Committee on Electrocardiography and Arrhythmias. She has published over 77 manuscripts in high-impact journals such as Nature Medicine, Science Translational Medicine, Circulation Research, Journal of Clinical Investigation, and Journal of American College of Cardiology. Dr. Ying Xie is an Attending Physician in the Department of Cardiology at Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital. Dr. Xie is also a member of the National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases - Chinese Alliance for The Prevention and Treatment of Geriatric Cardiovascular Diseases Committee and the Royal College of Physicians of the U.K. She holds a M.D. at Peking University Health Science Center. Dr. Rong He is an Associate Professor and Chief Physician at Department of Cardiology of Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital. Dr. He specializes in dealing with common cardiovascular diseases and complex and critical diseases, focusing on arrhythmia, cardiac pacemaker implantation, and programmed follow-up. She also specializes in diagnosing and treating heart failure, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. Dr. He focuses on the clinical diagnosis, treatment, and pathogenesis of arrhythmias like atrial fibrillation. She undertook extensive studies on clinical diagnosis, treatment, and pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation and was responsible for long-term follow-up and research of patients with atrial fibrillation. Dr. He has participated in a number of projects funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China, the Beijing Municipal Education Commission, and the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission. She was a visiting scholar at Texas Heart Institute, USA, researching the clinical diagnosis and treatment of patients with arrhythmia and the mechanism of atrial electrical remodeling and structural remodeling. Dr. He holds a M.D. and a Postdoctoral Fellow in Cardiac Electrophysiology. Dr. Chu Xi is the Chief Physician, Master Supervisor, and Director of Health Management Center of Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University. Dr. Chu is also a standing member of the Health Management Branch of the Chinese Medical Association. She studied at Duke University and the University of Iowa as a visiting scholar before. Dr. Chu specializes in diagnosing and treating coronary heart disease, hypertension, heart failure, arrhythmia, cardiomyopathy, valvular disease, and other diseases. She especially has rich experience in common acute and severe diseases and complications of heart disease in geriatric cardiology. Dr. Chu is actively engaged in clinical and mechanism research of atherosclerosis and chronic disease health management. She has published more than 30 SCI papers and core journal papers, undertaken more than ten national and provincial scientific research projects, and written four academic monographs. Dr. Chu has a M.D. in Cardiology. Moderator Dr. Sonia Tolani is the Co-Director of the Women’s Heart Center at Columbia University and a part of the Hypertension Center. Dr. Tolani received her medical degree with honors from the New York University School of Medicine. She completed her internship, medical residency, and her fellowship in cardiovascular medicine at Columbia University Irving Medical Center in New York City. As part of her cardiology fellowship, Dr. Tolani spent several years studying the interplay of cholesterol and inflammation and how this interaction impacts atherosclerosis. In addition to being a full-time clinician, she frequently appears in local and national media as an expert on preventative cardiology and women’s health. She also actively donates her time to community outreach programs aimed at educating women on the signs and symptoms of cardiovascular disease. Dr. Tolani's areas of expertise include consultative cardiology, preventative medicine, and women's health. Reminders This event will be conducted in English. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close