Navigation Skip to Content A Español en-us español-España Navigation The Bank COLUMNA_1 Corporate governance Bank functions Our people History Strategic planning External evaluations Relaciones Internacionales Relationship with citizenry Heritage Library COLUMNA_2 Transparency Active transparency Access to information Lobby law Statement of interests and net worth Board´s Agenda Frequently Asked Questions Canal de Denuncias para Oferentes y Proveedores COLUMNA_3 Works with us Open positions Tenders and purchase Licitaciones y cotizaciones públicas Portal de compras Portal de proveedores Portal de pago Repositorio Digital Visit the website of the Numismatic Museum www.museobancocentral.cl Area COLUMNA_1 Monetary Policy Monetary Policy Report Monetary Policy Meeting (RPM) Transcripts of Monetary Policy Meetings Financial Policy Financial Stability Report Financial Policy Meeting (RPF) Prudential Regulation Exchange Regulation COLUMNA_2 Financial Markets BCCh Operations Fiscal Agency Operations International Reserve Management Comité de Mercados Nacionales Portal Cartera Prendada FCIC Statistics Statistics Database Calendario estadístico Reportes al BCCh FAQ Statistics COLUMNA_3 Regulation Compendium of Financial Regulation Compendium of International Exchange Regulations and its Manual Compendium of Monetary and Financial Regulations and its Manual Consultas públicas Technology Observatory Exploración de Monedas Digitales de Banco Central COLUMNA_4 Payment System Economic Surveys Research Banknotes and coins News and Publications COLUMNA_1 Press Press Releases of RPM Comunicados RPF Presentations Press releases Notices Preguntas y respuestas Publications Policy Research Statistics Central Bank of Chile COLUMNA_2 Events Conferences Courses Workshops Seminars Other events COLUMNA_3 Normative Publications Board Agreements Circular Letters Circulars Board Minutes Official Transcripts Visit the website of the Numismatic Museum www.museobancocentral.cl Contact Preguntas Frecuentes Home April 2022’s monthly index of economic activity, Imacec Banco Central designa a Rosario Celedón Förster como Gerente de la División de Política Financiera Informe de Estabilidad Financiera Primer Semestre 2022 Previous Next Our mission is to keep inflation under control and contribute to the stability of the financial system, thus playing a part in the country’s development and the progress of its inhabitants. June 1, 2022 UF $32.694,2 UTM (JUN) $57.557,0 Dollar Observed $824,35 Euro $885,54 Inflation & TPM CPI (APR) (Var.%) 1,4 Monthly 10,5 Annually CPI-EFE (APR) (Var.%) 1,1 Monthly 8,3 Annually MPR(%) 8,25% > Exceptional Measures Adopted by the Central Bank of Chile > Exploración de Monedas Digitales de Banco Central (MDBC) . News Publications Events Q&A Work with us Monetary unit converter to Chilean pesos Referential use only Select Indicator EURO UF DÓLAR UTM Enter valid amount (decimal, sign ",") For the conversions the following should be considered: US Dollar: Observed Dollar Euro: Nominal exchange rate UF: Unit of account UTM: Source: Chilean Internal Revenue Service (SII) . . STATISTICS DATABASE Central Bank of Chile . Monetary Policy Financial Policy Financial Markets Statistics Research Regulation . . Transparency Requests for access to information, lobby law, state of interests and net worth and good practices. “Central en tu Vida” Program In this website you will find all the activities, educational resources and learning tools of the financial education program promoted by the Central Bank of Chile. Numismatic Museum This website provides information about the numismatic collection of the Central Bank of Chile and access to the virtual tour. Digital Repository The Central Bank of Chile makes the historical minutes of its board of directors and its publications available to the public. Banknotes and Coins This website you can learn more about the current banknotes and coins of Chile. BCCh Library This website provides information about its online and onsite resources available to the public, as well as other information services. Previous Next . . Central en tu Vida Banknotes and coins Numismatic Museum Statistics Database Library Digital Repository Glossary of economic terms Work with us Active Transparency Access to information Lobby Law Constitutional Organic Law National Strategy ALA/CFT Contact Educational visits Suscripción Terms of use Site map Live broadcast Virtual tour Agustinas 1180, Santiago, Chile. Notice The content of this page is only found in Spanish OK