Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Studio-X Presentations at SALT Beyoğlu & Summer Design Workshop Istanbul Studio-X Presentations at SALT Beyoğlu & Summer Design Workshop July 18, 2013 Studio X Presentations at SALT Beyoglu & Summer Design Workshop Architect Rajeev Thakker will present Columbia University’s Studio-X project in Mumbai, which focuses on creating a collaborative platform for architects, artists, planners, developers, activists to engage in research, exhibitions, debates and various other processes with regard to the future of cities. Architects Jennifer Broutin Farah and Kamal Farah will present their current research and discuss strategies for cities as adaptive technologies. The event is part of a week-long design workshop organized with Studio-X Istanbul for a second year in a row, comprising architecture students from Columbia as well as a number of Istanbul-based universities. Together they will be exploring facets of Istanbul’s urbanization process through lectures with local experts and activists as well as through studio-based work. Rajeev Thakker Rajeev Thakker received a B.Arch. from Syracuse University and an M.S. in advanced architectural design from Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. He has served as the director of Studio-X Mumbai since 2010. He worked for several offices including SOM and the Arnell Group in New York on conceptual and architectural projects. Thakker moved to Mumbai in 2000, where he has been actively engaged at several institutions including KRVIA, NMIMS and Raffles. In 2003, he started his own practice a-RT, which provides consultancy and design services for architectural and interior projects, as well as taking a keen interest in documenting the city and various spatial conditions through cartographic, architectural and other creative processes. These processes are conceived and initiated to redefine and discover novel methods of viewing the relationship between subject and object, in this case, the city of Mumbai and himself. Jennifer Broutin Farah Jennifer Broutin Farah received a professional B.Arch. degree from the University of Miami, and an M.S. in advanced architectural design from Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. Farah is a Ph.D. candidate in MIT's Media Lab’s Changing Places group. Her expertise includes adaptive infrastructure, energy innovation, food systems, and human-centered design in constructed environments. She has worked with the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Arquitectonica Intl., and has taught at Columbia University and Pratt Institute. A recipient of multiple awards, she has been featured on Discovery Science and in documentaries for GOOD Magazine and at Eyebeam Art & Technology Center (where she was an artist in residence), in addition to contributing to Wired Magazine and the Financial Times, among others. Kamal Farah Kamal Farah received a B.Arch. degree from the University of Miami and an M.S. in architecture and urban design from Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, where he is also a faculty member. Farah is a research assistant in the Changing Places group at the MIT Media Lab, where he is developing future urban systems, investigating the impact of emergent technologies and virtual networks on physical space. Farah has advised organizations including IBM and the Ford Motor Company and led projects combining design, strategy and management for multinational clients at SOM and Ateliers Jean Nouvel. Tags Istanbul Public News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Architect Rajeev Thakker will present Columbia University’s Studio-X project in Mumbai, which focuses on creating a collaborative platform for architects, artists, planners, developers, activists to engage in research, exhibitions, debates and various other processes with regard to the future of cities. Architects Jennifer Broutin Farah and Kamal Farah will present their current research and discuss strategies for cities as adaptive technologies. The event is part of a week-long design workshop organized with Studio-X Istanbul for a second year in a row, comprising architecture students from Columbia as well as a number of Istanbul-based universities. Together they will be exploring facets of Istanbul’s urbanization process through lectures with local experts and activists as well as through studio-based work. Rajeev Thakker Rajeev Thakker received a B.Arch. from Syracuse University and an M.S. in advanced architectural design from Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. He has served as the director of Studio-X Mumbai since 2010. He worked for several offices including SOM and the Arnell Group in New York on conceptual and architectural projects. Thakker moved to Mumbai in 2000, where he has been actively engaged at several institutions including KRVIA, NMIMS and Raffles. In 2003, he started his own practice a-RT, which provides consultancy and design services for architectural and interior projects, as well as taking a keen interest in documenting the city and various spatial conditions through cartographic, architectural and other creative processes. These processes are conceived and initiated to redefine and discover novel methods of viewing the relationship between subject and object, in this case, the city of Mumbai and himself. Jennifer Broutin Farah Jennifer Broutin Farah received a professional B.Arch. degree from the University of Miami, and an M.S. in advanced architectural design from Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. Farah is a Ph.D. candidate in MIT's Media Lab’s Changing Places group. Her expertise includes adaptive infrastructure, energy innovation, food systems, and human-centered design in constructed environments. She has worked with the Metropolitan Museum of Art and Arquitectonica Intl., and has taught at Columbia University and Pratt Institute. A recipient of multiple awards, she has been featured on Discovery Science and in documentaries for GOOD Magazine and at Eyebeam Art & Technology Center (where she was an artist in residence), in addition to contributing to Wired Magazine and the Financial Times, among others. Kamal Farah Kamal Farah received a B.Arch. degree from the University of Miami and an M.S. in architecture and urban design from Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, where he is also a faculty member. Farah is a research assistant in the Changing Places group at the MIT Media Lab, where he is developing future urban systems, investigating the impact of emergent technologies and virtual networks on physical space. Farah has advised organizations including IBM and the Ford Motor Company and led projects combining design, strategy and management for multinational clients at SOM and Ateliers Jean Nouvel. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close