Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to main content Open menu Utility Menu Students Explore Abroad Choose Texas Global Learning On Campus Study English Immigration Advising Faculty & Staff Global Engagement Opportunities Department and Staff Resources International Scholars Global Community Alumni and Giving Global Programs and Innovation International Education Week Mexico Global Gateway Passport Services Request a Delegation Visit About About Texas Global Senior Vice Provost Welcome Global Engagement & Strategy Reports and Statistics Global Rankings Leadership & Staff Careers Open add menu Global Offices Texas Global partners with faculty, departments, colleges and schools across the university to advance UT Austin’s mission and enhance its international reputation. Global Connections on Campus The depth and scope of UT’s global academics are evident in the vast network of centers, programs and organizations dedicated to international scholarship, research, creative activity and teaching. Global Research and Creative Activity UT faculty engage in research and creative activities on every continent, advancing UT Austin’s academic mission and global impact. Newsroom Events Contact Us Alumni and Giving Donate Open Search form Main navigation ISSS ISSS ISSS Immigration Information Immigration Information F-1 Students J-1 Exchange Visitors H-1B Faculty and Employees Other Immigration Statuses Advising and Services Advising and Services Drop-In Services Make an Appointment Financial Aid and Financial Services Student Exchange Sponsored Student Services Insurance Tax Information myIO Request Services Life at UT Life at UT New Student & Scholar Resources Living in Austin Pre-Arrival Checklist Applying for SSNs Get Involved International Student Orientation ISSS Events ISSS Blog Department Resources Department Resources Hiring International Employees Information for Graduate Coordinators Training and Workshops myIO for Departments UT Policy on Hiring Foreign Nationals About ISSS About ISSS Staff Directory Emergency Information Stay Informed ISSS Fees Contact ISSS You are here Home International Student and Scholar Services About ISSS Stay Informed Stay Informed COVID-19 and Immigration Updates Texas Global's International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) is providng virtual advising support and facilitating immigration requests through myIO. For information about university operations, please visit the Protect Texas Together website. Electronic Signatures on Forms I-20 Now Permanently Accepted On Nov. 1, 2021, the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) published guidance formally confirming that electronically signed and issued I-20s will be acceptable moving forward. Initially, the permission to sign and issue I-20s electronically to F-1 students and their dependents was temporary due to COVID-19. Because of the success of electronic delivery methods, SEVP has decided to formally adopt the use of electronic signatures and I-20 issuance on a permanent basis. This is a positive development for F-1 students and their dependents who can continue to receive I-20s by email. SEVP has coordinated with other government agencies to ensure that electronically issued and signed I-20s (printed and physically signed by the student) will be acceptable for visa interviews, entry into the U.S., or any other situation where presenting an I-20 is required. ISSS Services for Students ISSS has been receiving a high volume of emails and calls for requests of student immigration documents and advising support. We understand that many of you are concerned about upcoming immigration deadlines. See ISSS Processing Times to view specific information about CPT, STEM OPT, Initial I-20s, and general information about email inquiries. Jump to Section COVID-19 Vaccination Required to Enter U.S. Travel FAQs FAQs for New International Students FAQs for Enrolled International Students FAQs for Students on OPT FAQs for International Scholars, Faculty, and Staff FAQs for Departments Presidential Proclamations DHS Proposed Rule Regarding Duration of Status General Information General Support Information ISSS Processing Times Proof of COVID-19 Vaccination Required to Enter U.S. Beginning Nov. 8, 2021, all passengers entering the United States by air must show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 to board their flight into the country. The list of approved vaccines, the types of acceptable proof, and the definition of “fully vaccinated” can be found on the CDC website. Additionally, effective Jan. 22, 2022, non-U.S. citizens or permanent residents entering the United States through land ports of entry and ferry terminals at the U.S.-Mexico and U.S.-Canada borders must be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 and provide related proof of vaccination. These restrictions apply for both essential and non-essential travel. Proof of Negative COVID-19 Test Additionally, all passengers entering the U.S. by air must provide a negative COVID-19 test before boarding their flight, as required by the CDC. Passengers are required to get a test within one day of their departure. Written documentation of the negative test result must be provided to the airline before boarding, or the airline will not allow you to board. If you have previously been infected with COVID-19, but are no longer contagious, you can provide documentation of your recovery in place of a negative test result. Please review the CDC website for specific details. Upon arrival to the U.S., the CDC recommends that passengers get tested again 3-5 days after arrival and stay home for at least one week. There is not a COVID-19 testing requirement for travelers entering the United States at land border ports of entry. Back to Top ↑ Travel FAQs Do I need to be vaccinated against COVID-19 to enter the U.S.? Yes. Effective Nov. 8, 2021, all passengers entering the United States by air must show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 to board their flight into the country. The list of approved vaccines, the types of acceptable proof, and the definition of “fully vaccinated” can be found on the CDC website. Additionally, effective Jan. 22, 2022, non-U.S. citizens or permanent residents entering the United States through land ports of entry and ferry terminals at the U.S.-Mexico and U.S.-Canada borders must be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 and provide related proof of vaccination. These restrictions apply for both essential and non-essential travel. Do I need a negative COVID-19 test to enter the U.S.? All air passengers entering the U.S. are required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test result taken no more than one day before boarding their flight. Visit the CDC website for more information. There is not a COVID-19 testing requirement for travelers entering the United States at land border ports of entry. Are there any current restrictions on travel to the U.S.? COVID-19 Vaccination and Test Requirements Effective Nov. 8, 2021, all travelers entering the U.S. must show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Additionally, all travelers must obtain a negative COVID-19 test no more than one day prior to their flight. Additionally, effective Jan. 22, 2022, non-U.S. citizens or permanent residents entering the United States through land ports of entry and ferry terminals at the U.S.-Mexico and U.S.-Canada borders must be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 and provide related proof of vaccination. These restrictions apply for both essential and non-essential travel. The current global situation is fluid. It is difficult to predict whether further restrictions will be put in place by the U.S. government for travelers, whether current restrictions will be removed, or if availability of international flights will be a concern. We recommend that you continue to check the travel and visa restrictions that may be in place at the time you are planning to travel to the U.S. You should also monitor the travel updates by the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) as well as resources from your own country's governmental agencies. Texas Global is carefully monitoring updates from the CDC, SEVP (Student and Exchange Visitor Program), USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services), and U.S. Department of State. We will update this website as we receive new information. If I leave the U.S. now will I be able to reenter the country at a later date? The current global situation is fluid. It is difficult to predict whether further restrictions will be put in place by the U.S. government for travelers from high-risk countries, whether current restrictions will be removed, or if international travel to the U.S. will be restricted due to the situation within the U.S. Continue to check the travel and visa restrictions that may be in place at the time you are planning to travel to the U.S. We recommend that you monitor the travel updates by the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) as well as resources from your own country’s governmental agencies. Texas Global is carefully monitoring updates from the CDC, SEVP (Student and Exchange Visitor Program), USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services), and Department of State, and will update this website as we receive new information. Can I apply for a U.S. visa? The global COVID-19 situation is dynamic and quickly changing. Please check the U.S. Department of State's visa page for announcements and updates in order to stay informed about the resumption of consular services and visa processing times. Texas Global is closely monitoring the situation and will update this page if new information becomes available. You may also wish to check the website of the U.S. embassy or consulate nearest to you for any other updates. I am a current student and need a new travel signature on my I-20/DS-2019. How do I get one? Please log into myIO and request a travel signature through F-1 Student Services > I-20 Travel Signature Request or J-1 Student Services > DS-2019 Travel Signature Request. Can I use an I-20 with an electronic signature from an international student advisor for international travel and to apply for a visa? Yes. The Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) coordinated with both the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to allow electronic issuance and signing of Forms I-20. Both agencies are in support of this action. I am currently in my home country. Will I need to self-quarantine when I return to Texas for the fall? UT Austin follows the guidance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention which offers different guidelines for vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. Please review the COVID-19 Pre-Departure and Arrival Expectations for International Travelers. These expectations were created to prioritize your health, along with the health of our campus community. Back to Top ↑ FAQs for New International Students What are UT's plans for Fall 2022? How will UT's plans affect my ability to study in the U.S.? At this time, mostly in-person classes are expected for Fall 2022. In April 2022, the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) confirmed that the current immigration guidance in response to the COVID-19 crisis will remain in effect for the 2022-2023 academic year. According to this guidance, 100% online enrollment is not permitted for the following students, who are considered “new” students for immigration purposes: Newly admitted F-1 and J-1 students entering the U.S. to begin their studies. F-1/J-1 students who have already begun their studies remotely from abroad and who are entering the U.S. for the first time. F-1/J-1 students returning to the U.S. after a gap in their studies (for example, students who took a leave of absence for one semester). All new students must enroll full-time and in at least one hybrid or in-person class. Enrolling in 100% online classes as a new student in the U.S. is a violation of your student visa status and will result in immigration problems. I began my studies at UT from outside the U.S. What should I do to prepare to enter the U.S. for my first semester? Make sure that you have an updated I-20 or DS-2019 that lists a Summer or Fall 2022 start date. If you do not have a valid F-1 or J-1 student visa, you will need to apply for one. You may enter the U.S. up to 30 days before the program start date listed on your I-20 or DS-2019. You will need the documents listed here to enter the U.S. Once you arrive, complete the Arrival Check-In in myIO immediately. I have been admitted to UT. I do not know whether I will be able to arrive at UT Austin to begin the Fall 2022 semester. What should I do? Contact your academic advisor or graduate advisor to determine if beginning classes online is an option for you. Please note you will not be able to accept UT employment while you are living abroad. You may choose to arrive in the U.S. after the first day of classes. Prior to making this decision we strongly encourage you to contact ISSS and your academic department for guidance. In order to enter the United States, you must not plan to enroll in 100% online classes. Doing this without consulting ISSS may result in immigration problems. Will I be able to travel to the U.S. to start my program if I get my visa? The current global situation is fluid. It is difficult to predict whether further restrictions will be put in place by the U.S. government for travelers, whether current restrictions will be removed, or if availability of international flights will be a concern. Continue to check the travel and visa restrictions that may be in place at the time you are planning to travel to the U.S. We recommend that you monitor the travel updates by the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) as well as resources from your own country's governmental agencies. Beginning Nov. 8, 2021, all passengers entering the United States by air must show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 to board their flight into the country. The list of approved vaccines, the types of acceptable proof, and the definition of “fully vaccinated” can be found on the CDC website. Additionally, all students flying to the U.S. must obtain a negative COVID-19 test no more than 3 days prior to their flight. Texas Global is carefully monitoring updates from the CDC, SEVP (Student and Exchange Visitor Program), USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services), and U.S. Department of State. We will update this website as we receive new information. I have been admitted to UT for Summer or Fall 2022. What if I am currently in the U.S. in F-1 or J-1 status? Please complete all required forms in myIO to request your transfer document. Avoid all non-essential international travel, as you may not be able to re-enter the U.S. due to constantly changing travel restrictions, visa issuance suspension, and the evolving health situation. I am currently in the U.S. in another immigration status (H-1B, H-4, TN, etc.). What should I do? Please complete all required forms in myIO indicating your current status and schedule an appointment with an international student advisor to discuss your options and situation. Do I need to arrive early to meet the self-quarantine requirement? UT Austin follows the guidance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention which offers different guidelines for vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. Please review the COVID-19 Pre-Departure and Arrival Expectations for International Travelers. These expectations were created to prioritize your health, along with the health of our campus community. I am a new international student who has received a fellowship. Will I still be able to receive the fellowship if I am not able to enter the U.S.? In order to receive fellowship money, a student must have a U.S. address or a U.S. bank account and an active F-1 or J-1 immigration status. Since those cannot be obtained from outside of the U.S., you will need to defer the fellowship when you are able to enter the U.S. Contact your Graduate Coordinator with a request to defer your fellowship. Back to Top ↑ FAQs for Currently Enrolled International Students How does UT's plan for Summer and Fall 2022 course instruction impact my immigration status? If you have started your UT Austin program of study but have not yet been in the U.S. in F-1/J-1 status, you are considered a “new” student for immigration purposes. If you are returning to UT Austin after a gap in your studies, you are also considered a “new” student. Please see the “FAQs for New International Students” section above. All F-1 and J-1 students must enroll full-time to maintain their status. In April 2022, the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) confirmed that the current immigration guidance in response to the COVID-19 crisis will remain in effect for the 2022-2023 academic year. According to this guidance, continuing students in active F-1 status can maintain their immigration status by enrolling in online classes or in a combination of online, hybrid, and in-person classes. I am currently outside of the U.S. and cannot return to UT in Fall 2022. Can I take all of my classes online? If you have started your UT Austin program of study but have not yet been in the U.S. in F-1/J-1 status, you are considered a “new” student for immigration purposes. If you are returning to UT Austin after a gap in your studies, you are also considered a “new” student. Please see the “FAQs for New International Students” section above. All F-1 and J-1 students must enroll full-time to maintain their status. In April 2022, the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) confirmed that the current immigration guidance in response to the COVID-19 crisis will remain in effect for the 2022-2023 academic year. According to this guidance, continuing students in active F-1 status can maintain their immigration status by enrolling in online classes or in a combination of online, hybrid, and in-person classes. Continuing students outside the U.S. with an active F-1 I-20 can enroll in online classes and maintain their valid immigration status. Do I need a new I-20 for the Fall 2022 semester? When and how will I receive it? If you currently have a valid I-20 with a travel signature on page 2 that will be no more than 12 months old on your date of re-entry into the U.S., you do not need an updated I-20. If you are traveling internationally and do not have a valid travel signature, you can request a travel signature in myIO. I have an academic appointment (TA/GRA/AI). Can I hold it while being away from campus? Employment for UT may not be conducted from abroad, regardless of your immigration status. Curricular/Optional Practical Training Concerns I've been approved for CPT, and I just found out my internship will be done virtually. Do I need to make a new CPT Request? No, you do not need to make a new CPT request for this. We recommend you email the international student advisor who approved your CPT to let them know you will be working remotely. The advisor will make a note in your records with that information. I'm applying for CPT and will be working virtually. Which address should I enter on my CPT Request? You should enter the employer's address in the employer address section of the CPT Request form. Can I file my OPT (or STEM OPT) application online USCIS recently introduced an online option to file the I-765 application for OPT/STEM OPT. CAUTION: If you choose to file your I-765 application online, you must first receive an OPT/STEM OPT I-20 from ISSS, showing an OPT/STEM OPT recommendation on page 2, before beginning the online filing process. The OPT/STEM OPT I-20 is an essential part of the application; without it, your application will be denied. What to Know about E-filing: The traditional way to file the I-765 application is by mailing your paper documents to USCIS. This method has a very high approval rate. Processing time for both mailed and e-filed applications is the same, but e-filed applications will reach USCIS sooner. The last step of filing online is making the payment to USCIS; once you do that, your application will be submitted. See the USCIS e-filing website for more information. E-filing Advantages Unlike the paper form, the e-form will require you to complete all required fields and pay the correct fee amount. This could mean a reduced risk of application rejection due to incomplete information or incorrect payments. There is no risk of your application being lost or delayed in the mail. You will receive a receipt number immediately after filing that you can use to track your case status. In addition to paper notifications about your case, you will also receive online notifications directly in your USCIS account. If a paper notification is not delivered due to a mailing issue, you will still be able to see it in your USCIS account. These notifications can include receipt notices, requests for evidence, denials, and approvals. E-filing Disadvantages ISSS cannot advise on the e-filing process. You are free to choose this option, but please understand that if problems arise, ISSS will not be able to assist. Since e-filing is relatively new, ISSS is not aware of what possible complications or problems may arise for applications filed online. I need to apply for OPT. May I apply remotely from elsewhere in the U.S.? May I apply from outside the U.S.? You must be physically present in the United States at the time you submit your Optional Practical Training (OPT) application. If you're in your home country and have questions about how this will affect your ability to apply for OPT, then please contact us to discuss your case. ISSS will continue to process OPT applications via myIO. We strongly encourage you to submit your application as soon as possible. Can I request USCIS to expedite my OPT application? The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced on March 29, 2022 that United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will introduce a premium processing option for I-765 Applications for Employment Authorization. The new rule will go into effect on May 31, 2022. What is premium processing? Premium processing is an expedited adjudication service. It allows the petitioner to pay a fee to USCIS in return for the expediting of their application. Am I eligible for premium processing of an application? If you are in one of the following categories, you may be able to request premium processing after the new rule goes into effect on May 31, 2022. F-1 student applying for OPT (Optional Practical Training) F-1 student applying for 24-month STEM OPT extension You must verify that the benefit you are applying for is listed on the USCIS Premium Processing page. This page will be updated as premium processing becomes available to new types of applications. How much does premium processing cost and how fast will it be? I-765 for OPT/STEM OPT: $1,500, 30 days Should I apply for premium processing? You will need to consider these points when making your decision: What the standard processing time is for your application. When you want or need your application to be approved. Whether you believe the cost is worth the expedite. Back to Top ↑ FAQs for Student on Post Completion OPT/STEM OPT Extension I'm on OPT and I'm now working remotely due to COVID-19. Do I need to update my SEVP Portal? No, it is not necessary to update your site of employment in the SEVP Portal or to update your I-983 (for those on STEM OPT) for remote work due to COVID-19. I've lost my job due to COVID-19. Will this count against my unemployment days? The Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) has not issued a statement concerning changes to the normal unemployment limits. We advise all students to stay within 90 days of unemployment to maintain their F-1 status and OPT. Prior to reaching 90 days of unemployment, students on OPT are required to depart the United States or make other plans to maintain their status. I'm on OPT and still working, but my hours have been cut below 20 hours per week. Will this count against my unemployment days? No, this will not count as unemployment. SEVP is making a temporary exception for anyone still working, but working less than 20 hours per week because of the COVID-19 crisis. Back to Top ↑ FAQs for International Scholars, Faculty, and Staff Current Scholars, Faculty, and Staff I am a J-1 exchange visitor and need a travel signature on my DS-2019. How do I get one? Please contact us to request a travel signature on your DS-2019. Please keep in mind that with the current global travel restrictions and global pandemic, we strongly encourage you to postpone any non-essential international travel. I am a J-1 exchange visitor. What should I do if I want to end my program early and depart the United States? Please coordinate any early departure with your department. If you depart the country more than 15 days before your DS-2019 end date and you do not intend to return to the U.S. for the remainder of your J program, contact us so your DS-2019 end date can be updated accordingly. I am a J-1 exchange visitor. What should I do if I want to end my program early and depart the United States? Please coordinate any early departure with your department. If you depart the country more than 15 days before your DS-2019 end date and you do not intend to return to the U.S. for the remainder of your J program, contact us so your DS-2019 end date can be updated accordingly. I am a J-1 exchange visitor in the Short-Term Scholar category that is valid for only 6 months, but I need more time. What do I do? Please contact ISSS to discuss your situation. If the situation is beyond our area of expertise we will recommend that you contact an immigration attorney about the best path to extend your stay in the U.S. New Incoming Scholars, Faculty, and Staff I am a new J-1 visiting scholar or employee currently outside of the U.S. and I can't enter to start my program. What can I do? The current COVID-19 situation is rapidly evolving and unpredictable. It is unclear how long the travel bans or other global travel restrictions may remain in effect for re-entry to the U.S. and how your entry could be impacted. We will work with our J-1 scholars on a case-by-case basis to determine the best path forward. If your start date and documents should be adjusted, please consult with your department, and contact us if there will be any changes to your program dates. Once you have been able to secure travel arrangements to enter the U.S., please consult your department about your ability to be physically present on campus. My department has just requested my DS-2019. Is there anything I should do now? Yes. You will receive and email prompting you to log into myIO. Please complete all required forms in myIO to complete the DS-2019 request. Given the current visa appointment availability, please discuss with your department a practicable arrival date. What is the earliest I will be able to come to the UT campus to begin my J-1 program? The current COVID-19 situation is rapidly evolving and unpredictable. ISSS continues to issue DS-2019s for future start dates. Please discuss with your department a practicable future start date. I already received my J visa stamp from a U.S. consulate, but I cannot enter as previously planned. Will I now have to apply for a new one? No. If you have your J-1 visa stamp, please check the validity date. In most cases you will not need to re-apply to a U.S. embassy or consulate, even though your arrival date will change. You will use the combination of your J-1 visa stamp and your DS-2019 with updated dates to enter the U.S. I just recently arrived in the U.S. with my new J-1 status. What should I do now? Please complete the "J-1 Scholar Arrival Notification" and "J-1 Scholar Arrival Form" in myIO and contact us to schedule a virtual check-in. Back to Top ↑ FAQs for Departments I want to hire an international researcher or tenure-track faculty member. However, my candidate/prospective employee is currently outside the U.S. and may unable to arrive in time for the start of the semester. Can this individual work from abroad? New international faculty/researchers who are unable to enter the U.S. and need to begin employment in their home country are not prevented from doing so from an immigration standpoint. However, complexities lie in the hiring and payment of individuals living abroad as each country has distinct labor and tax laws. Individuals hired from abroad will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Please contact Payroll Services with cc: to Texas Global for further information. I want to hire a new international graduate student as a teaching assistant/research assistant. The individual will not be able to enter the United States in time for the spring semester; however, he/she can perform the work from abroad. What should I do? Unfortunately, students may not be employed for UT if they are studying from outside the U.S. We recommend departments explore if other sources of funding is possible. With more remote-learning class options available, what modes of instruction are permitted for international students who are in Austin? SEVP has extended the exemption from the in-person course requirement to the 2022-2023 academic year. Continuing F-1/ J-1 students will be able to take as many online courses as appropriate for their academic program. They will need to enroll full-time in order to maintain F-1 or J-1 status. New students coming to the U.S. will need to enroll in at least one face-to-face or hybrid course and will need to enroll full-time in order to maintain F-1/ J-1 status. Are new international students who are not able to arrive in Austin in time for the start of the semester allowed to begin their program of study by taking online classes from abroad? Yes, new students may enroll in online classes if they do not plan to arrive in Austin for the start of the semester. ISSS will need to work with these students to adjust their immigration documents according to their plans. However, new students will not be able to begin UT employment until they arrive in the United States. I have new international students scheduled to receive a fellowship. They will be taking classes online, but will not be able to enter the U.S. Can we still provide them fellowship money? The tuition portion of a fellowship can be paid since it applies directly to the student’s tuition bill. The class modality does not impact this. If the fellowship includes money being paid directly to the student, then you will not be able to pay it. FRMS requires information about the student’s F-1 or J-1 visa and that the student has either a U.S. address or U.S. bank account in order to pay out. If the fellowship is from another unit (like the Graduate School), work with that unit regarding any need to defer a fellowship. If we have offered a fellowship to a new international student who is not able to enter the U.S., can we offer that fellowship to another student instead? If the student has decided not to defer but to decline admission and not come to UT, then consult with whoever is providing the fellowship for whether it can be reallocated to another student. If the student is deferring or arriving late in the semester, that money has already been promised to that student and cannot be reallocated to someone else. How do we defer a fellowship for an international student who has deferred admission? The Graduate Coordinator should contact the unit that is funding the fellowship to request the deferral. Back to Top ↑ Presidential Proclamations Proclamation on Advancing the Safe Resumption of Global Travel During the COVID-⁠19 Pandemic On Oct. 25, 2021, President Joseph Biden issued a proclamation specifying that proof of COVID-19 vaccination is now mandatory for travelers flying into the U.S. from abroad. The proclamation will go into effect at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on Nov. 8, 2021. Key points of the proclamation: COVID-19-related restrictions applying to air travel to the U.S. from specific countries have been lifted. Air travelers to the U.S. must now show proof of vaccination to board their flight to the U.S. This requirement applies in addition to the existing requirement to show proof of a negative COVID-19 test within three days of the flight. Proclamation Affecting Chinese Students and Scholars On May 29, 2020, the President issued Proclamation on the Suspension of Entry as Nonimmigrants of Certain Students and Researchers from the People’s Republic of China. The order affects Chinese nationals who have ties to an entity in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) that implements or supports the PRC's Military-Civil Fusion (MCF) strategy. Individuals impacted by the order include: New graduate students and researchers who have not applied for a visa; Any current graduate student or researcher not present in the United States, including those who have a valid F-1 or J-1 visa. The order does not affect: Undergraduate students; Graduate students and researchers currently present in the United States. There are still many unknowns that we do not have sufficient information on yet. Texas Global is closely monitoring the situation and will update this website once additional information becomes available. The order also directs the Secretary of State to determine whether to cancel visas of graduate students and researchers present in the United States and who have ties to entities that support the MCF strategy. The cancellation of a visa generally does not mean that the individual must depart the US. However, those who have a canceled visa and leave the country would no longer be able to reenter in F or J status. No official list of Chinese universities has been released. We don't have any indication yet as to how the order will affect the visa application process. We also don't know how Customs and Border Protection will screen students and scholars at the US port-of-entry. Back to Top ↑ General Information Back to Top ↑ General Support for International Students and Scholars Career Support Texas Career Engagement Center now offers a new service designed specifically for international students. Interstride provides a one-stop shop for international students, including visa and immigration information; companies that sponsor employment visas; guidance on intercultural networking; job listings, real-time hiring trends, and employer information; and tailored assessment tests. Food Assistance The UT Outpost is an on campus food pantry that can help students who are experiencing food insecurity. In response to COVID-19 they are providing contactless pick up of pre-packaged items to students in need. Report a Bias, Harassment or Discrimination Incident Bias incidents are offenses against individuals or groups that are motivated by perceived identity such as age, citizenship, national origin, gender, and gender expression. Examples of bias incidents include verbal harassment, hateful written comments, and derogatory graffiti. If you observed or have personally experienced a bias incident, we urge you to report the details. Please refer to this list of offices that can receive your report. If you encounter a situation that requires immediate police, medical, psychological, or other emergency service, you should always call 911 first. We all belong to the UT family and we want to make sure that everyone in the community is welcomed and respected. Health and Wellness Stay safe and well during the pandemic. Protect Texas Together website is your one stop resource for all policies and resources for Covid-19. If you are physically coming to campus, be sure to download the Protect Texas Together phone app to obtain your daily campus pass. University Health Services is your on-campus wellness resource. In addition to their regular services they currently provide tele-appointments as well as COVID-19 screening and testing. It is important to stay healthy both physically as well as in the mind and spirit. The Counseling and Mental Health Center continues to provide services to all international students. Telehealth appointments as well as virtual drop-in groups are available. All enrolled international students are automatically enrolled in the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) which provides very comprehensive coverage for any COVID-19 related expenses. Back to Top ↑ ISSS Processing Times Email Inquiries The current response time for general email inquiries is two business days (not including weekends or holidays). Rest assured that an ISSS advisor will respond to your inquiry. CPT Authorizations Please allow for 10 business days (not including weekends) for your CPT I-20 to be issued. We will review your request and issue your CPT I-20 no later than one business day before your employment is expected to begin. OPT Requests Please allow for 10 business days (not including weekends) for your OPT I-20 to be issued. We will provide you with instructions on how to compile and submit your application to USCIS. STEM OPT Requests Please allow for 10 business days (not including weekends) for your STEM OPT I-20 to be issued. We will send your STEM OPT I-20 at least two weeks prior to your current OPT expiration and provide you with instructions on how to compile and mail your application to USCIS. As long as USCIS receives your application before your current OPT expires, you may continue to work for 180 days while the application is pending. Initial I-20s We are sensitive to the needs of new students to schedule a visa appointment. We are processing documents as quickly as possible to ensure you have the information required to schedule an appointment with your local U.S. consulate. Check the notifications on your myIO Home Page to determine if we need further information from you. Once you have completed all the required processes in myIO, please allow 1-3 weeks for the issuance of your I-20. To expedite the process, we will send you a digital I-20 via secure email. Back to Top ↑ In this Section About ISSS Staff Directory Emergency Information Stay Informed ISSS Fees Contact ISSS ISSS on Social Media facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Make a Gift Contact 2400 Nueces Street Suite B Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-1211 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., Monday – Friday Passport Services 8 a.m. – 2 p.m. Monday - Friday More Information Careers Communications Emergency Support Information for Departments International Travel Policies Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Website Feedback © The University of Texas at Austin 2022