Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Webinar VII: On the 50th Anniversary of Earth Day - How is COVID-19 pandemic affecting clean energy and climate action Events Past Event Webinar VII: On the 50th Anniversary of Earth Day - How is COVID-19 pandemic affecting clean energy and climate action Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 29, 2020 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM As the world celebrates the 50th anniversary of Earth Day, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will host a webinar with experts from the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University SIPA, Bloomberg New Energy Finance, LONGGi Green Energy Technology, World Resources Institute, and Energy Foundation China for a discussion about clean energy development and climate action in the wake of a global shutdown. How is the COVID-19 pandemic affecting clean energy advancement and global markets? What can we learn from COVID-19 to help with climate change? Will governments and companies slow down climate goals in the face of recession? Can green energy drive COVID-19 recovery? Please join us to explore. This webinar is in Beijing Time. Opening Remarks David Sandalow is the Inaugural Fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy and co-Director of the Energy and Environment Concentration at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. He founded and directs the Center’s U.S.-China Program and is author of the Guide to Chinese Climate Policy. During Fall 2019, he was a Distinguished Visiting Professor in the Schwarzman Scholars Program at Tsinghua University. Mr. Sandalow has served in senior positions at the White House, State Department and U.S. Department of Energy. He came to Columbia from the U.S. Department of Energy, where he served as Under Secretary of Energy (acting) and Assistant Secretary for Policy & International Affairs. Prior to serving at DOE, Mr. Sandalow was a Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He has served as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Environment & Science and a Senior Director on the National Security Council staff. Panelists Kevin TU is a Non-Resident Fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy. He is also a senior advisor at Agora Energiewende, and an adjunct professor at the School of Environment of Beijing Normal University. Prior to September 2018, Tu had served various positions including China program manager at Paris-based International Energy Agency, director of China Energy & Climate Program at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC., partner at a Vancouver-based premier energy consulting firm, director of marine operations at China’s largest LPG importer and distributor, and construction project manager at Sinopec, a Chinese national oil company. Tu has more than two decades of solid experience in the energy and environmental fields in Asia Pacific, North America and Europe, his research interests cover the full spectrum of energy issues including fossil fuel value chains, energy transitions, energy sector reforms as well as climate change, with a focus on U.S.-China relations and EU-China relations, and their implications for China’s energy & climate policies. Hong MIAO is WRI China Energy Program Lead, responsible for development, implementation and management of projects in clean energy fields, mainly renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors in China. With over 20 years of work experience, she accumulated, not only, rich skills and knowledge in policy research, project development, investment and financing, especially for the development and implementation of international cooperation projects, but broadly network and appropriate relationships with stakeholders in RE and EE sectors in the world and in China. Hanyang WEI graduates from SIPA of Columbia University with concentration on Energy & Environment. His undergraduate study focused on economics and finance. He now works with Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) as an analyst for China power market and green finance, in order to understand the policymaking, regulations and clean transition of China's energy sector. Previously, he served as an environmental consultant for three years and conducted site environmental assessment and green finance auditing. He also served as board member for two non-profit organizations. In 2011, internship with UNEP in Geneva for mainstreaming environment in national policies and finance-related initiatives; in 2009, youth representative at the UN Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen (COP15). Alan WANG, senior strategic manager of LONGi, senior researcher of PV industry. He has in-depth research on photovoltaic technology, cost, market and future development trends. He was a senior research manager of a well-known listed oil and gas company in China. He has an in-depth understanding of energy transformation and a high proportion of clean electricity. He has participated in relevant work of the United Nations Climate Conference several times. Jing YUAN is the Program Officer in the Clean Power Program. She has many years of professional experience in the fields of energy and environment, with proven track record in public policy, development strategy and international affairs. Prior to joining the Energy Foundation, Ms. Yuan worked for the Asian Development Bank People's Republic of China Resident Mission. Ms. Yuan holds a Bachelor of Law in Diplomacy from China Foreign Affairs University and a Master of Public Administration from Beijing Normal University. Notice The event will be in Chinese. Please click the registration link below to register. Once you complete the registration form, you will enter the livestream page. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close