Center for Mathematical Modeling – University of Chile | Centro de Modelamiento Matemático – Universidad de Chile About us About us Background Scientific Project Counterparts and Network People Basic Research Applied Research Training Events Seminars Outreach News News In the Media Noticias en castellano Newsletter Boletín CMM Noticias en español Previous Next Explorando el fondo marino: Biodiversidad Planctónica Seminario. La riqueza de la vida submarina en el mar austral también se transforma en sensor protagónico ante el cambio climático. Jueves 2 de junio, 9:00 hrs. Read More CMM researchers recognized at FCFM celebration honoring new tenured professors The FCFM organized a ceremony to distinguish its academics who obtained the highest rank within the ordinary academic career in the last three years. Read More Mathematics increases the resolution of MRI measurements of tissue stiffness Mathematicians at CMM, in collaboration with european scientists, have made advances in overcoming challenges associated with magnetic resonance elastography (MRE). Read More Matías Rojas, from the CMM Natural Language Processing group, among the 100 Young Leaders The member of the applied research group appeared in the latest version of the annual list of Sábado magazine for the impact of his work on Chilean society. Read More Women in Mathematics in Chile Celebrating the women who develop mathematics in our country, on the occasion of the International Day of Women in Mathematics. Read More Astronomy at the service of the fight against covid-19 in Chile Codelco, the Chilean copper company, installs state-of-the-art CO₂ detectors in schools, driven by two astronomers, to reduce contagions. Read More News CMM researchers recognized at FCFM celebration honoring new tenured professors Mathematics increases the resolution of MRI measurements of tissue stiffness Matías Rojas, from the CMM Natural Language Processing group, among the 100 Young Leaders Events Explorando el fondo marino: Biodiversidad Planctónica Latin American Congress on Industrial and Applied Mathematics (LACIAM) – RIO 2023 ARGO2022: Workshop on Algebraic Real Geometry and Optimization COVID-19 en Chile NLHPC The National Laboratory for High Performance Computing (NLHPC) is the supercomputing center at the service of all Chileans. Copernicus in Chile This repository allows Chilean users to access free and open data provided by the Sentinel satellites of the Copernicus Constellation. About us CMM aims to create new mathematics and use it to solve problems coming from other sciences, the industry and public policies. Contact us Job Opportunities Harassment and Discrimination Policy Sitemap tel +56 2 2978 4870 email : infocmm@cmm.uchile.cl Beauchef 851, Edificio Norte – Piso 7 Santiago - CHILE Job Opportunities CMM–CNRS Chairs of Excellence for Young Researchers 2022 – CLOSED Postdoctoral Positions 2022 at CMM – CLOSED Postdoctoral Positions 2022 at CMM Universidad de Chile – Simons Institute Berkeley – CLOSED ©2022 CMM - Center for Mathematical Modeling | FCFM | Universidad de Chile a CNRS International Research Laboratory