Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Governance Challenges in the 21st Century Events Past Event Governance Challenges in the 21st Century Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 6, 2014 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Lecture with Katharina Pistor of Columbia Law School examines participation and inclusion: “Governance Challenges in the 21st Century” June 6, 2014 at Studio X Istanbul 19:00 – 21:00 Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul and Studio X Istanbul invite you to a lecture and discussion with Katharina Pistor of Columbia Law School and Fikret Adaman of Boğaziçi University on "Governance Challenges in the 21st Century: Depoliticization, Rescaling, and Capitalization". The 21st century has brought new governance challenges that are often summarized by reference to the term 'globalization'. Closer inspection suggests that globalization entails multiple trajectories of change within states, among actors inside and outside nation states, as well as new forms of resource mobilization and risk allocation. Within states depoliticization can be observed in the form of delegating decisions to independent regulators and experts, central banks, or judiciaries. A second trajectory is the rescaling of economic and social relations well beyond the territorial boundaries of nation states, facilitated by transnational legal arrangements that have their roots in national law. Law is also a critical ingredient for transforming real assets into commodities and ultimately financial assets, that is, the capitalization of assets. These trajectories have differential effects on different constituencies within and across domestic polities: some benefit from direct participation or inclusion in these processes, while others face exclusion. Recognizing these trajectories and their potentially destabilizing effects for polities is of critical importance for effective governance. Katharina Pistor is the Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law at Columbia Law School and the Director of the School’s Center on Global Legal Transformation, and has served as a member of Columbia University’s Committee on Global Thought since its inception. She previously taught at the Kennedy School of Government, and worked at the Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Private Law in Hamburg, Germany and the Harvard Institute for International Development. In the 1990s she worked predominantly on transition economies in Central and Eastern Europe and Russia, where she conducted extensive field research. Since then, her research has expanded to other emerging markets (in East Asia) and the impact of globalization on the transformation of law and legal institutions in the areas of finance, property rights and transnational regulation. She is Principal Investigator of the “Global Finance and Law Initiative,” a collaborative research project aimed at re-conceptualizing the relation between finance and law, funded by INET. She is a member of the Board of Directors of the European Corporate Governance Institute, a Research Associate of the Center for Economic Policy Research and an Editor of “Economics of Transition." In 2012 she received the Max Planck Research Award for her contributions to international financial regulation. Fikret Adaman is currently professor of economics at Boğaziçi University. His articles appeared in, among others, Antipode, Cambridge Journal of Economics, Development and Change, Ecological Economics, Energy Policy, Environment and Behavior, Environment and Planning C, Environmental Politics, European Journal of History of Economic Thought, Journal of Economic Issues, Journal of European Social Policy, New Left Review. He is currently acting (with Burcay Erus) as an expert on social inclusion to the European Commission. He co-edited Rethinking Structural Reform in Turkish Agriculture (Nova, 2010, with B. Karapınar and G. Özertan), Environmentalism in Turkey (Ashgate, 2005, with M. Arsel), and Integrating and Articulating Environments (Swets & Zeitlinger, 2003, with O. Seippel, F. Gökşen, M. O'Brien, Ü. Zenginobuz and J. Grolin). He focuses on the political economy of the environment. He received his BA and MA in Economics at Boğaziçi University; Ph.D. in Economics at Manchester University. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close