Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home 2019 Summer Film Panel for Returnees Events Past Event 2019 Summer Film Panel for Returnees Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 12, 2019 6:00 PM - 8:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On July 12, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, in collaboration with Columbia Alumni Association of Beijing, invites you to the 2019 Summer Film Panel for Returnees. The event is organized by Columbia alumni Qiang LONG, MFA in Film Producing '12 and Founder of Morningside Film Works, and Delicia KUANG, MFA in Film Producing '13 and Director of Strategic Development, Nextainment Media, with support by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Columbia Alumni Association of Beijing. The theme of this event is "Globalization and Localization". The goal of this event is to create a communication platform for the film returnees, help them to know each other and find partners. The event will invite a few senior professionals in China's film industry, such as producer, director, and critic, who will give these returnees useful suggestions regarding how to work on a better localization. The reception is sponsored by Qiang LONG SOA '12. Panelists Xudong WANG Xudong is a famous film critic, the judge of FIRST Film Festival. He is the producer of movies with ten billion box offices. He creates the first AI script visual analysis platform in the world. He was the producer and script supervisor for movies like Path of the Soul, The Wandering Earth, Detective Chinatown, Silent Separation, The Dead End, Uncle Victory, One Night Surprise. Zhuqing Layla JI Layla is a film writer, director. Layla graduated from Columbia University Film MFA in 2014. She received the Best Commercial Value Project award and MPAA award at Beijing International Film Festival. Her script received the Best Young Director's Award at China Film Foundation Wutianming Film Fund and was invited to Venice Days. Victim(s) is her first feature film. Loic DING Senior Producer at Shanghai Project Banana Co., Ltd (Banana Pictures). Educated in Paris, Loic started as a director and moved back to China where he has produced many films. He’s also the head of Banana Pictures’ Excavation Program which discovers promising new directors. Moderator Delicia KUANG Film Producer and Screenwriter. Delicia lived in the UK and US over the past ten years and worked on the development, production and financing of several films. Delicia gained her MPhil in Sociology at University of Cambridge, and her MFA in Creative Producing at Columbia University. Currently, she serves as the director of development in Nextainment Media Group. Agenda 5:30 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Registration 6:00 p.m. - 7:15 p.m. Panel Discussion on "Globalization and Localization" 7:15 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. Q&A 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Networking Time Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Registration begins 30 minutes prior to the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close