Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home About About Global Travel and the International Travel Planning Policy About Global Travel and the International Travel Planning Policy About Global Travel Global Travel is dedicated to supporting the health, safety, and security of University travelers engaged in Columbia Travel abroad. We can assist with pre-departure preparations, including overseeing the requirements of the university's International Travel Planning Policy* and working closely with the university's 24/7 emergency assistance provider, International SOS. In support of the mission and core values of Columbia University, we monitor worldwide news, travel alerts, and International SOS Global Risk Ratings to assemble and disseminate safety resources to those on official Columbia Travel. We provide support for Columbia travelers and various international travel issues, such as providing services in times of crisis or emergency. In urgent situations, this includes making recommendations for traveler evacuation from a specific location(s) or halting travel to a specific location for a period of time. The International Travel Planning Policy (ITPP)* This policy establishes a set of guidelines and requirements for planning international travel and covers international Columbia Travel, which includes Columbia-Led Travel and Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel, as defined below. It does not cover Non-Columbia Travel. Travelers should fulfill pre-departure travel requirements aligned with the highest-risk location included in their itinerary. "Location" could refer to country, city, or region. From time to time, the University may issue guidance, requirements, and restrictions regarding travel to specific designations in addition to what is specified here**. Global Travel hosted the International Travel Planning Forum in April 2022. Please find the recording of the Forum here. *For a PDF version of the International Travel Planning Policy, please click here. **For Spring and Summer 2022 International Travel Restrictions, please click here. Pre-Departure Travel Requirements by Destination Travel Risk Rating (as defined by International SOS, or "ISOS") Affiliate Type Students, Officers of Administration, Support Staff Insignificant Risk Required to register International Columbia Travel. Low Risk Required to register International Columbia Travel. Medium Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel and to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. High Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and secure written approval from dean or unit head*. Extreme Risk Required to register international Columbia travel, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and secure written approvals from dean/unit head* and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost and for CUMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation Required to register international Columbia travel, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and *receive written approvals from dean/administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. Affiliate Type Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellow/Scholars traveling with students Insignificant Risk Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Low Risk Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Medium Risk Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. High Risk Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Extreme Risk Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Affiliate Type Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellows/Scholars traveling without students Insignificant Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel. Low Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel. Medium Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel and strongly encouraged to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. High Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel and encouraged to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. Extreme Risk Required to register international Columbia Travel and encouraged to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation Required to register international Columbia travel, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and *receive written approvals from dean/administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine *Officers of Administration, Support Staff, and Students proposing travel to High and/or Extreme ISOS Travel Risk or locations with an elevated evacuation status must submit an Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form. *Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellows/Scholars traveling without students to locations locations with an elevated evacuation status must submit an Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form. Global Travel will effectuate Dean review and approval for travel to ISOS High and/or Extreme Travel Risk locations. Undergraduate International Travel Policy Undergraduate Students must comply with the Undergraduate International Travel Policy which includes a separate process of the ISOS itinerary review. Email [email protected] if you have any questions about the Undergraduate International Travel Policy. For any questions regarding Global Travel or the International Travel Planning Policy, please email us at [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close