Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Entrepreneurship Panel Series VII: Entrepreneurship for Sustainable Development Events Past Event Beijing Entrepreneurship Panel Series VII: Entrepreneurship for Sustainable Development Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 31, 2019 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing The entrepreneurship in China has enjoyed a fast growth. Nowadays, many entrepreneurs wonder if they could apply innovative thinking to stimulate the realization of social responsibility and to create a better society. On August 31, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the seventh panel discussion on social entrepreneurship and philanthropy. The panel is aimed at deepening our understanding of how to use commercial models to solve social problems sustainably. The panelists will also discuss whether fulfilling social responsibility is an important aspect of the corporate culture for startup companies and whether business for good will bring survival crisis to startup companies or benefit both corporate development and social innovation. Panelists Jingjing Gina LONG SSW '19 Ms. Jingjing Long is the President of Kindforce; founder of One Dollar Project. She graduated from Columbia University school of social work in May 2019. Kindforce is a social innovation organization that provides long-term voluntary teaching, voluntourism, and creative learning space for the rural children. In the past eight years, she inspired over thousands of international students to participate in volunteer works. Kindforce has supported over nine hundreds children. In August 2018, Long and related experience of the organization being recognized as the topical event, and ranked in the top 20 on the Weibo hot search list. At the same time, her story was also reported by more than 300 media reports such as China Daily, Xinhua News Agency, and China Youth Daily. She was named in "All America Chinese Youth Federation Top 30 under 30" and "Belt and Road - ASEAN Youth Leadership Award". Xingyu WANG Wang Xingyu is the co-founder of Beyond the City, a social enterprise aims to bridge cities and villages through education. Beyond the City has brought over 1000 city millennials to do field study projects in rural areas of China and has sponsored near 100 village students to take career planning course in cities like Shanghai and Chengdu. Those programs have been covered by over 40 mainstream media, such as China Daily, People's Daily, and etc. Wang is the cover person of China Youth Magazine, the Nominee of Forbes China 30 under 30 list, and the Champion of a popular Chinese talent show "Who is Still Standing". Wang published his first book in 2017 and earned more than 120 thousand followers on Weibo, China's top social platform, as a key opinion leader among the youth in China. Nicholas Manske President and Cofounder of Alariss, a cross-border advisory and search firm (www.alariss.com), which uses big data to match global companies with top talent and resources. An alumnus of Harvard College and the Institut Européen d'Administration des Affaires in Paris, he was previously a diplomat for the U.S. Department of State working in Asia, the Middle East, and Washington DC. As a diplomat, he was tasked with advancing US economic negotiations, foreign investments, and international entrepreneurship initiatives, including organizing the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), a preeminent annual gathering that convenes entrepreneurs, investors, and their supporters globally; coordinating $500 million of financing for a Middle Eastern government in conjunction with J.P. Morgan; and serving as U.S. Consul during the Arab Spring. He speaks English, French, and some Mandarin. He also studied for a year at Peking University. Kehan Roderick DONG Associate at Y-Combinator China and Founder of The Code of Love, which provides support for the education system in the low-income regions. Since its inception, there are over 1800 people joined as the volunteers. Founder of the INNER JOURNEYS (innerjourneys.space), a boutique online travel agencies and lifestyle media platform. Agenda 2:30 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Sign-in 3:00 p.m. – 3:05 p.m. Opening Remarks 3:05 p.m. – 4:05 p.m. Presentation 4:05 p.m. – 4:45 p.m. Panel Discussion 4:45 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Q&A Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close