Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Faculty-Led Programs Faculty-Led Programs Faculty-Led Programs Call for Proposals for 2023 Faculty-Led Study Abroad Programs Faculty-led programs are offered by TU professors where learning is facilitated through faculty’s expertise and connections in a global context. Faculty utilize the international location to augment student’s learning and guide the academic component in the context of local culture and site-enhanced activities. Faculty-led programs are designed for the student who desires to study abroad within a TU environment of professors and peers. Often times students who participate in a faculty-led program return to campus with a desire to study abroad on a more independent program and/or become more intentionally engaged with Tulsa’s local international community and/or global issues. There are three types of faculty-led programs: Summer Programs, Fall and Spring Break Programs, and Fall and Spring Extension Programs. TU Faculty-led study abroad programs policies and procedures Semester Break Program Semester break programs occur over TU’s spring or fall breaks (typically a week-long to 10-day program). Faculty offering semester break programs do so in conjunction with a regular course. Students enroll in the course and participate in the travel component for an additional program fee. The approximately week-long experience enhances course learning because of the site-specific activities that demonstrate application of knowledge learned in the classroom. EXAMPLES OF SEMESTER BREAK (SPRING/FALL) COURSES Tropical Ecology in Costa Rica International Nursing & Technology in London Semester Extension Programs Fall or Spring extension programs are one- to two-week-long study abroad experiences following the completion of a three-credit hour spring course. December/May extension programs provide a “living lab” experience where students apply knowledge learned during the regular term in a global setting. Students enroll in the fall/spring course with the understanding that the one- to two-week study abroad component is required and factors into the final grade for the course. Following the completion of the regular spring term, students will receive an N/G designation until the study abroad component is completed in which the N/G will be replaced with a grade. There is a program fee associated with the December/May extension program however the advantage is a one- to two-week global experience that directly relates to the content learned during the semester for no additional tuition costs. EXAMPLES OF EXTENSION COURSES MGT: Organizational Management in Sweden Block 2/MS: Public Space & The City in Greece & Rome Honors: Medieval and Renaissance in Italy SPAN: Don Quijote in Valencia 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT