Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home 'Pioneer Open Mic' Third Roadshow: The Next Big Social Media Apps Events Past Event 'Pioneer Open Mic' Third Roadshow: The Next Big Social Media Apps Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 12, 2021 1:30 PM - 5:35 PM Z-Link+, 3F 39 Dongzhimen Outer St, Dongcheng District, Beijing Time: 1:30 - 5:35 PM (Beijing) 📍 Address: Z-Link+, 3F 39 Dongzhimen Outer St, Dongcheng District, Beijing Launched by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Center, the 'Pioneer Open Mic' business incubation program provides young entrepreneurs of Columbia University and other Ivy League schools with access to life-changing opportunities to empower their talents and passion for innovation. Learn more about the program and apply HERE. The third roadshow of the program will focus on how emerging social media platforms can expand their users, build stronger connections, and evolve with the technology and needs. During this event, entrepreneurs from Peking University, King's College London, University of Washington, University of Pennsylvania, and the National University of Singapore will share their entrepreneurial projects, stories, and visions. Representatives from the Beijing Center, Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Center, and Columbia alumni clubs will also attend the event and give remarks. Speakers Jiayi Wu, Founder of Startown Wu graduated from the National University of Singapore and had worked for six years on programming education in Singapore, which provided her experience in observing the social lives of young people in not only Singapore but also many other countries in Southeast Asia. Startown was founded to satisfy the needs of social networking for young people in Southeast Asia. Renyou Yu, Founder of Topos As a liberal arts student interested in the Internet since elementary school, Yu has a rich experience in entrepreneurial failure. From China to the U.S. and back to China, Yu has been exploring the internet for the possibility of the future. At this roadshow, he will present the exciting stories behind his social network utopia, Topos. Yuexing Sun, Founder of Zhixingheyi Sun enjoys traveling to different places just like anyone else at his age. However, he takes this hobby one step further by founding a traveling agency that plans trips and creates surprises for its users. Zhixingheyi plans trips according to its algorithm analysis of the user’s information. It then generates a Blindbox of traveling plan which is tailored to the user’s preference. Users will enjoy the surprises from their journey into the unknown. Yuchen Jin, Founder of AlphaLink Jin graduated from the Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania with an MBA degree. He noticed many young people are facing difficulties and challenges in job-hunting and social networking. Aiming to tackle these pain points, Jin developed AlphaLink to provide an all-in-one social networking service through gathering resources from colleges, universities, and top companies. Looking for alumni networks, job opportunities, or even soul mates will never be any difficulties for the users of AlphaLink anymore. Chao Xiong, Founder of BitHere Xiong graduated from Peking University with a degree in Theoretical Physics. As a fan of the metaverse and augmented reality technology, Xiong has been seeking a way to merge AR technology into daily social networking since three years ago. He believes the internet is accelerating its integration with the physical world, and information flows should be tangible to everybody. BitHere is an AR-based social product that defines a new way of social networking by providing 3D content creation and sharing experience to its users, and thus creating an AR-based social metaverse. Hao Li, Founder of Flex Flex is committed to creating a social network for Gen Z. Centered around business, emotion, and hobbies, the app aims to provide its users with in-depth and high-quality connections. The company has established partnerships with many overseas alumni and industry organizations. Its team members come from diverse backgrounds in sociology, psychology, information science, computer science, finance, and international relations. Agenda 1:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Sign in 2:00 p.m. - 2:20 p.m. Opening Speech and Introduction 2:20 p.m. - 2:45 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Jiayi Wu, Founder of Startown 2:45 p.m. - 3:10 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Renyou Yu, Founder of Topos 3:10 p.m. - 3:50 p.m. Open Mic Hours: Brainstorming open mic for everyone to present 3:50 p.m. - 4:15 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Yuexing Sun, Founder of Zhixingheyi 4:15 p.m. - 4:40 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Yuchen Jin, Founder of AlphaLink 4:40 p.m. - 5:05 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Chao Xiong, Founder of BitHere 5:05 p.m. - 5:35 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Hao Li, Founder of Flex Reminders Event language: Chinese Please plan to arrive no earlier than the sign-in time. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close