Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Statement on the situation in Ukraine Statement on the situation in Ukraine February 28, 2022 The Center for Global Engagement is closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine. CGE is in regular contact with our students from both the Ukraine and Russia, providing support, resources and encouraging them to work with TU CAPS and other university services. Some of the international students most directly affected by current world events have requested privacy at this time. Here is a non-exhaustive list of organizations that are needing support right now: MDF (Media Development Foundation) in consortium with other organizations has started this fundraiser to support independent media in Ukraine and keep them going. Support is allocated based on the urgency of needs and distributed proportionally. Learn more here: https://www.gofundme.com/f/keep-ukraines-media-going UNICEF works in over 190 countries and territories to save children’s lives, to defend their rights, and to help them fulfill their potential, from early childhood through adolescence. Currently, UNICEF is working to scale up humanitarian delivery in the east and expanding across the country is needed. Learn more here: https://www.unicefusa.org/ Doctors Without Borders/Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) has been working with local volunteers, organizations, health care professionals, and authorities to help people travel to health care facilities, access prescribed medications, and to raise awareness about common health challenges. They are currently mobilizing staff and resources, preparing medical kids for rapid dispatch, and have sent additional emergency teams to the region. Learn more here: https://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/what-we-do/countries/ukraine World Central Kitchen (WCK): provides meals in response to humanitarian, climate, and community crises. They build resilient food systems with locally-led solutions. WCK is currently working at a 24-hour pedestrian border crossing southern Poland serving hot, nourishing meals within hours of the initial invasion and are now set up at multiple border crossings. Learn more here: https://wck.org/relief/activation-chefs-for-ukraine Razom (“together” in Ukranian) was founded on volunteering efforts of Ukrainian Americans in NYC during the 2013-2014 Revolution Dignity in Ukraine. Razon’s goal is to unlock the potential in Ukraine. Currently, they are focused on purchasing tactical medical supplies and medical supplies needed in hospitals. They have large, active volunteer networks, and have been able to quickly build a procurement team that purchases life-saving supplies in addition to a logistic team that transports supplies from Poland to Ukraine. Learn more here: https://razomforukraine.org/razom-emergency-response/ Global Education GLOBAL EDUCATION: LIFE ABROAD Recent Posts Meet the 2022 Global Graduates Statement on the situation in Ukraine Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! Study abroad in Ghana 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT