Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Istanbul What We Do Our Education Programs Our Education Programs Creating a solid ground for global education is a priority for Columbia University and the global centers. Since its foundation, the Istanbul Center has developed and facilitates various education and learning programs in collaboration with regional partners. These programs have enabled Columbia students to study a variety of subjects and enhance their local engagement towards a thorough global experience. The Istanbul Center also assists the development of course curriculum with the Office of Global Programs at Columbia, oversees relations with local universities and is responsible for organizing orientation programs, field trips and public events to serve the mission of the University for creating meaningful and impactful global engagement. Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: voes Slide 2: Istanbul - Programs - Education Slide 3: Istanbul - Programs - Education Slide 4: Istanbul - Programs - Education Slide 5: Istanbul - Programs - Education Slide 6: Istanbul - Programs - Education Previous Next Expand all Collapse all Voices of Emerging Scholars "The Voices of Emerging Scholars is developed to provide some visibility to young historians (advanced Ph.D. students and recent post-doctoral scholars) during this difficult time of the pandemic. We envisioned regularly held webinar meetings, organized around a shared theme. Limiting the chronology to the late 19th century Ottoman and early Turkish Republican eras for practical reasons, we made a call for papers and received an enthusiastic response. We planned over twenty sessions, each promising to open fresh perspectives onto the discipline. The six webinars that we held so far displayed rigorous, creative, critical, and bold thinking, addressed difficult questions, made unlikely connections, and revealed hitherto overlooked networks. The meticulous research was complex, relying on multitudes of archives, often in different places and necessitating familiarity with several languages. In brief, a lively scholarly community began to surface. We hope to support this group of brilliant young scholars further by publishing their papers in a special section of the ‘Journal of the Ottoman and Turkish Studies,’ starting in the Spring 2021 issue." ZEYNEP ÇELİK, Adjunct Professor, History Department, Columbia University and Distinguished Professor Emerita, New Jersey Institute of Technology For more information click here. Columbia Global Seminar: Byzantine and Modern Greek Encounters In 2015, Columbia University launched a semester long global core course in Istanbul, building upon existing relationships with Boğaziçi University and the Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul. Offered in the spring semester, the program is anchored by two seminars, taught by two distinguished Columbia faculty, Martha Howell, Miriam Champion Professor of History, from the Department of History and Karen Van Dyck, Kimon A. Doukas Professor of Modern Greek Literature from the Department of Classics. The course combines perspectives from several disciplines, with special emphasis on history, literature, and cultural studies, to examine how Greek society and culture has been interpreted and appropriated from the Middle Ages to the present. In 2015, Professor Howell explored western Europeans’ encounters with Byzantium and their experience of the early Ottoman Empire after the 1453 conquest of Constantinople using historical sources of various kinds: contemporary narratives, financial records, art and architecture, along with studies by modern scholars reflecting on the meaning of these sources. Professor Van Dyck, on the other hand, moved to the modern world, examining how conditions of modernity, postcoloniality, and globality fashion themselves in engagement with certain persistent imaginaries of Greece. During the program, students enrolled in a Turkish language course and chose at least one elective course from a variety of disciplines at Boğaziçi University to help navigate their encounters in modern day Istanbul. The Istanbul Center organized an orientation, field trips and a number of public events throughout the semester. These included a talk on “Pilgrimage: The Case of the Hajiis” featuring Associate Professor Valentina Izmirlieva from Columbia University, Department of Slavic Studies, a panel discussion on “Cultural Intimacy and the Crisis (of Patronage)” by Professor Michael Taussig, Columbia University, Department of Anthropology, a poetry reading on “Cyprus, Divided Cities, and the Geopolitics of Translation” featuring Professor Lawrance Venuti, Temple University, Department of English and Cypriot poet Mehmet Yashin; and a screening of Elia Kazan’s “America America” at the Zografyan Greek School. In 2015, the program was taken by four Columbia undergraduate students and three students from Boğaziçi University. In Spring 2016, the program was simultaneously co-taught by Professor Dimitrios Antoniou in New York and Professor Matthew Gumpert in Istanbul. Boğaziçi-Columbia Summer School in Byzantine and Ottoman Studies Since 2013, Columbia University has offered a joint summer program at Boğaziçi University for a select group of advanced undergraduate and graduate students to learn about the history, urban development, and historic monuments of the city of Byzantion-Constantinople-Istanbul. Directed by Professor Holger Klein, Department of Art History and Archaeology, the program consists of three courses and site visits designed to allow students to explore and understand Istanbul’s modern topography. The program possesses a research and fieldwork component, which helps students gain practical experience in architectural site survey and documentation, still and panoramic photography, archival work, and issues of architectural preservation. In summer 2015, the program was composed of three courses, “Architecture of the Sultans: Form, Function and Ideology in the Imperial Mosques of Istanbul” offered by Dr. Ünver Rüstem, Fari Sayeed Visiting Fellow in Islamic Art, Bye-Fellow of Pembroke College, Cambridge; “Byzantion – Constantinople – Istanbul: A City and its Monuments” offered by Dr. Nikolas Bakirtzis from the Cyprus Institute; and “Istanbul Heritage and Public Space” offered by Dr. Rachel Iannacone, an independent scholar. In 2015, three Columbia undergraduate students and five undergraduate students from Boğaziçi University were enrolled in the course. Summer Program in Tunis and Istanbul: Democracy and Constitutional Engineering Columbia University launched an intensive three-week summer program focused on democracy in June 2015. The program took place in Tunis and Istanbul and enrolled 14 Columbia students alongside 12 students from leading universities in Egypt, Lebanon, Tunisia and Turkey. Taught by Professor John Huber, Professor of Political Science at Columbia University, the program focused on the concept of democracy, the challenges of democratic transitions and consolidation, and trade-offs associated with different ways of designing constitutions and organizing democratic institutions. The Center organized a series of lectures with renowned guest speakers including Professor Mustafa Aydın, Rector of Kadir Has University, Professor Fuat Keyman, Director of Istanbul Policy Center, Professor Binnaz Toprak, member of Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Ömer Madra, co-founder and editor-in-chief of the radio channel Açık Radyo, Professor Ersin Kalaycıoğlu, Sabancı University, and Yaman Akdeniz, an Associate Professor of Law at the Human Rights Law Research Center, Faculty of Law, Istanbul Bilgi University. The lectures allowed students to gain further insight on a number of current issues including the 2015 Turkish parliamentary elections, freedom of speech, the Kurdish issue and gender equality in Turkey. The program is supported by the President’s Global Innovation Fund and the Lee C. and Jean Magnano Bollinger Fellowship. The Office of the University Chaplain’s Kraft Global Fellows Program In January 2015, Kraft Global Fellows explored inter-faith dialogue in a program led by university Chaplain Jewelnel Davis. Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul, in collaboration with the Office of the University Chaplain, designed a one-week program for Kraft Fellows’ trip to Turkey. After the initial days spent in Ephesus, the fellows travelled to Istanbul to attend a series of meetings and visits to several religious and cultural sites. Kraft Fellows visited the Office of Istanbul Mufti, the Istanbul Ecumenical Patriarchate, the Istanbul Armenian Patriarchate and the Chief Rabbinate in Istanbul. The fellows also participated in a Christmas Service at Armenian Surp Asvadzadzin Church in the Kumkapı district of Istanbul. Additional visits were organized to landmark sites such as Topkapi Palace, Hagia Sophia, Chora Church Museum among many others. The program proved to be a unique opportunity for the Kraft fellows to explore religious pluralism and understand how diverse religious communities interact with each other in Turkey. Global Immersion: Exploring Turkey’s Startup Culture, with The Jerome A. Chazen Institute for Global Business of the Columbia Business School Nearly 40 Columbia Business School students joined the Chazen Institute’s Global Immersion Program to explore how Turkey’s startup scene has grown and evolved over recent years. Global Immersion Program classes bridge classroom lessons and business practices of a country besides the US. These three-credit classes spend the first half of the semester in New York prior to a one-week visit to the country of focus. During the immersion week, students have the opportunity to meet with business executives and government officials while working on team projects. In preparation for the study visit, students spent six weeks in classes with Professor Jack McGourty, Director of Community and Global Entrepreneurship at the Columbia Business School, learning about the selected country’s business environment, political context and other factors that influence its start-up culture. Over the course of their week in Turkey, students met with business leaders, visited start-up incubators, and connected with entrepreneurs who are operating at the forefront of innovation. The Istanbul Center hosted the students for a seminar with the distinguished Professor Soli Özel of Kadir Has University, who gave a lecture about geopolitical developments in the region. The Center also organized a panel discussion featuring specialists and entrepreneurs from Endeavour. Free Online Columbia Courses Columbia | SIPA - Global Executive Masters of Public Administration Click HERE for exclusive content from Professor William B. Eimicke Columbia Business School Click HERE for: Free articles and webinars Coursera Click HERE for a complete list of 21 courses (6 free courses). You can also learn more about each one the courses HERE. EDX Click HERE for a complete list of 34 free courses Our Education Events Jun15Fri Studio-X and Amman Lab Design Workshop 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jul4Wed Columbia Business School, Pre-MBA Events 9:00 AM - 1:00 AM Jun8Fri Global CEO Internship Program 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sep25Tue Columbia Business School Faculty and Student Visits 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jan7Mon School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Global Leaders in Construction Management Program Visit 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Jan14Mon Columbia Business School Visit 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Feb26Tue Teachers College Visit and Discussion 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM May9Thu Center Hosts Business School Executive MBA Lecture 9:30 AM - 12:00 PM Jun21Fri Columbia – Boğaziçi Byzantine Studies and Urban Mapping Summer Program Commences 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Oct24Thu Roundtable on Social Innovation in Higher Education with Ashoka 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM Mar21Fri Pitching Workshop for Filmmakers with Prof. Ira Deutchman 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM May23Fri Growing up in a Growing Metropolis 7:00 PM - 6:00 PM May23Fri Growing up in a Growing Metropolis 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Oct10Fri Istanbul MBA Information Session 6:30 PM - 8:30 PM Oct25Sat Turkish-American Entrepreneurs in Science, Engineering and Finance 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jan2Fri Kraft Global Fellows Turkey Trip 10:00 AM - 10:00 PM Jan19Mon Business School Students Meet Prof. Soli Özel and Endeavor Turkey 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jan21Wed Columbia Berlin Consortium Students Explore Migration Dynamics 3:00 PM - 6:00 PM Jun11Thu Workshop on De-Provincializing Soft Power: Perspectives from Turkey 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jun8Mon Summer Training Program: Historical Dialogue and Dealing with the Past 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jun13Mon Summer Training Program: Historical Dialogue and Dealing with the Past 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Jul25Mon Public Conversation with Columbia Students, Summer 2016 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Jun16Thu Columbia-Boğaziçi Summer Program in Balkan Transcultural Studies 9:00 PM - 6:00 PM May22Tue Film Screening and Talk: The Drowning - A Psychological Thriller Directed by Bette Gordon 6:30 PM - 9:00 PM Jun13Thu Navigating Ethics, Trauma, and Risk in Oral History Anarad Hığutyun Binası Papa Roncalli Sk. No: 128 Harbiye 34373 Şişli İstanbul 10:00 AM - 3:00 PM Jan16Thu "Misafir" Screening & Discussion with Director Andaç Haznedaroğlu Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul Sıraselviler Cad. No:49 Yeni Hayat Apt. Kat:2 D:5 Beyoğlu 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Jul1Wed Digitizing K12 Education: Capturing the COVID-19 Experience and Imagining the Future Zoom Webinar 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM Aug17Mon Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students Zoom 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Jan16Sat Building Blocks Alumni Reunion 8:00 PM - 9:00 PM Aug9Mon Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM Sep15Wed Bodies, Technologies, Spaces 6:00 PM - 7:30 PM Oct20Wed Politics of Archaeology II 6:00 PM - 7:30 PM Nov17Wed Rules of Science 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM Mar23Wed Reading, Commenting, and Interpreting | Voices of Emerging Scholars 7:00 PM - 7:30 PM Show Map Go to Website Register on CU Events Register Add to Calendar Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo There are no events to show with the selected date. There are no events to show.See current events Filter Events By Keyword filter: Show all dates Past Events All past events Our Education News June 02, 2021 Voices of Emerging Scholars Webinar Series Tags Istanbul EducationIstanbul Public December 02, 2020 Qualitative Methods in Migration and Health Research: A Training Workshop for Early Career Researchers Tags Istanbul Education September 23, 2020 Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students Our annual social entrepreneurship workshop organized in collaboration with Columbia University’s Building Blocks was held between August 17 and 21, 2020. Tags Istanbul PublicIstanbul Education More News Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close