Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Role of Education in the 21st Century Events Past Event The Role of Education in the 21st Century Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 19, 2019 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing If 20th century was all about industrialization and dawn of the information age, 21st century is when we capitalize on these wonderful innovations to create a more inclusive and just world for human kind. This century is already bringing about a dramatic shift towards more digitization and universal connectedness via Artificial intelligence and other technologies. People around the world will have to reinvent themselves quite often if they would like to stay relevant in the workforce. Most of the professions, as we know them now, will offer no employment anymore or at least will require entirely new and dynamic set of skills in the employees. 20th century saw a rapid globalization that touched every aspect of our daily lives. After the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 though, we have become more inward and there is a trust deficit among nations of the world. In the present uncertain and ever-changing geopolitical environment, what role can education play to build bridges and further the cause of humans collectively? On June 19, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing in collaboration with OPAD Group invites you to the eighth panel discussion of the Center's Education Panel Series, entitled "The Role of Education in the 21st Century". Through our panel of eminent experts, we will be able to touch upon important roles education will assume going forward in the 21st century. Speakers Graham Turner, Academic Principal, RDFC ICC (High School Affiliated to Renmin University of China) In a career spanning 40 years in education, Graham has taught in schools in the UK, Canada, USA and China. For most of his teaching career he has held posts of significant responsibility and leadership. Before working in China he was a Principal in a High School in the north of England for 9 years. Graham's journey in China began in Ningbo where he was a school Principal for 2 years, before being appointed as a Deputy Director for Dipont Education based in Shanghai. With regard to the latter he had specific responsibility for all of the Dipont A Levels and IB schools. Graham is a great believer in distributed leadership and management within schools, not least as a powerful driver for change and ongoing school improvement. Graham will soon take up a position at Sunderland University in the UK, with some responsibility for teaching training in Asia, and China specifically. Alfonso Reina, Assistant Professor, New York Institute of Technology, Nanjing Dr. Reina earned his Bachelor's degree in Applied Physics at Tecnologico de Monterrey in Mexico, and later received his PhD in Materials Science and Engineering from MIT, where he researched methods to fabricate carbon nanomaterials for electronics. After earning his PhD, he was a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University. He has worked in Asia for the last six years in international education setting, including both high school and undergraduate programs. Joey Yang, High-school student from The High School Affiliated to Renmin University of China Joey is the Executive President of China Youth P.P.E. (Philosophy, Politic and Economic) Convention. He is the Honorary President of Beijing Middle-School Film, Television, and Media Alliance. He is also the Vice President of RDFZ Student Union, and the Vice President of Beijing Middle School Public Speaking Alliance. He has published the philosophical monograph Chinese Culture and The Common Value of Peace for Humanity at a young age of 16. Agenda 6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Registration 7:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. Panel discussion / Q&A 8:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Networking opportunity Notice The event will be in English. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close