Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home New Frontier in Earth Science Program New Frontier in Earth Science Program The New Frontier in Earth Science Program (NFES) provides participants with an intensive, “hands-on” course focusing on the key issues in climate change, how scientists conduct climate studies, how the public interprets scientific results, and how the international community responds to climate and environmental threats. Overview Global environmental threats have become part of our everyday life. It is essential that we have a clear understanding of the functioning of Earth’s natural systems and how humans are influencing them. This college introductory course in Earth Science provides fundamental knowledge on Earth climate system and Environmental Sciences, which focuses on two topics: climate change and sea level rise, as well as environmental pollutions and restorations. The course also introduces the newest scientific advancements associated with various covered topics, emphasizing key scientific methodologies such as experimental, observational and modeling approaches. The course consists of lectures, case studies, in-class discussion, and independent research. This interdisciplinary course seeks to develop students' knowledge to better understand the connections between human activities and climate change, the impact of economic developments on the environment, as well as society’s efforts on restoring the planet earth and the local living environment. Students will be given an opportunity to conduct independent research and produce research papers at the end of the course. NFES is a global initiative whose mission is to enhance earth science and ecosystem knowledge in China through education and mentorship. Our programs educate and train young aspiring earth scientist candidates to become the protectors of the earth and contributors with fundamental knowledge in Earth's climate system and Environmental Sciences. Instructor Xiaojun Yuan, Ph.D. Lamont Research Professor Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University Professor Xiaojun Yuan has engaged in studies of variability of the Antarctic atmosphere-ocean-sea ice system and its role in global climate since 1995. Her research has progressed from the identification of polar-global linkages, expanded to an ENSO-Antarctic Dipole teleconnection mechanism study, and finally resulted in an Antarctic sea ice forecast. At the same time, she has utilized space-born scatterometer observations and developed a series of studies focused on air-sea interactions on synoptic time scales, ranging from cyclone-sea ice interaction, high wind evaluations to satellite enhanced cyclone statistics in the Southern Ocean. With the accumulation of knowledge regarding climate variability in the atmosphere, sea ice and at the air-sea interface, an understanding of the ocean’s role in the mid-high latitudes climate system becomes increasingly important. However, this task is much more challenging because of sparse observations in the Southern Ocean. In recent years, she has developed a few oceanic field programs to advance our knowledge of how the polar ocean plays out in the climate system. For more information, please click here. Expand all Collapse all 2019 NFES in Shenzhen Target Students High school or junior high school students (age 15 and 19) who are interested in earth science Date July 9 - July 18, 2019 (ten days of teaching) Location 303, Sea World Culture & Arts Center, Shenzhen（深圳海上世界文化艺术中心303） Application Requirements NFES application form Phone interview might be required for admission How to Apply To apply for the program, please click here to download the application form. Please send your application form to [email protected] after you complete; Recommendation letter is preferred. Please also send your recommendation letter to the email address we provide; The application deadline is June 22, 2019; however, application will be closed once we recruit enough students; If you have any questions, please contact us via [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Class Feedback “Two weeks in New Frontiers in Earth Science triggered my interests in environmental issues and prepared my self for college life. I couldn't be more excited that I've got admitted to UC Berkeley with a major in Environmental Science. ” -- Yuzhi GUO, Student, 2018, admitted by UC Berkeley "Professor Yuan is a great teacher with patience and passion, I will not forget the days I spent writing paper and essays. They really made me feel more mentally prepared for college. Now I have been admitted by some universities and my final choice is UCSD." -- Yining ZHANG, Student, 2018, admitted by University of California San Diego "It's been great and wonderful experience learning from you and with you. Before I attended this course, climate change seemed so far away and shamefully, I even suspected the truth of global warming. But once diving into this class, I realized that I'd always been taking everything for granted. And that Hockey Stick Curves of CO2 emission in recent years really shocked me. It's like you know there is a monster outside your house but you just choose to ignore it because you never come out to the street. It's not until one day you open the door and step out that you could see this monster in flesh. And this 12-day course is the door, leading me to the 'inconvenient truth'. " -- Yaru HOU, Student, 2018 "This course builds connection between knowledge and life. It helps students realize that global warming is closely related to us. Through the guidance and instruction of Professor Yuan, students can understand that knowledge is the summary of life and is used to solve real life problems. This course is indeed a valuable opportunity for students to learn with top students all over the country." -- Zhiyu GUO, Parent, 2018 Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: NFES at the Beijing Center Slide 2: NFES at the Beijing Center Slide 3: NFES at the Beijing Center Previous Next Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close