Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home A Conversation with Steven Pan CBS ’88: Turning Adversity Into Opportunity Events Past Event A Conversation with Steven Pan CBS ’88: Turning Adversity Into Opportunity Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo October 8, 2021 8:00 AM - 9:00 AM Online Time: Oct. 8, 8:00 AM - 9:00 AM (Beijing) | Oct. 7, 8:00 PM - 9:00 PM (New York) Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and the Jerome A. Chazen Institute for Global Business at Columbia Business School invite you to a very special event with Steven Pan CBS '88, executive chairman of the Silks Hotel Group and FIH Corporation in Taipei, the leading publicly traded hotel company in Taiwan. What you'll learn: How he navigated multiple world threats, including 9/11, the SARS epidemic, the global financial crisis of 2007-08, and the current pandemic. Why he has immersed himself in the Young Presidents Organization community and entrepreneurs around the world. How early, personal influences — family, mentors, and schools (especially CBS!) contributed to his philosophy and success in business. This event is part of the Sir Gordon Wu Distinguished Speaker Forum. Co-sponsored by the Greater China Society, a regional student club at Columbia Business School. Speaker S. Steven Pan is the Executive Chairman of Silks Hotel Group and the listed FIH Corporation in Taipei, which is the leading listed hospitality company in Taiwan. Silks Group consists of 4 hotel brands including international luxury Regent, cultural luxury Silks Place, hot spring resort Wellspring, and boutique hotel JUSTSLEEP brands. FIH is the owner and developer of Group's flagship Regent Taipei Hotel and Regent Galleria, the first luxury hotel and retail mixed-use complex in Asia. The Group also manages Regent branded residences and listed Real Estate Investment Trust (REITs) in Taiwan. Steven joined FIH in 1991 and was appointed President in 1992. In 2000, he led a management buyout of the controlling stake in FIH and subsequently became its Chairman. In 2010, FIH acquired the Regent luxury hotel business: the iconic luxury brand in Asia created by legendary hotelier Mr. Robert Burns. In 2018, FIH formed a joint venture with Intercontinental Hotel Group to further expand the Regent brand internationally. Steven also founded Pacific Resources Group in 1994 which has become one of the leading international real estate investors in the San Francisco Bay Area and throughout the world. The Group has completed major real estate transactions such as the corporate headquarters of Chevron and Apple computers. Steven frequently speaks in various international conferences such as Forbes and appears on CNBC, Bloomberg to discuss business trends and leadership. He was the Taiwan winner of the E&Y Entrepreneurs Award. He was the former chair of the Young President Organization (YPO) chapter in Taiwan and continues to serve on the YPO regional board in North Asia. He also serves on the Board of Overseers for the Columbia Business School and was the former chair of both the Columbia and UC Berkeley Alumni Clubs in Taiwan. He is the founder of SR PAN cultural and educational foundation. Steven obtained a BA in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1986 and an MBA from Columbia Business School in 1988. Prior to joining FIH in 1991, he was an Associate at First Boston. Moderator Lulu C. Wang is the CEO and Chair of Tupelo Capital Management, which she founded in 1998 for hedge fund partnerships, and transitioned into a family office in 2008. Prior to that, Ms. Wang was a director and executive vice president of Jennison Associates Capital Corporation for 10 years. While at Jennison, she managed billion-dollar funds for pension, endowment, and mutual funds. She joined Jennison Associates in 1988, after serving as senior vice president and managing director at Equitable Capital Management for 10 years. Ms. Wang serves on the boards of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Rockefeller University, the Asia Society, and Columbia Business School, where she endowed the Lulu C. Wang Senior Asian Scholar program under the Chazen Institute for Global Business, which she co-chairs. She also serves on the advisory council for Bank of America Private Bank, is a retired director of MetLife Insurance, a former board member of The Committee of 100, and a trustee emerita of Wellesley College, where she was the commencement speaker in 2016. Ms. Wang has been honored for her professional achievements by New York Public Radio, Columbia Women in Business, China Institute, Girls Inc., the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Rockefeller University, the Asia Society, the Women's Economic Round Table, and Ernst and Young. Ms. Wang earned an MBA from Columbia Business School and a BA in English literature from Wellesley College. In her free time, she and her husband collect and race vintage cars. They also collect American paintings, furniture, and folk art. Reminders Event language: English If you have any questions, please email Chazen Institute at [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close