Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home APHREA-DST Announcement Partners and Stakeholders Workshop Events Past Event APHREA-DST Announcement Partners and Stakeholders Workshop Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 4, 2022 5:30 AM - 10:00 AM Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi We are pleased to share the news with you that APHREA-DST (Advancing Public Health Research in Eastern Africa through Data Science Training) has been selected for funding (now actually funded) by the U.S. National Institutes for Health (NIH). Our project is part of the NIH program Harnessing Data Science for Health Discovery and Innovation in Africa (DS-I Africa). The APHREA-DST (Advancing Public Health Research in Eastern Africa through Data Science Training) project funded by the U.S. National Institutes for Health (NIH) will create new training programs in public health data science at the University of Nairobi in Kenya and Addis Ababa University in Ethiopia. The program goals include: The development of sustainable MS programs, Faculty mentoring programs, Short-term training programs for a wide spectrum of trainees, including from partnering governmental and non-governmental stakeholders and the private sector. The initiative will be carried out in collaboration with the Data Science Institute and Department of Statistics at Columbia University, Schools of Public Health and Information Science at Addis Ababa University in Ethiopia, and the Schools of Public Health and School of Mathematics at University of Nairobi in Kenya. The Columbia Global Center in Nairobi will serve as a regional hub for key grant-related activities. Training efforts will leverage ongoing research projects led by team members or affiliated partners on environmental health, exposure assessment, remote satellite data, occupational exposures, climate change, infectious diseases, health surveillance, and health system monitoring and evaluation, which will be used as immersion opportunities to enable hands-on experience with new data science techniques for trainees Expand all Collapse all Program Moderator Isabelle A. Zaugg Isabelle A. Zaugg, PhD holds the role of Program Manager at DSI, overseeing several collaborative and interdisciplinary programs. Dr. Zaugg is Program Director for the NIH-funded APHREA-DST project, a partnership between Columbia University, Addis Ababa University, and University of Nairobi. APHREA-DST stands for Advancing Public Health Research in Eastern Africa through Data Science Training. The project is focused on developing a slate of training programs in public health data science at AAU and UofN, including new MS programs, faculty development, and short-term trainings. Dr. Zaugg’s role in this project draws on her years of experience in project development, research, and instruction in Ethiopia, including two Fulbright Fellowships at Addis Ababa University. Dr. Zaugg is also part of the Collaboratory at Columbia leadership team. A partnership between DSI and Columbia Entrepreneurship, the Collaboratory supports the development of innovative, interdisciplinary curricula that embed data science into more traditional domains or the reverse, embed business, policy, cultural, and ethical topics into data science curricula. Named a Collaboratory Fellow in 2018, Dr. Zaugg has developed cross-disciplinary coursework focused on developing improved digital supports for under-served languages. Shifting into an administrative role in 2019 (at the time a Postdoctoral Research Scientist), Dr. Zaugg leads an ongoing assessment of the outcomes and impacts of the Collaboratory, and also develops programming to strengthen the community of Collaboratory Fellows. Dr. Zaugg has been a member of the DSI Data Science Education Working Group since 2020, where she helped to launch DSI’s Best Data Science Student Course Project Competition in 2021. Dr. Zaugg is also a communication scholar and filmmaker who studies language and culture, media, and digital technologies in the public sphere. Her research investigates the relationship between gaps in support for digitally-disadvantaged languages and patterns of mass extinction of language diversity. A primary focus has been studying the digital history and online vitality of the East African languages that utilize the Ethiopic script. Her research addresses the extent to which the script and its languages are supported in the digital sphere, including tracing the history of its inclusion in Unicode. Dr. Zaugg has proposed policy, governance, and advocacy solutions to better support digitally-disadvantaged languages, in turn supporting their long-term survival. She also addresses the risks of surveillance and the need for robust content moderation for digitally-disadvantaged languages as they move up the ladder of “full stack” digital support. Additionally, she researches and innovates within transdisciplinary collaborative approaches to tech justice education. Dr. Zaugg holds an Adjunct Lectureship at Columbia’s Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, where she was a Mellon-Sawyer Postdoctoral Fellow in Global Language Justice from 2017-2019. Dr. Zaugg holds a PhD in Communication and MA in Film & Video from American University in Washington, D.C. She holds a BA in Art Semiotics from Brown University, and is an alumna of the United World College of the Adriatic. She hails from the San Luis Valley of Southern Colorado, and calls New York City and Addis Ababa home. Expand all Collapse all Program Partners and Stakeholders Prof Kiros Berhane Dr. Berhane is the Cynthia and Robert Citron-Roslyn and Leslie Goldstein Professor and Chair to the Department of Biostatistics at the Mailman School of Public Health, and now has a Joint appointment with the EHS Department. Prior to joining Columbia in 2020, Dr. Berhane was a Professor of Preventive Medicine and Head of the Epidemiology/Biostatistics Program at the University of Southern California’s (USC) Keck School of Medicine. Prof. Patrick Weke Prof. Patrick Weke is a professor in the department of mathematics at the University of Nairobi. His research interests are on: Actuarial Science, Financial Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics Prof. Rahel Bekele Associate Professor at School of Information Science, Addis Ababa University. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close