skip to the content EY Homepage Search Open search Close search Open Navigation Menu Close Navigation Menu Insights Insights Asking the better questions that unlock new answers to the working world's most complex issues. Explore Trending topics Technology Transformation Long-term value Sustainability Trust Purpose Audit quality Learn more Trending topics C-suite agendas CEO CFO Operations leaders Technology leaders EY Center for Board Matters See more C-suite agendas Back Insights Services Services EY helps clients create long-term value for all stakeholders. Enabled by data and technology, our services and solutions provide trust through assurance and help clients transform, grow and operate. Explore Strategy by EY-Parthenon Strategy by EY-Parthenon Corporate and growth strategy Digital business strategy Restructuring and turnaround strategy Strategy consulting Transaction strategy and execution Explore Strategy by EY-Parthenon Close Strategy by EY-Parthenon Consulting Consulting Analytics consulting services Customer experience Cybersecurity, strategy, risk, compliance and resilience Digital transformation Risk consulting services Supply chain and operations Technology transformation Transformation platform Explore Consulting Close Consulting People and workforce People and workforce Change management and experience HR transformation Integrated workforce mobility Learning and development consulting Recognition and reward advisory Workforce analytics Explore People and workforce Close People and workforce Transactions and corporate finance Transactions and corporate finance Corporate finance Divestments and carve-outs Sustainability and ESG Services M&A advisory M&A integration M&A technology and tools M&A advanced analytics Capital allocation Value creation, preservation and recovery Explore Transactions and corporate finance Close Transactions and corporate finance Assurance Assurance Audit services Climate change and sustainability services Financial accounting advisory services Forensic and integrity services Private client audit experience AccountingLink Explore Assurance Close Assurance Tax Tax Tax planning Tax function operations Tax policy and controversy Global trade Tax accounting Tax compliance Transaction tax Private tax services Americas tax policy Explore Tax Close Tax EY Private EY Private EY Private client experience Audit services: Designed for private Tax services: Designed for private Family Enterprise Business Services Family Office Advisory Services IPO, SPACs and direct listings Entrepreneurship Venture capital Explore EY Private Close EY Private Legal Legal Corporate and commercial law Digital law Labor and employment law Legal operations Transaction law Explore Legal Close Legal Technology Technology Advanced technology Audit technology Tax technology Connected capital technologies Technology transformation Alliances and ecosystems EY wavespace Explore Technology Close Technology Managed services Managed services Tax managed services Finance managed services Risk managed services Legal managed services Explore Managed Services Close Managed services Spotlight Strategy, transaction and transformation consulting Technology transformation Tax function operations Climate change and sustainability services Audit Supply chain and operations Explore Managed Services Spotlight Back Services Industries Industries Discover how EY insights and services are helping to reframe the future of your industry. Explore Advanced manufacturing Consumer products and retail Energy and resources Financial services Government and public sector Health sciences and wellness Private equity Real estate, hospitality and construction Technology, media and telecommunications Case studies Consulting How blockchain helped a gaming platform become a game changer Deep Ghumman Consulting How to use IoT and data to transform the economics of a sport Robin Hutchinson Strategy and Transactions M&A strategy helped a leading Nordic SaaS business grow Eric Sanschagrin Back Industries Careers Careers We bring together extraordinary people, like you, to build a better working world. Explore What you can do here What it's like to work here How to join us Alumni Job search Spotlight Experienced professionals MBA and advanced-degree students Students and entry-level professionals Contract workers EY-Parthenon careers Back Careers About us About us At EY, our purpose is building a better working world. The insights and services we provide help to create long-term value for clients, people and society, and to build trust in the capital markets. Explore Our purpose Our values Our people Newsroom Locations Connect with us Spotlight EY is now carbon negative Carmine Di Sibio How do you move long-term value creation from ambition to action? Carmine Di Sibio Our commitment to audit quality Back About us Search Open search Close search My EY My EY Open country language switcher Close country language switcher Select your location Close country language switcher No search results have been found Local sites See all results in Search Page Close search No results have been found Recent searches See all results for Topics General People Trending The CEO Imperative: How will the shifting world order affect your global strategy? 12 May 2022 Geostrategy How will the metaverse change our behavior as it reshapes experiences? 22 Apr 2022 Strategy by EY-Parthenon The CIO Imperative: Is your technology moving fast enough to realize your ambitions? 22 Apr 2022 Consulting Welcome to EY United States (EN) You are visiting EY United States (EN) The CEO Imperative: How will the shifting world order affect your global strategy? Play video Geostrategy The CEO Imperative: How will the shifting world order affect your global strategy? International business models will persist in the emerging multipolar world, but they will need to adapt to new geopolitical realities. Trending now How will the metaverse change our behavior as it reshapes experiences? The potential impacts of the metaverse on human behavior are yet unknown, but behavioral economics can help us explore the possibilities. Learn more The CIO Imperative: Is your technology moving fast enough to realize your ambitions? Data centricity is a top priority for businesses. We identify the potential benefits this brings and steps you must take to unlock value. Learn more How health care, retail and tech can work together to change how we eat Eating healthy can be hard. Health care, food retail and technology companies can radically change the food ecosystem and support consumers in their journey to develop healthier eating habits to improve health outcomes. Learn more Our commitment to audit quality We embrace our responsibility as independent auditors to perform high-quality audits that promote trust and confidence in the capital markets. Find out more Case Study The better the question The better the answer The better the world works Case Study Case study: How smart technology helped Fiserv accelerate M&A strategy Multi-billion-dollar mergers are fraught with complexity, but smart digital platforms can accelerate your deal strategy from design to delivery. Case Study The better the question The better the answer The better the world works Case Study How do you merge two financial services players? Market consolidation brings scale and innovation by streamlining online payments. Fintech companies specializing in online payment solutions have been essential support for banks, credit unions and businesses. But, they have tended to build dominance in one link of the financial payment transaction chain. Until a year ago, First Data, a global merchant acquiror, was operating in some 100 countries, providing point-of-sale and online payment solutions for large and small businesses. Fiserv was one of the leading US account processors for banks, with over 37% of US market share in the years prior to the merger.1 With combined revenues of US$13 billion, these companies had grown both organically and through acquisitions to develop their offerings across the payment processing chain. They’d built up capabilities in risk management and credit and debt issuing. The question was, could they be brought together to unlock additional value, provide a better service to customers and accelerate their growth as an integrated asset? The leaders of both Fiserv and First Data were convinced that their companies would be stronger together, by providing their clients with a holistic payment solution. The underlying logic for the deal — a set of complementary capabilities and complementary clients — was compelling on paper. But grafting together two complex businesses in US$40 billion enterprise value acquisition with over 45,000 employees is a notoriously difficult undertaking. In addition to this, Fiserv made an external commitment to achieve US$900 million in cost synergies and $500 million in revenue synergies within the first five years following the close of the transaction. The achievement of these synergies would be integral to the success of the deal, as the company announced it would invest an additional US$500 million in an ambitious growth and innovation agenda. The leadership and enablement of the synergy program largely fell upon Fiserv’s finance organization, who was charged with spearheading this effort. Documenting and rolling up dozens upon dozens of cost and revenue synergy initiatives into a structured, repeatable monthly rhythm, where progress could be tracked and measured, was no easy task. Chris Dichiara, Vice President and Head of Financial Planning and Analysis for Fiserv, was asked to lead this program for the company. So, how could these two companies leverage technology to realize the financial benefits and joint vision of this transformational merger? How EY can help Mergers and acquisitions integration services We work with clients to integrate acquired assets that prevent value erosion, help accelerate synergy realization and minimize transaction risk. Read more Case Study The better the question The better the answer The better the world works Case Study A single goal, enabled by an advanced digital platform Consolidating multiple data-points would have taken years without EY Capital Edge. “Early on in the merger, I tried to use Excel,” recalls Chris Dichiara. “But piecing together hundreds of Excel files, figuring out what was happening in each of the hundreds of initiatives, getting visibility over the process — workstreams, financial data, roadmaps, milestones — it didn’t work out so well.” The EY team who led the post-merger integration recommended their end-to-end digital platform, EY Capital Edge, to bring all this complexity into a streamlined solution. Fiserv was able to fully tailor the EY Capital Edge tool to best meet their needs. The tool provided a monthly package which provided all the reporting and insights necessary to keep the new organization on track to meet their synergy targets and execute upon the overall M&A strategy. The platform kept everyone — from the individual initiative owners to the Fiserv executive leadership team — aligned, provided instant visibility across the whole process, and ensured everyone was talking from the same numbers: it brought efficiency to chaos. “EY Capital Edge was fluid, flexible, cloud-based and easy-to-access,” says Dichiara. “Bringing in EY and EY Capital Edge to help organize the process really accelerated the deal. We’ve got over 100 people on the platform today: all our teams use it. I see the same data being used in one of our business units as in Corporate where I sit.” A merger of this size encompassing hundreds of solutions, millions of clients and billions of data points, requires “an entire organizational effort,” says Dichiara. The EY team were “there the next week,” putting together the process, instituting controls, and “being innovative in the way they were thinking,” he says. “They built connections internally with us and were extremely flexible…helping us take the Capital Edge tool and really integrate it into our existing financial planning and budgeting processes.” The EY organization did more than provide a flexible digital solution: they got under the skin of the company, bringing a broad range of experience in where it was needed, helping deliver on the strategy. Critical to Dichiara personally was having absolute confidence in the financials. “We had no room for error,” he says, “and using EY Capital Edge… gave me 100% comfort in signing off on the numbers.” The newly combined company, now called Fiserv, is already outperforming its initial targets. Within 8 months following deal close, the US$900 million cost synergy target was increased to US$1.2 billion and on the revenue side, “we’ve already upped that target to US$600 million,” says Dichiara. With the help of EY Capital Edge, Fiserv is well on its way to achieving all its external commitments and most importantly, as Dichiara reflects, “the integration has come together in a way that we're that we're winning in [our] clients’ offices.” The merged Fiserv is efficiently cross-selling capabilities to its clients, providing a seamless, globally-integrated payment solution that is delivering additional value to its customers. How EY can help M&A tools: Connected Capital Technologies EY teams offer a suite of M&A technologies designed to bring deeper analysis and faster insights throughout the transaction lifecycle. Read more Case Study The better the question The better the answer The better the world works Case Study A holistic payment solution, backed by a single technology platform EY Capital Edge helped accelerate this merger and it continues to support the strategy Chris Dichiara is clear that EY Capital Edge accelerated and simplified the process of the merger between First Data and Fiserv: it was “certainly instrumental in helping us execute on the deal.” But even after the deal was done, the tool is an invaluable aid to running the new enterprise. “We took our financial hierarchies, our business structures, our functional structures, and put them into the tool,” he says. “We linked it in with our ERP system and ..., eighteen months after the deal, our execution plans are kind of just working. It's embedded within everything we do, from a finance side but also a business side and it really has become part of the financial architecture of the company.” How EY can help Digital M&A framework From portfolio transformation, mergers and acquisitions (M&A), JVs and alliances to divestments, we help you determine the right strategic course to a digital future and create better value for your businesses. Read more EY Capital Edge was fluid, flexible, cloud-based and easy-to-access. Bringing in EY teams and EY Capital Edge to help organize the process really accelerated the deal. Chris Dichiara Vice President and Head of Financial Planning and Analysis, Fiserv A leading platform that can flex to accommodate a company’s financial, business and ERP structures and systems can continue to provide value post-merger, not just for the company, but for their clients too. The story starts with a bold strategy, but it comes alive through successful execution. Show article references#Hide article references 1. Statista (subscription required), https://www.statista.com/statistics/612431/bank-core-processor-companies-usa-by-market-share/, accessed June 2021. Related articles Show more Show less Previous Next Contact us Like what you’ve seen? Get in touch to learn more. email . Supporting organizations across sectors (9) Financial Services Featured: How financial institutions can win the battle for trust Discover Health care industry insights Featured: How health care, retail and tech can work together to change how we eat Discover Government & Public Sector Consulting Featured: How to engage neurodivergent talent in the government workforce Discover Consumer Products & Retail Featured: How health care, retail and tech can work together to change how we eat Discover Energy & Resources Featured: How oil and gas sector analysts’ view Q4 2021 earnings Discover Technology, Media & Entertainment, and Telecommunications Featured: How alerting employees to unintended tax traps helps companies, too Discover Real Estate, Hospitality & Construction Consulting Services Featured: How can your workplace be as flexible as your workforce? Discover Advanced Manufacturing Services Featured: Creating people-centric future factories Discover Private Equity Services Featured: Will seeing what lies beyond bring new opportunities into focus? Discover Direct to your inbox Stay up to date with our Editor's Picks newsletter. Subscribe Featured press releases TCPI Honors Barbara Angus at Annual Symposium Angus is the 12th Recipient of TCPI Pillar of Excellence Award 31 May 2022 Washington, DC US EY Acquires Unemployment Insurance and Tech Innovator Us4U As the environmental, social and governance (ESG) landscape rapidly evolves, financial professional involvement will likely play a key role in the next phase of the ESG reporting process, according to How finance professionals are helping to advance ESG reporting 23 May 2022 New York US More press releases New report shows strong level of involvement by finance professionals in ESG reporting efforts As the environmental, social and governance (ESG) landscape rapidly evolves, financial professional involvement will likely play a key role in the next phase of the ESG reporting process, according to How finance professionals are helping to advance ESG reporting 17 May 2022 EY Announces Entrepreneur Of The Year® 2022 Bay Area Finalists Ernst & Young LLP (EY US) today announced the finalists for the Entrepreneur Of The Year® 2022 Bay Area Award. 9 May 2022 EY Announces Entrepreneur Of The Year® 2022 Mountain West Finalists Ernst & Young LLP (EY US) today announced the finalists for the Entrepreneur Of The Year® 2022 Mountain West Award. 9 May 2022 Visit the newsroom Feed Join EY in conversation Share your views Discover more EY search Popular quick links Careers Technology Tax COVID-19 Audit Strategy Consulting Megatrends Sustainability Next Insights Connect with us Our locations Careers Webcasts My EY Site map California: Privacy | Do Not Sell My Personal Information Legal and privacy Accessibility EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube EY | Assurance | Consulting | Strategy and Transactions | Tax About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, consulting, strategy and transactions, and tax services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2020 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG/OC/FEA no. ED MMYY This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. Welcome to EY.com In addition to cookies that are strictly necessary to operate this website, we use the following types of cookies to improve your experience and our services: Functional cookies to enhance your experience (e.g. remember settings), Performance cookies to measure the website's performance and improve your experience, Marketing/Targeting cookies which are set by third parties with whom we execute marketing campaigns and allow us to provide you with content relevant to you. You may withdraw your consent to cookies at any time once you have entered the website through a link in the privacy policy, which you can find at the bottom of each page on the website. Review our cookie policy for more information. Customize cookies I decline optional cookies I accept all cookies