Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Themes Entrepreneurship and Youth Entrepreneurship and Youth Rapid change and uncertainty have become an increasing feature of global realities. What does the future look like for the world’s young people who will inherit the burdens of global climate change, political polarizations, and wide-spread economic and health disparity as well as the promises and dilemmas of digital technologies and global interconnectedness? The Middle East and North Africa is one of the most youthful regions in the world, with a median age of 22 years. With nearly 60% of the population in many countries under 25 years old, the nature of the region must rapidly develop to meet the demands countries will face in coming decades. The MENA region’s youth have the potential to become agents of change and contribute to a more prosperous and stable future for themselves and their communities. Unleashing this potential, however, requires a robust investment in the creation of meaningful learning and engagement opportunities. Columbia Global Centers | Amman runs a number of initiatives that aim to promote and advance youth leadership development in Jordan and the wider region. Through talks and interactive workshops, participants learn how to turn their personal interests and hobbies into careers or businesses, develop specific skills, and inspire, influence, and motivate others to encourage effective leadership. With the support of a number of Columbia schools and campus partners, the Amman Center has been able to generate successful education and entrepreneurial activities in various parts of the region. Fostering Entrepreneurship in Engineering Education in Tunisia This project aimed to strengthen the cultureof entrepreneurship in engineering education in Tunisia by introducing critical elements of an entrepreneurship curriculum and training faculty to become entrepreneurship educators and coaches to increase opportunities for student learning. It was recognized as one of the more successful university partnership projects for its efforts in strengthening collaboration between public and private higher education institutions, and for the establishment of partnerships between public engineering schools and the start-up and business community. As a result, the initiative was scaled up to include the participation of 100 universities from across Tunisia, in addition to being expanded to Morocco and potentially elsewhere in the region. The program has helped foster a collaborative ecosystem to support entrepreneurial activities in the Tunisian context by increasing the number of certified coaches and embedding the ideation process in local universities. Primarily, the program supported interdisciplinary founding teams comprised of Tunisian students through two stages of a national open start-up competition in Tunisia and prepared them to compete in the technology track of the Columbia Venture Competition. These students were connected to a global network of entrepreneurs from Columbia University and in New York. Overall, the program trained nearly 300 students. The project is organized in partnership with Columbia University’s School of Engineering and Applied Science, Columbia Business School, Open Start- up Tunisia, and Columbia Global Centers | Tunis, and was funded by a grant from the U.S. Embassy in Tunis. Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students A five-day workshop on social entrepreneurship is held each summer at the Amman Center in partnership with Building Blocks, a student-run organization working to inspire, educate, and launch the next generation of student entrepreneurs. The workshop aims to give high school students the opportunity to examine themes of gender equality, entrepreneurship, innovation, leadership, design thinking, and sustainable development. Participants learn about how entrepreneurship is changing the world and get the chance to engage with successful entrepreneurs who share their lessons as master innovators. Working in teams, students collectively design ventures and present them at the conclusion of the program. The third and fourth iterations of this program, in Summer 2020 and 2021, have been adapted to an online format. The workshop is part of the Center’s Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series inspired by the legacy of the late Soraya Salti, former President and CEO for Middle East and North Africa at INJAZ Al-Arab. Youth in a Changing World “Digital Technologies, Identity, and Belonging” Collective Drawing Youth in a Changing World is an initiative to identify current global issues of greatest concern to youth involving a series of global workshops where they discuss among themselves how their future aspirations are affecting and being affected by a rapidly changing world. The initiative is spearheaded by Vishaka Desai, Chair of the Committee on Global Thought and Senior Advisor for Global Affairs to the President of Columbia University, and works through the network of Columbia Global Centers around the world, and with local universities and youth organizations. In Jordan, local partners included The School of Graduate Studies at Jordan University and the Princess Basma Youth Resource Center. “Security and Wellbeing” Collective Drawing These workshops include focus group discussions, where local youth facilitators moderate conversations with their peers around thematic open-ended questions. Each peer-led focus group ends with a collective drawing exercise, in which they create an image around their conversation. Collective drawings offer participants freedom to play with artistic expression to shape and convey their own narratives and understandings. Conversations held so far have revealed that young people everywhere acutely feel the need for a platform to express themselves and have themselves heard and that they are able to think simultaneously in personal, local, and global terms. Related News December 10, 2021 Building Blocks Alumni Reunion Tags Istanbul February 09, 2021 Building Blocks Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students This social entrepreneurship workshop organized in collaboration with Columbia University’s Building Blocks was held between November 2 to December 7, 2020. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Public Entrepreneurship Global Themes: Business and Entrepreneurship news March 10, 2020 Artaqi Team Visits CGC Tunis March 24, 2018 The Fifth Columbia Entrepreneurship Panel Tags Beijing Press Beijing Public Beijing Research December 31, 2017 Newsletter: Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series Year 2 Based at Columbia Global Center in Amman, this initiative reaches out to young people to promote and advance youth leadership development. Four young leaders from the MENA region were hosted during the first year of the program, from November 2016 to May 2017, who spoke and interacted with fellow youth who stand to benefit from positive role models. Tags Amman Education Amman Public November 29, 2017 Columbia Institute for Ideas and Imagination Fellowship The Columbia Institute for Ideas and Imagination will open its doors in Paris in fall 2018. Its annual cohort will comprise seven Columbia University faculty fellows and seven fellows - scholars, writers and creative artists - from outside the USA. Its purpose is to question the established ways in which knowledge is defined, produced, and taught. Tags Amman Research July 23, 2017 The Tamer Center for Social Enterprise: Tamer Fund for Social Ventures The Tamer Fund for Social Ventures (“the Fund”) provides seed grants to nonprofit, for-profit, or hybrid early-stage Columbia University affiliated social and environmental ventures. Preference will be given to start-up ventures that have the potential to be financially self-sustaining in the longer term. Tags Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions June 08, 2017 President’s Global Innovation Fund 2017 Provost John H. Coatsworth has announced the fifth round of grants from the President’s Global Innovation Fund (PGIF) on June 1, 2017. 11 projects received awards this year after being selected by a review committee of senior faculty drawn from both the Morningside and medical campuses. Tags Amman Research Columbia Commitments: Arts and Ideas Columbia Commitments: Climate Response Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Columbia Commitments: Future of Neuroscience Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Columbia Commitments: Precision Medicine April 18, 2017 Higher Education for Refugees by Professor Bruce Usher and Kim Gittleson In 1940, a young refugee named Arno Penzias fled Nazi-controlled Germany and settled in New York City. He went on to study at the City College of New York and Columbia University, where he received a Ph.D. in physics in 1962. Tags Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies March 26, 2017 Columbia University Honored at 2017 Tunis International Book Fair The organizing committee of the Tunis International Book Fair announced that Columbia University in the City of New York and the Lebanese Republic will be the guests of honor for 2017. The 33rd Tunis International Book Fair takes place on March 24 - April 2 in the city of Tunis, Tunisia. The University’s participation in the book fair shows the growing ties between Columbia and Tunisia. Honored guests at previous fairs have included France and Egypt, among others. Tags Amman Education Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Arts and Ideas March 23, 2017 Columbia Global Centers | Amman 2016-2017 Annual Report is now available online Tags Amman Education Amman Research Amman Public November 10, 2016 Youth-oriented activities honour memory of Soraya Salti The Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series was launched on Wednesday with the support of Waleed Al Banawi, the founder and chairman at JISR Venture Partners Tags Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Amman Education November 06, 2016 Columbia Global Center announces Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series Columbia Global Centers — Amman, a hub for Columbia University research and educational initiatives in the Middle East and one in a network of eight global centres around the world, has announced the Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series. Tags Amman Education Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Just Societies September 21, 2016 Exploring a Region in Transition as Change Sweeps the Middle East Historic waves of migration, unprecedented digital activism, challenges to religious pluralism: amid all of these developments in the Middle East, Columbia Global Centers – Columbia University’s network of eight education and learning centers around the world – are exploring the implications of these changes on culture, health and safety, and politics in the region. Tags Amman Research Amman Education Amman Public September 13, 2016 Redefining a University’s Role for a World in Crisis NEW YORK, Sept. 13, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- "With civil conflict, terrorist threats, and major health crises causing unprecedented disruption in communities all over the world, universities must step up to a new level of globalism in our outlook and in our activities," says Professor Safwan M. Masri, Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University. Tags Amman Public Amman Education Amman Research May 31, 2016 Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series Columbia Global Centers | Amman launched a series inspired by the legacy of the late Soraya Salti, former President and CEO for Middle East and North Africa at INJAZ Al-Arab, a non-profit organization that supports youth education and training in the Arab world. Tags Amman Public Amman Education May 17, 2016 Columbia Global Centers | Amman 2015 Annual Report is now available online Tags Amman Public Amman Research Amman Education May 09, 2016 2015-2016 Speaker Series The Amman Center hosts regular public talks for members of the local community to engage with scholars and learn more about a wide range of topics, from current affairs, to history, to the arts. Tags Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Data and Society May 06, 2016 President's Global Innovation Fund 2016 Results for the fourth President’s Global Innovation Fund (PGIF) round this year were announced on May 6, 2016. Tags Amman Research Amman Public Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Data and Society April 27, 2016 Fostering Entrepreneurship in Engineering Education in Tunisia In collaboration with the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS), the Amman Center is working with engineering faculty at five leading Tunisian universities to introduce critical elements of an entrepreneurship curriculum and consult on how to build an ecosystem that will support entrepreneurial activities in the Tunisian context. Tags Amman Education Tunis Education Tunis: Fostering Entrepreneurship April 19, 2016 The New Era of Extreme Bionics - A Talk by Hugh Herr Hugh Herr is an Associate Professor of Media Arts and Sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Herr heads the Biomechatronics research group at the MIT Media Lab, which is creating bionic limbs that emulate the function of natural limbs. Tags Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Future of Neuroscience Columbia Commitments: Arts and Ideas March 11, 2016 Soraya Salti Youth For Youth Series Columbia Global Centers | Amman, a hub for Columbia University research and educational initiatives in the Middle East and one in a network of eight global centers around the world, announces the Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series. Tags Amman Education Amman Public Columbia Commitments: Just Societies March 09, 2016 Jordan: Learning From Scratch Schools are widely recognized as being on the frontline of countering violent extremism. And a campaign is now underway to push the Jordanian government to reform the nation’s education system. Tags Amman Education Columbia Commitments: Just Societies February 18, 2016 When U.S. universities export their education to the Middle East In the past two decades, there has been a significant increase in the presence of U.S. universities and colleges in the Middle East, with many elite schools setting up outposts in the GCC countries. Tags Amman Education October 08, 2015 Columbia's global center strategy prioritizes engagement over NYU's 'one-way exchange of knowledge' Columbia and New York University may both lead the pack when it comes to developing a presence abroad, but they have markedly distinct ideologies that have informed their global campus footprints. Tags Amman Education September 24, 2015 Technical Report Delivery to Family Development Foundation Given the current governmental priorities for social service development in Abu Dhabi and the United Arab Emirates, a trained cadre of professional social workers is needed in a fast growing economically, and socially evolving country to take on the multi-level roles of program design, development, implementation, evaluation and management. Tags Amman Education August 02, 2015 iSustain Initiative Awards Ceremony Columbia Global Centers | Middle East will hosted the award ceremony of the iSustain Initiative on August 2, 2015. Tags Amman Education July 15, 2015 The Jordanian Ministry of Education begins a review of textbooks and curricula As the Ministry of Education in Jordan continues the implementation of the first phase of a process aimed at developing curricula and textbooks, the views of education experts vary. Professor Safwan M. Masri, Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University, explained that the reform process of curricula seems superficial. Tags Amman Education June 01, 2015 Hard Lessons: Improving Education in the Middle East is as Important as Ending the Region’s Conflicts Safwan Masri is quoted in the second column of this viewpoint by Matt McAllester. Tags Amman Education Related Events Apr19Tue The New Era of Extreme Bionics - A Talk by Hugh Herr Columbia Global Centers | Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Nov9Wed Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series Launch with a Talk by Najla Al-Midfa - Wednesday November 9, 2016 Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Feb4Sat The Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series: Workshop series led by Tamara Abdel-Jaber 9:00 AM - 4:00 PM Mar25Sat For High School Students: Tapping into your Leadership Skills - Saturday March 25 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Apr9Sun POSTPONED: Global Entrepreneurship Course in Amman for High School Students 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Sep26Tue Soraya Salti Youth for Youth Series: Developing Emotional Intelligence for Greater Social Impact with Nadine El Asmar Columbia Global Centers | Amman 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Apr2Mon Fostering Entrepreneurship in Engineering Education in Tunisia program: Columbia Venture Competition Columbia University, New York 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Jul22Sun Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students Columbia Global Centers | Amman 9:00 AM - 3:30 PM Show Map Go to Website Register on CU Events Register Add to Calendar Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo There are no events to show with the selected date. There are no events to show.See current events Filter Events By Keyword filter: Show all dates Past Events All past events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close