Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Students Menu Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us - Student Employment Work for Us – Student Employment We’re always looking for talented NC State students to join our team in various capacities to help with programming, communications, social media and more. Summer 2022 Employment Opportunities Temporary Summer Positions (GTI) Show More INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ASSISTANT (TEMP FOR SUMMER) The purpose of this position is to provide programmatic and logistical support to existing and new GTI student and professional programs through the summer of 2022. Please apply directly on the NC State Employment website. Hourly pay: $17-22/hour based on education and previous experience Hours per week: 40 (on average); Generally 8-5 M-F; but many evening and weekend hours are likely. This position is with our sub-unit, the Global Training Initiative (GTI). Fall 2022 Employment Opportunties Work-Study Positions – GTI Show More The Federal Work-Study program provides undergraduate students the opportunity to work part-time through the University and gain valuable work experience. Only students who qualify and received a financial aid offer that included Federal Work-Study should apply for these positions. COMMUNICATIONS/DESIGN ASSISTANT We are looking for a student who is proficient with graphic design and can produce printed and digital marketing materials for our various international student and professional programs. The student will also help with the GTI’s social media channels. Email your resume, cover letter and portfolio to Ilin Misaras. If you do not have a portfolio, then please review our existing channels and send us at least 3 proposed updates, changes, content ideas you have for each channel. Hourly pay: $12 Hours per week: 10 (on average) FRONT OFFICE ASSISTANT The Global Training Initiative (GTI) is looking for a student who will help with general office duties, such as answering phone and emails, and assisting staff with other duties. Students should be proficient with the Microsoft Office and Google product suites. Hourly pay: $10 Hours per week: 10-15 (on average) This position is with our sub-unit, the Global Training Initiative (GTI). Programs Intern (graduate students) – GTI Show More We are looking for culturally competent student interns to join our team. Program interns help develop and deliver the course content for GTI students as well as coordinate and implement activities, site visits and cultural excursions for students and professionals participating in virtual and in-person GTI programs. GTI program interns earn $15/hour and are expected to work in the office (or in the field) up to 20 hours per week. Program activities typically take place during regular business hours, but some may also occur during evenings and weekends. JOB DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Help develop and deliver cross-cultural curricula, workshops, and/or content for GTI courses on U.S. American culture and business Plan and schedule cultural activities, field trips, site visits, social events, and recreation opportunities Help with airport pickups and orientations of various student, scholar and professional groups Recruitment of campus and community volunteers Transport student and professional groups when needed Help with communications and marketing of GTI programs Other duties as assigned. QUALIFICATIONS Full-time enrollment at NC State (current student) in a graduate program with good academic standing Excellent rapport with and interest in international students and other cultures Thorough familiarity with US American culture and NC State University campus resources Excellent written and verbal communication skills Ability to prioritize projects and meet deadlines Great organizational and project management skills with attention to detail Foreign language skills are not required, but helpful Please send a cover letter and resume to rcibuls@ncsu.edu to be considered for this position. This position is with our sub-unit, the Global Training Initiative (GTI). DCC Graduate Facilitator (online team teaching) – GTI Show More We are looking for culturally competent graduate students to join our existing cohort and facilitate our Developing Cultural Competence Student Certificate Program. Selected facilitators will receive training in cultural competence, diversity/equity/inclusion topics, and online facilitation to prepare for leading cohorts of student learners in our 4-week curriculum. DCC Facilitators earn $15/hour and are expected to teach 2 courses per month (meeting weekly). Courses are offered at 9:00 AM and 8:00 PM Eastern Time. JOB DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Lecture course content and facilitate conversation between participants Manage participant engagement, including taking attendance and providing feedback in Moodle LMS Manage course logistics, including coordinating Zoom meetings, grading assignments and communicating with participants and program coordinators Attend a weekly cohort meeting for regular facilitation practice and anti-oppression discussion Please send a cover letter and resume to rcibuls@ncsu.edu to be considered for this position. This position is with our sub-unit, the Global Training Initiative (GTI). Communications & Social Media Interns (undergrads) – GTI Show More We are looking for creative, motivated, and talented undergraduate student interns to join our communications and marketing team. The goal of this program is to help further develop your social media skills in a professional work environment while increasing brand awareness and engagement for the GTI across multiple platforms. You will work closely with the GTI’s communications team to develop and execute its multi-channel marketing strategy. GTI social media interns earn $12/hour and are expected to work in the office (or in the field) an average of 10 hours per week. JOB DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Create engaging and relevant content for social media, email marketing campaigns and the website. Help create program and marketing flyers and eBillboards Moderate comments across social media channels and the website Maintain and post engaging and relevant content for Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn Assist with social media analytics and reporting Help develop, execute and monitor digital marketing campaigns to recruit students for GTI programs and workshops QUALIFICATIONS Advanced knowledge of popular social media platforms from a brand perspective Excellent written and verbal communication skills Ability to prioritize projects and meet deadlines Great organizational and project management skills Willingness to attend events and participate in on- and off-campus programming in order to generate real-time content Please send a cover letter, resume and portfolio to ilin_misaras@ncsu.edu to be considered for this position. If you do not have a portfolio, then please review our existing channels and send us at least 3 proposed updates, changes, content ideas you have for each channel. This position is with our sub-unit, the Global Training Initiative (GTI). Programs Assistant (ISSERV & One-Time Events) – OIS Show More The Office of International Services is looking for a programs assistant to provide logistical and programmatic support of our signature service program (ISSERV) and various one-time events. The ideal candidate would be reliable, have strong problem solving skills and should have the ability to work effectively with people of diverse backgrounds. This position is limited to students who have a Federal Work Study award for the 2022 – 2023 Academic Year.View the full position description here. Interested individuals are encouraged to submit an application. Hourly Pay: $11/HourHours Per Week: 10 (On Average) Programs Assistant (English Conversation Club & Breaking Bread) – OIS Show More The Office of International Services is looking for a programs assistant to provide logistical and programmatic support for two of our signature service programs: English Conversation Club and Breaking Bread. The ideal candidate would be detail-oriented, innovate, and have the ability to work effectively with people of diverse backgrounds. This position is limited to students who have a Federal Work Study award for the 2022 – 2023 Academic Year.View the full position description here. Interested individuals are encouraged to submit an application. Hourly Pay: $11/HourHours Per Week: 10 (On Average) Communications Assistant – OIS Show More The Office of International Services is looking for a communications assistant to manage the office’s social media channels as well as write a monthly student spotlight feature article. The ideal candidate would have strong writing skills and has experience in creating social media content. This position is limited to students who have a Federal Work Study award for the 2022 – 2023 Academic Year. View the full position description here. Interested individuals are encouraged to submit an application. Hourly Pay: $11/HourHours Per Week: 10 (On Average) Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.