Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Consent Note for Personal Information Processing Consent Note for Personal Information Processing The Personal Information Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China (PIPL in English) is a national data privacy law that went into effect November 1st, 2021. The PIPL is designed to protect the privacy and personal information of Chinese citizens, and will require compliance initiatives on the part of Chinese organizations and foreign companies operating in China. The PIPL provides a number of rights to Chinese individuals that include the following: the Right to be Informed, the Right to be Forgotten/Erasure, and the Right to Rectification. If you have any questions or inquiries, please contact the Beijing Center’s personal information controller. Personal information controller: Beijing Columbia International Consulting Co., Ltd. (Beijing Center) Address: No. 26 1F Core Plaza, No.1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, China 100080 | Beijing Contact Info: [email protected] I. Beijing Center’s program/event If you would like to attend our program/event, you need to fill the registration form and ticking this Consent Note and/or related agreement and clicking the corresponding button. II. Collection and Use of Personal Information 1. we will collect your personal information as follows: Name Email Mobile no. School/Department Student ID Company name, address, and title 2. We will collect and use your personal information only for the following purposes: to provide you with information regarding relevant events to verify the registration details of your participation in our activities to manage the customer relationship, especially our response(s) to your request(s) When we intend to use your personal information for other purposes unspecified in the preceding paragraphs, we will seek your prior consent. 3. We will not share your personal information with a third party without your prior separate consent, unless in the following circumstances: We may share your information with our affiliated entities who are located outside of China, i.e., Columbia University (address: [●], contact info: [●]), and Columbia Global Centers LLC (address: [●], contact info: [●]), who will use your information for the purposes specified in this Consent Note. If you wish to exercise your rights under applicable laws in China against the overseas data recipients, please contact the overseas data recipients via the aforesaid contact information. We may disclose your personal information, if necessary to perform a statutory duty or obligation. 4. We will take appropriate safeguards, and technical and organizational measures to prevent any alteration of, loss of, or unauthorized access to, your information. III. Storage and Protection of Personal Information 1 In general, personal information collected and generated by us within the People’s Republic of China will be stored in the People’s Republic of China. Unless specified in this Consent Note, we will not transfer your personal information outside of China. 2. Unless otherwise required by law or agreed with you separately, we will store information for a necessary period at your request for providing the services. 3. The security of your personal information is very important to us. We will be in strict compliance with the relevant laws and regulations, and take reasonable and feasible measures as widely accepted in the industry to protect your personal information. IV. Aggregation and Consolidation of Personal Information Where you are also a user of our other business platforms of which we also act as personal information controller, in order to provide you with more optimized contents, we will aggregate and consolidate your different information obtained from different business platforms, analyze your behavior on different platforms for providing you with more comprehensive and professional services. 1. Involved business platform and personal information, including: Business platform: Official WeChat account: ColumbiaGlobalCenter Official Newsletter: [email protected] Personal information: Profile photo, Name, Gender, Region, phone No., and User behavior, such as commenting, liking, and reading articles 2. Usage and purpose of personal information: Based on the analysis of your behavior, judgements will be arrived at as to the relevant contents that you (may be) are interested in or (may) need. You will accordingly be provided with more accurate contents, such as WeChat posts, and Emails related to activities and exhibitions. If you would like to reject to be provided with contents based upon the analysis of your behavior, you may send an email notice to us via [email protected]。 V. Inquiry, Cancellation, Suggestion, and Complaint If you wish to inquire about and rectify your registration status or personal information, you may send an email to [email protected] If you wish to cancel your registration, you may send an email to [email protected] If you have any suggestions or complaints about our services, you may send an email to [email protected], we will reply to you within 10 working days upon receiving your suggestions or advice and verifying your user identity. RELATED INFORMATION Columbia University Website Cookie Notice Columbia University Privacy Notice Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close