Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Passport Services Passport Services is currently closed. We hope to reopen for appointments in summer 2022. To make an appointment at another passport acceptance facility, please click here. How Can I Get My Passport Fast? Routine service can take up to 18 weeks from the day an application is submitted to the day a new passport is received. The 18-week timeframe includes the time required for processing plus mailing time both ways: i.e. the time your *application* spends in the mail on the way to the Department of State, and the time your *passport* spends in the mail on the way to you. Expedited service (for an additional $60) can take up to 10 weeks from the day an application is submitted to the day a new passport is received. The 10-week timeframe includes time required for processing plus mailing time both ways: i.e. the time your *application* spends in the mail on the way to the Department of State, and the time your *passport* spends in the mail on the way to you. To speed up the mailing time, we strongly recommend you: Add an extra $17.56 for the Department of State to return your passport to you by 1-2 Business Day Express Mail after processing (This amount should be included in your check/money order to the US Department of State) Remember, the “processing time” begins the day they *receive* your application, not the day you submit it. We send our application to them by USPS Priority Mail. What If I Need My Passport Faster? No need to call around looking for better turnaround times – all local passport offices across the country, including every single office in North Carolina, offer the EXACT SAME processing times, including for Expedited processing. The only faster option offered by the Department of State is to get an appointment to go in person to a regional Passport Agency. Agencies are able to print passports on-site so that you can get your passport immediately. The closest agencies to us are in Washington, DC or Atlanta. It is very difficult to get one of these appointments. To try to get an appointment at an Agency, including for life or death emergencies, please see the Department of State’s official webpage: https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/get-fast.html (Please note: There are many misleading websites out there claiming to offer “expedited” services. We do not recommend any other websites or services other than the official Department of State website travel.state.gov.) What If I Am Just “Renewing” My Passport? If you are eligible to use the Renewal process, you are not required to visit an office like ours – you can renew your passport immediately yourself by mail. Just follow these instructions for Renewing your Passport on the Department of State’s official website: https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/have-passport/renew.html To decide how much your payment needs to be, here is the complete fee chart: https://travel.state.gov/content/dam/passports/forms-fees/Passport%20Fees%20Chart_TSG_JAN2021.pdf Please note: if you have travel plans that require you to pay the extra $60 fee for Expedited processing, I strongly recommend you also pay the extra $17.56 fee for 1-2 Day Delivery of your passport after processing, so that your passport is mailed to you by Express Mail at the end of processing, instead of being sent by regular US mail Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.