Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Rio Center Stories: Thais Rosa Pinheiro, CEO and Founder at Conectando Territorios Rio de Janeiro Rio Center Stories: Thais Rosa Pinheiro, CEO and Founder at Conectando Territorios By Leticia Katz November 30, 2020 “Ever since I was a child, it has bothered me to listen at school to the story of Brazilian blacks being associated with slavery, feijoada, and samba. I have always been curious about the knowledge, practices, and influences in the basic construction of Brazilian society, as our relations are directly associated with indigenous and African influence. In the 19th century, for example, the city of Rio de Janeiro had a population with more Africans than Europeans. I decided to study tourism as an undergraduate because I was interested in bringing people closer to Brazilian history and culture arising from traditional communal territories, such as quilombolas, for example, and to demystify a way of looking upon these people as unique. I wanted this other look to be recognized, and to see this culture that was not being shown.” Meet Thaís Rosa Pinheiro, CEO at Conectando Territórios and a participant in the Alliance for Historical Dialogue and Accountability (AHDA) at Columbia University. CGCRio - Hi Thais! It’s a pleasure to have you with us today! Can you start by telling us a bit about your educational background and about your work at Columbia University? Thais - Since 2010, I have been researching community-based tourism in quilombola communities and getting closer to the other issues that these communities face beyond the realm of tourism. My work combines research and practice. I am a researcher with a Master’s degree in Social Memory from Unirio in Rio de Janeiro. I have also done specialization work in Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution at Chulalongkorn in Bangkok, Thailand. At Columbia I participate in the Alliance for Historical Dialogue and Accountability (AHDA), as my work aims to form dialogues with past history and how we deal with reality in contemporary times. CGCRio - Have you always lived in Rio?? Thais - I live in Rio de Janeiro, but I lived in England in 2008 and in Thailand in 2019, where I went to study Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution in Bangkok. CGCRio - Can you tell us more about your experiences in Thailand? Thais - We traveled to the south of Thailand during a field trip and visited a small village in Baung District, a fishing community. The place and the people reminded me of the Northwest of Brazil. In Brazil we developed community-based tourism as a way to create a dialogue between communities, tourists, and society. It is a way to preserve the culture and history of these communities while generating income. In the North of Thailand, in Chian Mai, I visited the Karen community, a community of displaced persons from Myanmar (Burma) where it became clearer to me that tourism can also be a tool to gain a better understanding about communities and human rights. Peace tourism involves visits to places, at home or abroad, which are significant because of their association with such notions as peacemaking, peaceful conflict resolution, resistance to war, prevention of war, nonviolence, and reconciliation. Bangkok was the place that most impressed me, because there is such a mixture of traditional and modern culture among its people, in addition to a very rich cuisine.. CGCRio -Tell us a little about your work at Conectando Territórios? Thais - Conectando Território is a tourism agency that combines tourism and education and connects people to Afro-Brazilian history, memory and culture and to traditional communities, such as quilombolas and urban communities. We develop workshops, hold classes outside the classroom, and organize tourist experiences for Brazilians and foreigners. Visit: http://conectandoterritorios.com.br/ CGCRio - How would you describe a perfect trip to cities and countries with such different cultures? Thais - Connecting territories through peace tourism can be a wonderful way to promote positive peace around the globe. For me, the most important thing is to be free of judgments and to be open to experiencing places and people, without making comparisons. CGCRio - We know that with the pandemic tourism has become more difficult. Did you have to reinvent your work? Thais - During the pandemic, tourism was one of the most affected areas. I had to reinvent myself. For example, we developed in July 2020, the Virtual Tour of Little Africa, based upon an activity Ihad already been offering in person since 2016. I started offering it also to schools and universities. Click here to visit the instagram page. I also launched the web series entitled “Nzinga: Women Travelers” on the YouTube channel of Conectando Territories. The series brings together stories of black women who undertake their dreams and their work and expand to other places in the world. Click here to know more. CGCRio - In this very complicated moment in the world, how can we attract more visitors to Brazil and interest more people in our country? Thais - I believe that the internet allows us to get closer to other territories. the Virtual Tour appears as a possibility to bring people closer to potential tourist destinations and to learn more about the history, culture and memory of those places. CGCRio -You were selected in 2017 by the Young Leaders of the Americas Initiative (YLAI), by the US State Department. How was the process until you were selected and what was the experience like in the USA? Thais - I learned about the program a week before the registration ended. When I read the description, I thought it was exactly all I needed at that moment, because entrepreneurship can be a very lonely process. I started writing but I didn't know if I would have enough time to register in time. They extended the deadline and it was the time needed to apply. When I received an email saying that I had passed, I cried with emotion. The experience was one of the best in my life. I say that it was a watershed in my life as an entrepreneur, because other doors and possibilities for work have opened. The exchange with other entrepreneurs from countries in Latin America and the Caribbean was very rich, in addition to the exchange with a company in Miami. CGCRio - In your opinion, what makes Brazil so amazing for visitors? Thais - Our culture is very rich and diverse. Each state in Brazil has its specificities, its history, memory and culture and this is the richest thing we have. The African, indigenous influence in Brazil is very rich and is present in all elements of our society. Our cultural diversity is what we have to show the world. Tags Rio Stories Rio Stories Research Rio Stories Entrepreneurship and Business Rio Stories Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Rio Stories Education News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close