Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home Planning Columbia-Related International Travel Planning Columbia-Related International Travel All Columbia affiliates are required to comply with the International Travel Planning Policy (ITPP) and the International Travel Restrictions when conducting Columbia-related International Travel. Columbia University utilizes the Travel Risk Ratings produced by International SOS (ISOS) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to determine the pre-travel requirements for Columbia affiliates. For the country list: ISOS Travel Risk Ratings. ISOS Evacuation Status, and CDC COVID-19 Travel Health Advisories. Please note this list is updated weekly or as necessary (latest update June 1, 2022). When planning travel, verify your destination's ISOS Travel Risk rating and CDC Travel Health Advisory. Expand all Collapse all ITPP and International Travel Restrictions Travel Requirements Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Students must comply with the Undergraduate International Travel Policy which includes a separate process of the ISOS itinerary review. Graduate Students ISOS Risk Rating (ITPP Requirements) Medium-risk locations, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. High-risk locations, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS and complete the Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form for dean-level review and approval. Extreme-risk and Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation locations, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and complete the *Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form for review and approval from their dean or unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost, and for CUMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. All CU-related international travel is required to be registered in ISOS MyTrips. *Global Travel will effectuate secure written approvals once the traveler has completed the Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form. Spring and Summer 2022 International Travel Restrictions requirements For travel to countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 1 & 2, travel permitted with ISOS registration. For countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown,' dean’s approval required. See below.* All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed, as must all school-level requirements and protocols. Unvaccinated students with approved exemptions are strongly encouraged to defer international Columbia travel to countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown.' Note: You must verify your destination's ISOS Travel Risk Rating and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) COVID-19 Travel Health Advisory when planning Columbia-related international travel. You must comply with both the International Travel Planning Policy and Spring 2022 International Travel Restrictions listed above. Procedure for Graduate Students Requesting CU-Related International Travel Determine your destination's ISOS Travel Risk Rating and Evacuation Status; Determine your destination's CDC COVID-19 Travel Health Advisory Level; Follow the below applicable chart depending upon the CDC COVID-19 Travel Advisory Level: For Travel to CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown: CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS Significant or Low without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Contact your school for information on how to effectuate dean approval; then CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown AND/OR ISOS Medium without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Submit the ISOS Pre-Trip Itinerary Review form; then CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS High or Extreme; and for travel to Locations with an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Submit the ISOS Pre-Trip Itinerary Review form; then CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS Significant or Low without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Register your trip in ISOS MyTrips after you receive Dean approval. CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown AND/OR ISOS Medium without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Once ISOS has responded with their security briefing, contact your school for information on how to effectuate dean approval; then CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS High or Extreme; and for travel to Locations with an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Complete the Elevated Travel Risk Approval form; then CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS Significant or Low without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown AND/OR ISOS Medium without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Register your trip in ISOS MyTrips after you receive Dean approval. CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS High or Extreme; and for travel to Locations with an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Once ISOS has responded with their security brief, and you have sent the Elevated Travel Risk Approval form, Global Travel will effectuate Dean review, and for Extreme Risk locations we will effectuate Provost or for CUIMC EVP/Dean of Faculties review; then CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS Significant or Low without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown AND/OR ISOS Medium without an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status CDC Level 3, 4, or Unknown, AND/OR ISOS High or Extreme; and for travel to Locations with an ISOS Elevated Evacuation Status Register your trip in ISOS MyTrips after you receive the Dean and/or Provost or for CUIMC EVP/Dean of Faculties approval from Global Travel. For Travel to CDC Level 1 and 2 Countries: CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS Medium Submit the ISOS Pre-Trip Itinerary Review form; CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS High or Extreme Submit the ISOS Pre-Trip Itinerary Review form; CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS Medium Once ISOS has responded with their security briefing, and your have completed any department/school internal requirements, register your trip in ISOS MyTrips CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS High or Extreme Complete the Elevated Travel Risk Approval form; CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS Medium CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS High or Extreme Once ISOS has responded with their security brief, and you have sent the Elevated Travel Risk Approval form, Global Travel will effectuate Dean review, and for Extreme Risk locations we will effectuate Provost or for CUIMC EVP/Dean of Faculties review; then CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS Medium CDC Level 1 or 2 with ISOS High or Extreme Register your trip in ISOS MyTrips after you receive the Dean and/or Provost or for CUIMC EVP/Dean of Faculties approval from Global Travel. Email globaltra[email protected] for more information. Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, and Postdoctoral Fellow/Scholars ISOS Risk Rating (ITPP Requirements) For travel to Medium, High, and Extreme Risk locations, strongly encouraged to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation locations, must have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and complete the *Elevated Travel Risk Approval Form for review and approval from their dean or unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost, and for CUMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. All CU-related international travel is required to be registered in ISOS MyTrips. Spring and Summer 2022 International Travel Restrictions requirements All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed. Additional information Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellow/Scholars traveling with students must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Officers of Administration and Support Staff ISOS Risk Rating (ITPP Requirements) Medium-risk locations, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. High-risk locations, have itinerary reviewed by ISOS and complete the Elevated Travel Risk Approval Request Form for dean-level review and approval. Extreme-risk locations and locations with Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and complete the *Elevated Travel Risk Approval Request Form for review and approval from their dean or unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost, and for CUMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. All CU-related international travel is required to be registered in ISOS MyTrips. *Global Travel will effectuate secure written approvals once the traveler has completed the Elevated Travel Risk Approval Request Form. Spring and Summer 2022 International Travel Restrictions requirements All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed. Please note, if your location is a U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory Level 1 or 2, but has an ISOS Medium, High, or Extreme Travel Risk, you must complete the requirements listed under the ISOS locations above. If your location is a U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory Level 3 or 4, but has an ISOS Travel Risk Rating of Insignificant or Low, you must complete the steps listed under the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisories listed above. Additional Information If your location has a CDC COVID-19 Advisory Level 1 or 2, but has an ISOS Medium, High, or Extreme Travel Risk, you must complete the requirements listed under the ISOS Travel Risk Ratings. If your location has a CDC COVID-19 Advisory Level 3 or 4, but has an ISOS Travel Risk Rating of Insignificant or Low, you must complete the steps listed under the listed above. You must comply with the highest rating of your location, this includes cities with an ISOS High Risk Rating, but overall Medium Risk Rating for the country. Columbia travelers must take an active role in addressing administrative, health and safety concerns inherent to international travel. If you are planning a trip abroad, recognize that certain regions require special considerations due to political, cultural, legal or health-related reasons. Your careful review and consideration of the current state of your travel destination(s) is critical to your trip’s success. id-badge icon International SOS search icon Research Your Destination gears icon Data and Technology clipboard icon Export Controls Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close