Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > International Student & Scholar Services > Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions INTERNATIONAL STUDENT & SCHOLAR SERVICES About International Student & Scholar Services Apply for Admission International Student Life Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Below are answers to common questions, click on each question to reveal the answer. How many current students are attending TU from my home country? To find out if your country is represented at The University of Tulsa please click here. Back to top Does TU offer scholarships to International Students? Yes! The University of Tulsa offers the International Leadership Scholarship to well-qualified international applicants. This is a merit-based scholarship based on the student’s academic background as well as extracurricular and leadership experience. The award is offered to select freshmen applicants at the time of admission. Students must submit a completed application for admission with all the required supporting documents. No additional scholarship application is needed and all qualified applicants are automatically considered. Award values vary from $2,000 to $17,000 USD. The initial award is for one year and is renewable as long as the student maintains full-time enrollment and a 2.0 cumulative GPA at The University of Tulsa. Eligible students may renew up to three times for a total of four years of study. Early applicants are considered favorably. If outside scholarships received, in combination with TU scholarship funds, exceed the student’s basic charges of TU tuition, room and board, the university reserves the right to adjust any awarded funds. Back to top What is the cost of tuition and the fee structure? A complete breakdown of tuition, fees and expenses can be found here. Back to top What are the personal expenses listed fees and tuition budget? Personal expenses are listed so the students have a reasonably good idea about the total expense of attending The University of Tulsa. Personal expenses include items such as movie tickets, dining out, personal items and other personal expenses and fees not listed in the cost breakdown. Back to top I have changed my degree program or level. Is it necessary to change my I-20 to reflect my current program or level? Your I-20 should always reflect your current degree program. So, if you change degree programs, you need to come by our office so we can issue you another I-20 that reflects the changes. Back to top I have changed my major. Should I get a new I-20 that reflects my new major? Under current F-1 regulations, it is required that your new I-20 reflect your change in major. Back to top I would like my spouse and/or children to join me in the United States. What do I need to do to allow them to come with me? You will need to request a dependent I-20 form from the International Student Services Office. Your dependents must apply to the US Embassy/Consulate for F-2 entry visa stamps. They must also present the dependent I-20, evidence of financial resources, and evidence of intent to return home. They may also be asked to present a copy of your transcript. See Also: Immigration Issues Student Visa Information Back to top Is it possible to work on campus? Yes. F-1 international students do not need permission to work on campus. J-1 students require SEVIS updates prior to working on campus, so you will need to come to the ISS office to discuss work opportunities with the SEVIS compliance coordinator. However, the jobs must not exceed 20 hours per week and must be paid from university, not government, funds. Back to top What are some of the on-campus jobs? There are jobs available in several of the computer labs across campus. There also are jobs in the fitness center, dining services, housing and the library. Back to top My spouse is here on a F-2/J-2 visa and he/she would like to work to supplement our income. Can he/she do this? No. Individuals holding F-2 status are not, under any circumstances, allowed to work in the U.S. This includes student positions on campus. However, individuals holding a J-2 visa may request work authorization from USCIS. Please call and make an appointment with the SEVIS compliance coordinator if you have questions about this process. Back to top I am an F-1 student who would like to gain work experience off-campus in a job related to my field of study. You may be able to obtain off-campus work authorization to work in a job related to your field of study. Come to the International Student Services Office to discuss this option. You must have been in F-1 status for at least one academic year to be eligible for off-campus employment. Back to top I am an F-1 student who will graduate soon. How do I receive permission to work in the United States after graduation? If you are completing your program of study, you may be eligible to apply for post-completion Optional Practical Training. This application must be recommended by our office and approved by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). This process can take up to 3 months, so please allow sufficient time for approval to be received before you plan to begin working. The employment authorization will allow you to work in a job related to your field of study. Back to top I am a J-1 student who will graduate soon. How do I receive permission to work in the United States after graduation? You may be eligible to apply for Academic Training once you receive your job offer. The application must be completed and signed by your academic adviser and submitted to the ISS office for approval at least two weeks prior to the program end date listed on your DS-2019. If it is approved, the employment authorization will allow you to work in a specific job directly related to your field of study for 18 months. Please come to the ISS office for additional information regarding academic training. Back to top What should I do if I received a stimulus check from the Internal Revenue Service and I am not sure if I qualify to keep it? The U.S. government has announced that international students and visiting scholars in the US may have erroneously received a stimulus check intended for US citizens as financial assistance during the Covid-19 pandemic. The reason for the error is that it is most likely an incorrect tax form was filed. If you receive money from the US government, you should reach out to the U.S. IRS at 1-800-829-1040 to confirm you have completed the appropriate tax form and are entitled to the money. Does TU have an Intensive English Program? The University of Tulsa is not admitting students to an Intensive English Program for 2021-2022. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT