Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Incubating Innovation in India Mumbai Incubating Innovation in India July 04, 2019 India is the third largest startup ecosystem in the world, behind only the United States and China, according to a recent report by Nasscom and Zinnov. Startups are supported by incubators, typically in the early stages of product and customer development. Incubators add value by providing coaching and mentorship, workspaces and makerspaces, and by interfacing with other stakeholders in the innovation ecosystem critical to startup success. In India, incubation began in the 1980s through government efforts and has since been expanded by both the public and private sector. Today, the total number of incubators is well over 200. This statistic indicates a booming startup economy, in terms of startups getting formed, funded, and the valuations achieved. On the other hand, as a society, urban India faces some of its biggest challenges to date: water scarcity, air pollution, rising volumes of food and plastic waste, traffic congestion in urban zones, among others. Taken together, these two occurrences call for incubators to evolve their role in supporting startups that are creating solutions to these grand challenges of our times. As part of its Urban Works Innovation Challenge project, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai hosted a panel presentation entitled ‘Incubating Technology Solutions: Perspectives on India’s Innovation Ecosystem’ that was followed by a discussion moderated by the Center’s Director, Dr. Ravina Aggarwal, on June 25, 2019. The panel featured two distinguished speakers, Pratap Raju and Sunita Singh. Pratap Raju is the Founder of Climate Studio, where he is building local ecosystems for climate entrepreneurship. He is also the National Lead for India for Climate Launchpad, the world’s largest green business idea competition started by Climate-KIC, the EU’s main climate initiative. Sunita Singh is the Executive Vice President, Global Initiatives at Wadhwani Foundation and the Co-founder of the National Entrepreneurship Network (NEN). India’s entrepreneurial ecosystem is two-fold: high growth startups mostly driven by technology, and small businesses mostly operating in non-metro cities and towns. Ms. Singh illustrated how small business entrepreneurship is necessity-driven and not great at solving systemic issues at scale, and argued that it is important for these small and medium enterprises to show growth readiness and shed the fear of failure. Mr. Raju pointed to persistence as a crucial attribute for potential startup success. While technical talent can be nurtured, being resilient against all odds separates a sustainable startup from a startup that could fail at any time. Both speakers emphasized the importance of metric. Ms. Singh proposed that if a startup’s marketplace is the social development sector, then they need to navigate a multi-stakeholder space comprising of atypical players such as non-profit organizations, farmer collectives, self-help groups, and various branches of the government. Elaborating on this further, she remarked that it is the job of foundations to bring about market readiness and create enabling environments when dealing with social issues that have no clear-cut market opportunities for startups. She spoke of the importance of hard data and reminded the audience that even the social sector, known for its focus on inputs rather than outputs and outcomes, is gradually evolving its ways. Mr. Raju described how measuring the impact of incubators and accelerators is difficult since metrics such as funds raised could be momentary successes resulting in eventual failure. Ms. Singh also highlighted the role of universities in inculcating an entrepreneurial culture. She argued that it is necessary for college campuses to celebrate all entrepreneurs and not just the unicorns, and nurture diversity. The inputs provided by the speakers sparked a lively discussion from the audience that comprised investors, social entrepreneurs, techies, students, and members of government organizations. Tags Mumbai Public News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close