Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources International Travel MOU Guidelines Funding Menu AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources– International Travel – MOU Guidelines University Global Partnership Network Research Collaboration Fund 2022 Call for Proposals The UGPN exists to create a foundation for international collaboration enabling academics and students from world-leading universities to work together on issues of global importance. Its members are North Carolina State University (NC State), the Universidade de São Paulo (USP), the University of Surrey (UOS) and the University of Wollongong (UOW). The RCF supports international activities leading to high-quality research collaborations between UGPN partner institutions. Log into the “members” section with your ncsu email address. The RCF supports international activities leading to high-quality research collaborations between UGPN partner institutions. For the RCF 2022 call, the network particularly welcomes proposals which: Contribute to the research area ‘sustainability’; and/or Are multidisciplinary/interdisciplinary across STEM/Social Sciences/Humanities Funding of up to US$10,000 (or the approximate AU$, £, R$ equivalent) per participating institution in each successful proposal will be made available for travel, subsistence, consumables related to the project and the dissemination of results. Projects run from August 1, 2022 to July 31, 2023. For further information and to make an application, please visit the members area of the UGPN website. Contact For queries, please contact us at ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu. Timeline Call for project proposals: March 14, 2022 Submission deadline: May 16, 2022 Annoucements: July 18, 2022 FAQ I am planning on collaborating with one other university. Should we submit two separate proposals with two separate budgets or one single proposal with a budget of up to $20,000? Please submit one single joint proposal (with a budget up to $20k, 10k each) outlining in detail what that money would be used for. How are the proposals assessed? Is there an interinstitutional committee, or are decisions made within each institution individually? Could there be a scenario in which a proposal/budget is partially approved? Please view the evaluation criteria below: Proposals that meet the eligibility requirements will be reviewed and assessed by internal review panels at each of the four universities. A joint committee consisting of representatives from all UGPN partners will make the final decision for awards. Proposals will be assessed with reference to the following criteria: Relevance: degree to which the project addresses a globally important challenge and demonstrates innovative, interdisciplinary and sustainable collaboration among UGPN partners; Proposal Content: clearly articulates measurable goals, objectives and activities that are feasible (evidenced by a reasonable and justified budget) and align with the purpose of the RCF; Impact/Sustainability: focus on achievable results that can lead to high impact outcomes and the potential to leverage future funding; Research Team: consideration of the involvement of a diverse team of appropriately qualified researchers from at least two UGPN partners (diversity in terms of: multidisciplinary, gender, skills, and career profile (PhD, ECR, MCR, etc) In making their decisions, the joint selection panel will seek to support a representative variety of research topics. Proposals that include visiting staff engaging in postgraduate programs/research areas are strongly encouraged. If a proposal is approved, how are resources allocated and managed? The budget template (downloadable within the application) should make it clear that you need to offer a breakdown of the budget per partner involved. You can apply for up to $10,000 per partner involved. Each partner handles the budget locally, so you will need to set up budget codes / make arrangements with your finance team accordingly. There is no ‘shared’ fund pot. Each partner has its own pot of up to $10,000 administered locally. Should both PI and Co-PI submit their CVs or only the PI? CVs are only needed for lead PI from each partner institution. What is the difference between Co-PI and Further Co-PIs? Each project has a PI named for each institution. The application form also allows for additional collaborators (these are optional). Who should sign the letter of support? Your Faculty Dean should be signing the letter of support (from your institution). Do we need a letter from each institution? Yes, you will need one letter from each institution signed by your Faculty Dean. What should this letter actually say to make a competitive case and meet the requirements of the application? The letter of support needs to identify the importance of the research in light of your College’s interests, your professional development and the connections it will foster with your collaborator(s) at the other UGPN partner(s). Justification of why the UGPN network offers the best avenue for the research would be critical as well. Finally, there is interest in the extent to which it will lead to larger grants and publications as evidence of the return on investment. Funded Proposals 2021-2022 Funded Proposals Show More Melis Duyar (UoS) and Joel Pawlak (NC State, College of Natural Resources) “Converting Textile Microfibres to Carbon Nanomaterials to Prevent Water Pollution from Laundering” $10,000.00 fund awarded by NC State Carlos Hotta (USP) and Colleen Doherty (NC State, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) “Acquired Thermotolerance and Heat Stress Memory in Plants” $10,000.00 awarded by NC State Matteo Barberis (UoS) and Nicolas Buchler (NC State, College of Veterinary Medicine) “Improving Metabolic Product Yield by Decoding the Coupling between Metabolic and Cell Cycle Oscillations in Bakers’ Yeast in Industrial Bioreactors” $9,544.00 awarded by NC State Bethany Hoye (UoW), Daniel Horton (UoS) and Aram Mikaelyan (NC State, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences) “Incorporation and Maintenance of Carrion Microorganisms in Blowflies” $9,615.70 awarded by NC State Liang Cui (UoS), Wanniarachchige Gnamani Pabasara Kumari (UoW), and Mohammed Gabr (NC State, College of Engineering) “Synergistic Hybrid Marine Renewable Energy Harvest Systems” $10,000.00 awarded by NC State Thomas Astell-Burt (UoW), Birgitta Gatersleben (UoS) and Aaron Hipp (NC State, College of Natural Resources) “Less Netflix, More Nature! Unlocking the Potential of Green Social Prescriptions to Reduce Health Inequity and Strengthen Environmental Sustainability” $10,000.00 awarded by NC State Catherine Barbour (UoS, USP) “Women’s (Im)Mobility in Times of Crisis” $20,000.00 awarded by University of Surrey and Universidade de São Paulo 2020-2021 Funded Proposals Show More Production and validation of a bovine lung-on-a-chip to study bovine respiratory diseases (NC State and University of Surrey) NC State lead – Geof Smith, Professor, Department of Population Health and Pathobiology 2D quantum materials for clean energy harvesting (NC State, University of Wollongong and University of Sao Paulo) NC State lead – Divine Kumah, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics Monty Goes Down Under: Adapting a Game-Based Learning Environment for International Student Collaboration (NC State and University of Wollongong) NC State lead – John Nietfeld, Professor, Department of Teacher Education and Learning Sciences Understanding the Emotional Impact of COVID-19 Coverage in Popular Media, and its Implications? (NC State, University of Surrey, University of Wollongong, and University of Sao Paulo) NC State lead – Munindar Singh, Professor, Department of Computer Science Development of a machine-learning framework to identify risk factors for COVID-19 infection in swine caretakers and estimate the chances of new COVID-19 waves. (NC State and University of Sao Paulo) NC State lead – Monique Pairis-Garcia, Associate Professor, Department of Population Health and Pathobiology Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.