Skip to Georgetown Global Engagement Menu Skip to main content Georgetown University stands in solidarity with Ukraine. View university resources. Georgetown University Georgetown University Global Engagement Search Search Term Search Close search form Menu Close Search Term Initiatives Collaborative on Global Children's Issues Earth Commons Georgetown Americas Institute Global Health Initiative India Initiative Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life Initiative on Innovation, Development and Evaluation Initiative for U.S.-China Dialogue on Global Issues Institute for the Study of International Migration Latin America Leadership Program The Future of the Humanities Project Global Economic Challenges Network Regions Africa Asia-Pacific Europe Latin America Middle East and North Africa North America South and Central Asia Issues Transnational Issues Church and World Development Diplomacy Environment Global Health Human Rights Interreligious Dialogue Migration and Refugees Culture and Society Art and Performance Communications Culture Gender History Languages and Literature Science and Technology Politics, Economy, and Justice Business and the Economy Ethics Governance Law Peace and Security Political Economy Events Media Multimedia Newsroom For Faculty For Students D.C. Location Located in the nation’s capital, Georgetown offers opportunities to engage with global leaders in government, business, society, and the academy. Academic Excellence Georgetown is home to internationally-renowned scholars who address critical global issues through their research and teaching. Service to the World A Catholic and Jesuit institution, Georgetown educates students with the knowledge, skills, and values to serve the global common good. 3,600+ International Students 140+ Different Student Nationalities 200+ Study Abroad Programs 350+ Agreements with International Partners 12,000+ Alumni Living and Working Abroad Global Georgetown Academic excellence, a DC location, and service to the world are at the core of Georgetown University's global identity. An international community of scholars and students based in the nation’s capital, Georgetown advances the common good through research, teaching, and outreach around global issues. Read the GU Brochure Join Our Mailing List Search the Global Database Search Explore Global Georgetown Featured News All News McCourt School Professor Adriana Kugler Confirmed to Lead World Bank Adriana Kugler, a professor at the McCourt School of Public Policy, is confirmed by the Senate as the U.S. executive director of the World Bank. Greek Prime Minister Addresses Georgetown on First Day of U.S. Visit During his visit to the United States, Prime Minister of Greece Kyriakos Mitsotakis spoke to students at Georgetown University about his upcoming meetings with President Joe Biden, the war in Ukraine, and the resiliency of Greek democracy. Life or Debt in Ukraine For the Jordan Times, Anna Gelpern, professor at Georgetown Law, writes on the accumulating public debt in Ukraine as the crisis continues. Will Putin Use Chemical Weapons in Ukraine? Ben Connable, adjunct professor in the School of Foreign Service, discusses what the use of chemical weapons in Ukraine would mean for the conflict. Surgeon Wins Hearts and Minds Teaching Combat Care in War Zones Aaron Epstein discusses his work in Ukraine and the Global Surgical Medical Support Group, the aid organization he launched while in studying at the Georgetown University School of Medicine. Felipe Lobo Koerich (SFS’21, CLAS’22) Reflects on Half A Decade on the Hilltop as He Embarks on an International Law Career Recent graduate Felipe Lobo Koerich discusses his experience at Georgetown University and how it has set him up for his future in international law. WHO’s European Countries Say Moscow Office Should Be Moved In the Washington Post, Lawerence Gostin, professor at Georgetown Law, comments on the current debate about whether the World Health Organization's Moscow office should be moved. Reclaiming the Rule of Law: Georgetown Law, UPenn Co-Host Symposium on the Legacy of the U.S. Torture Regime Georgetown Law and the University of Pennsylvania’s Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law hosted an event on the United States' use of torture, particularly post-9/11. Antonio Tahhan (MAAS’22) Draws on SFS Education to Launch Documentary Project Exploring Syrian Diaspora Experience Through Food Antonio Tahhan, a student in the master of arts in Arab Studies program, begins work on a documentary on food to understand the Syrian diaspora. Reena Aggarwal on Digital Currency in China and Its Impact on the Global Economy Reena Aggarwal, a professor of finance in the McDonough School of Business, answers questions on digital currency and China based on her recent research included in the new report "Digital Currencies: The US, China, And The World At A Crossroads." The Culture of Encounter: An Imperative for a Divided World This conference, sponsored by Georgetown University and La Civiltà Cattolica, will take place on May 27 and 28 in Rome, convening scholars and practitioners to explore Pope Francis’ idea of the culture of encounter and its practical relevance across… History Professor Wins Guggenheim to Explore Japanese History Jordan Sand, a history professor at Georgetown University, receives a fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation to continue researching the history of the Ise Jingu grand shrine in Japan. Two Supreme Court Justices, U.S.’s Justice Breyer and India’s Chief Justice Ramana, Compare Notes Georgetown Law hosts a virtual discussion with two Supreme Court justices which covered topics from diversity in the judiciary to lessons learned from each other’s legal systems. Kelley Anderson Completes Fulbright Work in Czech Republic Kelley Anderson, associate professor in the School of Nursing and Health Studies, describes her experience during her Fulbright in the Czech Republic. Celebrating Asian American and Pacific Islander Cultures and Heritage at Georgetown This May, Georgetown University celebrates the many contributions of Asian American and Pacific Islander students, faculty, and staff and highlights the teaching, scholarship, advocacy, and cultural enrichment efforts of our university community. Global Travel Returns for Signature MBA Consulting Projects Students of Georgetown’s MBA program participate in Global Business Experience in March 2022 trips after being virtual for two years. Business and Global Affairs Undergraduates Embark on Immersion Experience to the Dominican Republic Undergraduate students studying business and global affairs travel to the Dominican Republic in March 2022 to better understand the connection between society, governance, and business. The War Isn’t Over, but Ukraine Is Already Prosecuting Russian Crimes For the Washington Post, Gregg Bloche, Georgetown Law professor, and Elisa Massimino, executive director at the Human Rights Institute, co-write a piece on Ukrainian officials moving forward with war crime prosecutions against Russian soldiers. New Study Finds Climate Change Could Spark the Next Pandemic A recent study by Georgetown faculty members Colin Carlson, Gregory Albery, Casey Zipfel, and Shweta Bansal published in Nature finds connections linking climate change and the spread of viruses. Georgetown Students Collaborate with DC Universities for Worldwide Climate Teach-in Students from Georgetown joined peers from all nine DC universities to share local climate action initiatives based on campuses and in the city. Hoyas Show Support for Ukraine Alumni of Georgetown University Medical Center are working to provide aid for those affected by the crisis in Ukraine. Al Gore Looks to Georgetown Students to Spark Action on Climate Change Youth climate leaders at Georgetown University spoke with former vice president Al Gore ﻿at the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC.﻿﻿ Global Climate Storytelling Project We Hear You—A Climate Archive Launches ﻿The Earth Commons and Global Lab, in partnership with the Embassy of Sweden and Dramaten, has launched ﻿﻿a project featuring a two-year series of curated international performances and a digital platform for climate storytelling. How Climate Change Historians Are Using Centuries-Old Data to Shine a Light on Our Planet’s Future Dagomar Degroot, associate professor of environmental history, seeks a more nuanced understanding of climate change by interpreting evidence of weather documented in nature. Georgetown Students Dialogue with Pope Francis in Live Zoom Event In January 2022, two Georgetown students received an unexpected invitation to join Pope Francis on a live Zoom call. A few weeks later, they presented their experiences and questions to the pope. Three Alumni Making a Difference in Afghanistan, Rwanda, and on a Food Truck In the Spirit of Georgetown storytelling series, three alumni committed to the value of cura personalis through their efforts in uplifting communities in the United States and abroad. SFS Students and Alumni Achieve Foreign Service Dreams Through Pickering and Payne Fellowships In 2022, a diverse cohort of School of Foreign Service students and alumni have been awarded Pickering and Payne Fellowships, which aim to strengthen the U.S. Foreign Service by supporting historically underrepresented groups. Our European Way of Life? Challenges to Human Rights and Justice in the EU’s Migration Policy In the Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Magdalena Kmak and Stephen Phillips call on the European Union to treat its human rights obligations seriously by ensuring full functionality of territorial asylum in the EU.﻿ African Environmental Philosophy, Injustice, and Policy In the Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, Workineh Kelbessa argues the management of natural resources should be ﻿participatory, inclusive of indigenous input, and community-based.﻿﻿ “Coming Into Its Own:” A History of the African Studies Program at SFS Forty years after its founding, the African Studies Program looks to the region's dynamic future while keeping an eye on its founding mission. Georgetown Named a Top Producer of U.S. Fulbright Student Awardees According to a new report from the U.S. Department of State, Georgetown University is the second highest producer of U.S. Fulbright Student Program awardees for 2021-2022. We Hear You: Youth & Climate Performance On Friday March 18, Georgetown University's newly launched Earth Commons is co-sponsoring an evening of climate storytelling with emerging artists and climate leaders, inspired by Greta Thunberg’s urgent question, “Can you hear me?” Georgetown Brings an International Affairs Education into the Metaverse With the use of virtual reality technology, Georgetown University in Qatar students explored a social justice initiative while learning how digital innovations have transformed society and the future of education. Georgetown’s New Institute Tackles Urgent Environmental Challenges Georgetown has launched the Earth Commons to accelerate action, research, and education on the most pressing environmental and sustainability challenges both locally and globally. SFS Alumni Form a “Close-Knit Family” at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut At least seven School of Foreign Service alumni currently work at the embassy in Beirut, facilitating cultural exchange and managing humanitarian relief efforts and representing American interests abroad. Interview with Constantin Sigov on the War in Ukraine Interviewed by the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs, Constantin Sigov reflects on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, highlighting what the conflict might mean for the future of Ukraine, Europe, and world order. Georgetown's 7th Annual Africa Business Conference on February 26 On February 26, the School of Foreign Service and McDonough School of Business will host the Africa Business Conference featuring panels and keynote addresses from emerging leaders and Africa business icons. Fratelli Tutti: Gianni Vattimo in Dialogue with Debora Tonelli In January 2022, leading Italian philosopher Gianni Vattimo spoke with Debora Tonelli on the encyclical Fratelli Tutti and the future of the Catholic Church. The Initiative for U.S.-China Dialogue on Global Issues Launches Podcast The new U.S.-China Nexus podcast will feature conversations with scholars and policy experts on the dynamics in China and Sino-American relations. Afghan Students in United States Face Uncertain Future Maryam Rayed (G'23), a master's degree student in democracy and governance at Georgetown, is quoted in Voice of America about the uncertain future of her home country and potential opportunities for Afghan Fulbright students in the United States. Will Unrest in Kazakhstan Inflame Tensions Between Russia and the West? For Foreign Policy, SFS Professor Matthew Kroenig and Emily Ashford discuss the recent civil unrest in Kazakhstan and the potential impact on the United States' relationship with Russia and Eurasia. The Failure of Vaccination in Africa For the Bharat Express News, Alexandra Phelan, assistant professor of global law, public health, and ethics, provides comments on vaccine inequity between high-income and low-income countries. Can Pope Francis Make Real Change for Women? Vatican Women Leaders Assess His Chances "Women in Synodality," an event co-hosted by Georgetown University, responded to concern over the lack of female leadership positions in the Catholic Church, and looked towards the future role of women in the Church. In Times of Crisis — Or To Create One — Russia's Putin Turns to His Military For NPR, Center for Eurasian, Russian and East European Studies Director Angela Stent provides historical context for Russia's recent aggression towards Ukraine. Will Europe Retaliate for Congress' Proposed Electric Vehicle Tax Credits? Marc Busch, professor of international business diplomacy at SFS, writes for the Hill on the potential for bias towards European cars and car parts under Congress' proposed electric vehicle tax credits. GU-Q's Suzi Mirgani Puts Qatar on the Academy Award Nomination Ballot Mirgani, assistant director for publications at GU-Q’s Center for International and Regional Studies, says that her role has influenced her creative process and informed her award winning short, Al-Sit. Facebook Twitter Weibo LinkedIn Flickr YouTube Initiatives Collaborative on Global Children's Issues Earth Commons Georgetown Americas Institute Global Health Initiative India Initiative Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life Initiative on Innovation, Development and Evaluation Initiative for U.S.-China Dialogue on Global Issues Institute for the Study of International Migration Latin America Leadership Program The Future of the Humanities Project Global Economic Challenges Network Georgetown University Office of the Vice President for Global Engagement 37th and O Streets, N. W. Washington D.C. 20057 Phone: 202-687-4203 Email: global@georgetown.edu Contact Us Stay Updated Sign up for our newsletter and event information. Email Address Sign Up Web Accessibility Copyright Privacy Policy © 2022 Office of the Vice President for Global Engagement