Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Our Team Sarah H. Cleveland Sarah H. Cleveland Sarah H. Cleveland Louis Henkin Professor of Human and Constitutional Rights, and Faculty Co-Director of the Human Rights Institute at Columbia University Law School My Contact Info Sarah H. Cleveland Sarah H. Cleveland is the Louis Henkin Professor of Human and Constitutional Rights, and Faculty Co-Director of the Human Rights Institute at Columbia University Law School in New York, where she teaches and writes in the areas of international law, human rights, national security and the constitutional law of U.S. foreign relations. Cleveland is a member of the Secretary of State's Advisory Committee on International Law and the UK/Canadian High Level Panel of Legal Experts on Media Freedom, a Council Member of the International Bar Association’s Human Rights Institute, and a Commissioner with the International Commission of Jurists. She was formerly Vice Chair and Member of the UN Human Rights Committee (2015-2018) and Member of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe (2010-2019), and served as Co-Coordinating Reporter of the American Law Institute’s Restatement (Fourth) of the Foreign Relations Law of the United States (2012-18). From 2009 to 2011, Cleveland served as the Counselor on International Law to the Legal Adviser at the U.S. Department of State, where she helped supervise the office's legal work relating to human rights, counterterrorism, the law of armed conflict, and international justice. where she helped supervise the office's legal work relating to human rights, counterterrorism, the law of armed conflict, and international justice. A former Rhodes Scholar and law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun, she is a graduate of Brown University (A.B.), Oxford University (M.St.) and Yale Law School (J.D.). She has written widely on issues of international law, national security, and human rights, including Human Rights (Foundation Press, 2nd ed. 2009 and update 2013); Human Rights Treaty Bodies in the Age of Connectivity, in Système de Protection des Droits de L’Homme des Nations Unies : Présent et Avenir (University of Paris Panthéon-Assas, 2017); Defining and Punishing Offenses Under Treaties (Yale L. J. 2015); Embedded International Law and the Constitution Abroad (Colum. L. Rev. 2010); and Our International Constitution (Yale J. Int'l L. 2006). including Human Rights (Foundation Press, 2nd ed. 2009 and update 2013); Human Rights Treaty Bodies in the Age of Connectivity, in Système de Protection des Droits de L’Homme des Nations Unies : Présent et Avenir (University of Paris Panthéon-Assas, 2017); Defining and Punishing Offenses Under Treaties (Yale L. J. 2015); Embedded International Law and the Constitution Abroad (Colum. L. Rev. 2010); and Our International Constitution (Yale J. Int'l L. 2006). She has taught at the Harvard, Michigan, and University of Texas law schools; Oxford University, Sciences-Po University, Paris, the University Panthéon-Assas (Paris II), the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies, Geneva, and the European University Institute, Florence. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close