Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home Countries Subject to CU Travel Advisories Countries Subject to CU Travel Advisories The following countries may be subject to travel restriction. Please contact [email protected] if you are planning Columbia-related travel to any of the countries listed below. Countries Subject to Comprehensive U.S. Sanctions The Crimea, Donetsk (DNR) and Luhansk (LNR) Regions of Ukraine Cuba Iran North Korea Russia* Syria Venezuela For additional information, please visit: https://research.columbia.edu/economic-sanctions-and-restricted-parties For research related travel, please contact the Office of Research Compliance & Training at [email protected]. For non-research related travel, please contact Global Travel at [email protected]. Countries in International SOS (ISOS) Evacuation Status of “Stand-by” or Higher Stand-by Stand-by Alerts are issued when ISOS identifies a high level of risk to people, and are issued only in response to events that present a clear danger to the safety of travelers and expatriates. With a Stand-by alert, ISOS authorizes the evacuation for scholastic clients. Chad Pakistan Papua New Guinea Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel (the second highest alert of ISOS) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel are issued when ISOS determines that business is severely disrupted and there is a critical risk to the safety of staff, travelers, and expatriates. Central African Republic Ethiopia Iraq Lebanon Libya Myanmar South Sudan Sudan Turkmenistan Venezuela Evacuate: Full Evacuation (the highest alert of ISOS) Evacuate: Full Evacuation (the highest alert of ISOS) are issued when ISOS determines that, “the safety or security situation in country or a particular location makes it unsafe to remain, or where the subsequent means for evacuation are going to be virtually non-existent. These decisions are made in consultation with medical and security professionals, consular and government sources, staff and clients.” Afghanistan Haiti Somalia Syria Ukraine Yemen [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close