Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Postponed - "Fire in the Blood": Film Screening and Discussion Events Past Event Postponed - "Fire in the Blood": Film Screening and Discussion Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 16, 2020 6:00 PM - 8:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai, 12-13, Maker Chambers VI, First floor, Jamnalal Bajaj Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 With rising safety concerns amidst the recent Coronavirus scare, we regret to inform you that our film screening event for "Fire in the Blood" on March 16 has been postponed to a later date. We will inform you of the revised event date as soon as the new schedule is confirmed. We apologize for the inconvenience caused. Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai invites you to a screening of the highly acclaimed documentary film “Fire in the Blood” followed by a discussion with Dr. Yusuf Hamied, Non-Executive Chairman of Cipla and Dr. Nerges Mistry, Director of Foundation for Medical Research, Mumbai. Universal access to treatment has always been a long standing public health issue. Despite the advent of life-saving medications, HIV and AIDS claims millions of lives every year. "Fire in the Blood" is the story of the fight for access to life-saving medicines in the global South, the region arguably hardest hit in the early waves of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. It showcases the policies, practitioners, and patients who came together to save millions of lives. The film traces the controversial dimension of how monopolistic practices by Western pharmaceutical companies may have blocked the flow of low-cost life-saving AIDS medications. It also interweaves stories of HIV-positive people who survived because they could afford medications that kept the virus in check. Directed by Dylan Mohan Gray, "Fire in the Blood" was the official selection of over 100 leading film festivals in 45 countries, including the competition section of the Sundance Film Festival 2013. It has been screened before the United Nations, the World Health Assembly, the European Parliament in Brussels, and the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. This event is part of a series on Access to Treatment organized in partnership with Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health. To register, please send an email to [email protected] About the discussants: Dr. Yusuf K. Hamied is the Non-Executive Chairman of Cipla and an Indian Scientist. He has been influential in pioneering the development of multi-drug combination pills, notably for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, asthma and other ailments as well as the development of pediatric formulations of drugs, especially those benefiting children in poor settings. He is also highly regarded for his role in expanding the production of bulk drugs and "active pharmaceutical ingredients" in India. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honor, by the Government of India in 2005. He was also awarded a National Award from the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India for successful commercialization of publicly funded R & D. He was elected a Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, UK in 2004. He received an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Society of Chemistry, which is awarded to individuals who are distinguished in the science or profession of chemistry, in 2012. In the same year, he was also awarded the 'CNN-IBN Indian of the Year' in the category of business by CNN-IBN. In late 2013, he was named one of India's '25 Greatest Global Living Legends' by news broadcaster NDTV. Dr. Nerges Mistry is a Director and Trustee of The Foundation for Medical Research, Mumbai and The Foundation for Research in Community Health, Pune. A microbiologist and immunologist by training from the University of Mumbai and The University of Birmingham, U.K, Dr. Mistry’s work encompasses infectious diseases with a recent focus on the molecular epidemiology of multidrug resistance tuberculosis and the mechanisms of acquisition of rapid drug resistance in tuberculosis and its public health implications. Dr. Mistry has over 81 publications in peer-reviewed journals and has been a principal investigator of over 28 major research projects. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close