Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home International SOS (ISOS) ISOS TravelTracker (Administrators) ISOS TravelTracker (Administrators) TravelTracker is available to travel administrators designated and authorized by International Risk Management. ISOS TravelTracker is a tool for administrators throughout the University to monitor international travelers within their purview. To log into your existing TravelTracker (Administrator) Account Visit International SOS TravelTracker You will use your email address and the password you created. Travelers, the TravelTracker system is not the same as MyTrips. To register your trip, please visit MyTrips. To Become a Designated TravelTracker Administrator To be designated as a TravelTracker administrative user, please ask the Senior Business Officer for your office to send a request to [email protected]. Include the following in the request: Name and Title for the new designated administrator UNI (your UNI-based email address will be used as the login username) The specific segment of travelers that this administrator will oversee, as defined through the following three categories: Traveler Type: Approved Guests (includes Alumni): These are guests of the University, who are NOT registered students or employees, but are traveling on Columbia Travel Employee (Administration/Support Staff) Faculty (Officer of Instruction) Graduate or Professional Student High School Student - Travelers with Summer Programs at the School of Professional Studies Librarian (Officer of Libraries) Researcher (Officer of Research or Postdoc) Third Country National (TCN)/Locally-Employed Staff (LES) Undergraduate Student Columbia School Where Registered or Employed Institute/Center/Office coordinating travel Registering a Trip on Behalf of a Traveler In addition to manually registering a traveler's trip, TravelTracker Administrators can forward itineraries on behalf of a traveler. When forwarding the itinerary on behalf of a traveler: The traveler will need to create an ISOS MyTrips profile in order for you to forward their itinerary, and ensure the contact information is correct. Enter the traveler's @columbia email address in the 'TO' line and enter the ISOS email address below in the CC line [email protected] Click here to view a short tutorial on forwarding an itinerary on behalf of a traveler for TravelTracker Administrators. If you have any technical difficulties with TravelTracker Contact [email protected] (CC [email protected] on any email communication with ISOS) US: +1 646-259-0477 France: +33 157324976 UK: +44 20 35644536 Singapore: +65-68185590) Please note that there is a mobile version of this system, see instructions on how to install it on your mobile device. For other questions, please email us at [email protected]. [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close