Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory International Services Study Abroad Office NC Japan Center Global Training Initiative Intensive English Program Passport Services NC State Prague Global Health Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard About Menu Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory– International Services – Study Abroad Office – NC Japan Center – Global Training Initiative – Intensive English Program – Passport Services – NC State Prague – Global Health Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard NC State Global Courtyard The Global Courtyard serves as a space to showcase how NC State strives to bring the world to campus. The Global Courtyard is located in a once inconspicuous space between Primrose and Tompkins Halls, just a short walk from the Memorial Belltower and Court of North Carolina. Anchored by the Dream of Flight sculpture by NC State alumnus Heath Satow, the space was completed in the Spring of 2020 and is able to accommodate a wide range of events and activities. Global Courtyard Dedication Ceremony On November 8, 2021, NC State formally dedicated the Global Courtyard, a gathering space for international-focused events and students. Located between Primrose and Tompkins Halls, the courtyard is also home to a piece of public art, “Dream of Flight,” by College of Design alumnus Heath Satow. More than just a beautifully renovated space, the Global Courtyard is emblematic of the university’s commitment to global engagement — and an international community. View Picture Gallary Building Global Community The newly dedicated Global Courtyard symbolizes NC State’s commitment to global engagement — and an international community. Read more Global Courtyard Celebrates International Education A once inconspicuous space between Primrose and Tompkins Halls will soon transform into a gathering place for international-focused events. Upon completion of landscaping and renovations, the Global Courtyard will showcase how NC State strives to bring the world to campus. Read more Alumnus Heath Satow’s “Dream of Flight” Sculpture moves to Global Courtyard In summer 2018, sculptor and NC State College of Design alumnus Heath Satow (BEDA, ’91) posted a call for help on Facebook. He had just moved to Utah when he was contacted by the RDU Airport Authority, saying that his Dream of Flight sculpture had to be removed. Over two thousand miles away, Satow was hoping that a friend in Raleigh would come to his aid. Read more Holding an event in the Global Courtyard The Global Courtyard is available for use by Global Engagement-related and University-related groups. All organizations, groups, and individuals using this facility are expected to observe the rules and procedures governing the utilization of this space. Procedures and Restrictions for the Reservation and Use of the Global Courtyard Show More Procedures Reservations can be made online by completing the form below. NC State University students or employees may submit a reservation request. However, the “person responsible” (see No. 5 below) must be a faculty or staff member at NC State University. This reservation form helps to organize groups from having multiple events in the courtyard at the same time. No event planning services are provided. Groups are responsible for asking students occupying the courtyard at the time of their event to move. Trash/Recycling – there is one set of trash/recycling receptacles at the entrance of the courtyard. Should more be needed, groups will need to work with NC State Recycling to request additional trash/recycling receptacles delivered to the courtyard. At the conclusion of the event, groups must ensure that all trash is properly disposed of and the area is free of litter/debris. Permanent trash can should not be left overflowing. If any specialized services are needed, students should contact Rave! Events. The Global Courtyard is equipped with wifi coverage and numerous outdoor power outlets. It features moveable seating for 18 as well as 3 fixed benches. The facility may be reserved from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Monday-Thursday, and 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Friday. First priority will be given to Global Engagement-related groups in which reservations may be made as early as one year in advance. Non-Global Engagement users may receive firm booking 30 days prior to the scheduled event. A “person responsible” is an NC State University faculty or staff member (NOT a student), MUST agree to attend the event and take full responsibility for the event and its related activities in the Global Courtyard area, including behavior of all attendees. Restrictions: Groups are required to familiarize themselves with the current COVID-19 restrictions on in-person events and abide by these restrictions. For more information, visit: https://www.ncsu.edu/coronavirus/ If you are bringing any tents, outside tables, or using any outside vendors, you must reach out to Grounds & Building Services to inquire about possible permits that must be obtained. Please contact Dawn Currin kdcurrin@ncsu.edu. No alcoholic beverages are permitted on the premises at any time unless after 5 p.m. and there’s an alcohol permit approved and signed by the Dean of the associated group. At the conclusion of the event, groups must ensure that all trash is properly disposed of and the area is free of litter/debris. Permanent trash cans should not be left overflowing. Additional clearstream trash cans/recycling can be requested for free from Recycling. Do not put tables, chairs, tents, or anything on the globe artwork, as this could damage the pavers. Do not attach anything to or drape anything from the sculptures. As this space is adjacent to buildings, we ask for no smoking in the courtyard. Groups should use restrooms located in Tompkins Hall. Access to Primrose Hall is not available. No overnight functions are allowed. The event must end by 10 p.m. Monday-Thursday and by 5:30 on Friday. Users are expected to keep noise (e.g. music, crowd, P.A system) down to a reasonable level, especially when classes are in session. Keep in mind that classes meet until 10 p.m. Monday -Thursday in Tompkins, Caldwell and Winston Halls and that there are classrooms located directly adjacent to the Global Courtyard. Furniture not intended to be moved MUST not be moved. Tables and chairs must be returned to their original locations. The user is responsible for seeing that the area is clean after the event. The area must be returned to its original condition and arrangement after the event. If a sponsoring organization knows in advance it cannot abide by these restrictions, it should find another location for its event. Groups that do not observe these restrictions will not be permitted to use the facility again. Global Courtyard Reservation Form Show More Global Courtyard Reservation Use this form to request a reservation for the Global Courtyard. Event Name* Event Description* Requested Date of Event* MM slash DD slash YYYY Reservation Start Time* Please include any time needed for setup. : Hours Minutes AM PM AM/PM Reservation End Time* Please include any time needed for breakdown. : Hours Minutes AM PM AM/PM Name of Requester* First Last Email* Department/Organization* Name of Faculty/Staff Member Responsible for the Event* Department, Office Phone, and Email of Person Responsible Consent* I agree to the reservation policies. Please carefully read the procedures and restrictions for use of the Global Courtyard. We agree to enforce these restrictions and make use of this facility in a responsible manner. Submit Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.