Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Biden Center Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Biden Center Our Vision Leadership News & Insights Engage with Us Penn Biden Center Our Vision Explore Back to main menu Addressing Threats to the Liberal International Order Explore Back to main menu The Refugee Admissions Project Advancing the Dialogue on Internationalism Explore Back to main menu The Democracy Project Engaging a New Generation Explore Back to main menu Kakehashi Project Penn Biden Leaders Dialogue Leadership Explore Back to main menu Rose Garrity Michael Jaeger Caroline Tess News & Insights Engage with Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy & Global Engagement Strengthening American Global Leadership for the Future Learn More We're Focused On Advancing the Dialogue on Internationalism Exploring ways to lessen the burdens and seize the opportunities of a changing world Addressing Threats to the Liberal International Order Confronting the Kremlin’s assault on democratic institutions and strengthening our alliances Engaging A New Generation Building a new constituency, especially among young people, for American global engagement "Aftershocks: The Coronavirus Pandemic and the New World Disorder" In an essay for War on the Rocks, Penn Biden Center experts Colin Kahl and Ariana Berengaut provide a detailed analysis of the possible geopolitical consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and offer recommendations for restoring U.S. leadership to respond to the crisis. @PennBiden Follow Us RT @perryworldhouse: Today, PWH's @mkguliford and @saracplana hosted a workshop at @PennBiden, in partnership w/ @BtGProjectDC & sup... Check out this article by @de_kristen of @Penn_Today on the @SNFPaideia course taught by @ZekeEmanuel and Steven Pearlstein, which gave ... RT @Penn: Penn and @GeorgeMasonU students traveled to Washington, D.C. every Friday this spring for a class that gives the inside scoop ... @PennBiden recently hosted an @SNFPaideia course, "How Washington Really Works." This course, taught by @ZekeEmanuel and Steven Pearlste... RT @de_kristen: Innovative @SNFPaideia course at @PennBiden —taught by @ZekeEmanuel and Steven Pearlstein — gives @Penn and @GeorgeM... RT @CLALS_UPENN: Thank you to the ⁦@PennBiden⁩ for a fantastic visit with PMOAS students where they discussed U.S. foreign policy in... Yesterday, participants from Penn Model OAS (@CLALS_UPENN) had the chance to speak with @PennBiden Senior Fellow Caroline Tess about U.S... RT @perryworldhouse: .@perryworldhouse and @PennBiden are #hiring! Learn more about the opportunities available in Philadelphia and D.C.... Job Posting Alert! The Penn Biden Center (@PennBiden) is looking for a new Communications Manager! Learn more about the position and how... Job Posting Alert! The Penn Biden Center (@PennBiden) is looking for a new Program Manager! Learn more about the position and how to app... The Refugee Admissions Project Over the last decade, persistent armed conflicts, pervasive violence, and the erosion of international norms for the protection of civilians have contributed to an enduring refugee crisis on nearly every continent. Today, nearly 80 million people – roughly 1 percent of humanity – are forcibly displaced worldwide. The Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement and the National Conference on Citizenship have launched a joint project to strengthen U.S. global leadership in refugee protection. Read More About the Report. News & Insights See how our leaders are impacting a globally-connected world. SEE ALL NEWS Course Shows Students How Washington Really Works by Kristen de Groot Read More Foreign Policy Managing Director Dr. Michael Carpenter Speaks With the BBC About US-Russia Relations. by BBC World News Read More Foreign Policy Aftershock: The Coronavirus Pandemic and the New World Disorder by Colin H. Kahl & Ariana Berengaut Read More Joe Biden, now serving as 46th President of the United States, Dr. Amy Gutmann, President of the University of Pennsylvania, and David Cohen, Chairman of the University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees cut the ribbon on the newly opened Penn Biden Center offices in Washington, D.C. Penn Biden Center Official Opening Penn's New Home in Washington The Penn Biden Center officially opened our doors on February 8, 2018, with an event featuring the President of the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Amy Gutmann, and a discussion on global affairs between Joe Biden and distinguished journalist and Penn alumna, Andrea Mitchell. The center welcomed guests from Penn and across the worlds of government and foreign policy, including former Secretary of State John Kerry, former National Security Advisor Susan Rice, Attorneys General Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch, and current and former members of the U.S. Congress. General Inquiries Press Inquiries Stay Connected with Updates from Penn Biden Center Newsletter signup Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy