Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Webinar: Journalism in the COVID-19 Pandemic — Roles, Demands, and Misinformation Events Past Event Beijing Webinar: Journalism in the COVID-19 Pandemic — Roles, Demands, and Misinformation Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 11, 2020 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM During this ongoing COVID-19 disaster, journalists play an essential role in informing the public, affecting people’s understanding, discussion, reflection, and memory of the global crisis, and guiding public awareness and opinion. In this webinar, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites four senior media professionals to lead a discussion on how journalists respond to the crisis and how the crisis is challenging journalism. Points to be covered: How to provide balanced coverage and avoid spreading panic? How is COVID-19 transforming journalism? How to combat the spread of COVID-19 "fake news"? How to overcome information overload? This webinar is part of the Beijing Center's Coronavirus Thematic Series Program. Panelists GAO Wang Gao graduated from Sichuan University and China Foreign Affairs University. Previously, he worked in media organizations and think tanks including Phoenix Online, Global Times Online, Chung Yang Financial Research Institute of Renmin University of China, and China Teenagers’ News Online, responsible for short video, commentary, new media management, etc. He is currently the director of the news center at website of People's Daily overseas edition. He focuses on international affairs, Asia-Pacific affairs, and Chinese affairs. TANG Bo Tang is a TV reporter for a 24-hour English-language news channel of China Global Television Network (CGTN), former English News Channel of China Central Television (CCTV News), doing feature reports on hot social topics in China and news stories on domestic and international issues. Report highlights include the G20 Hangzhou Summit, the UN’s 70th General Assembly, President Xi’s state visit to the US in 2015, MH370 airplane’s disappearance, the capsized cruise “Eastern Star” incident in Hubei Province and the Tianjin Blast in 2015. From January to April 2020, Tang spent three months in Wuhan, reporting on the COVID-19 pandemic and doing lives for both CGTN and many other foreign media. He also helped organize and hosted several online medical consultations where frontline medics in Wuhan shared their first-hand treatment experience with medical professionals in many foreign countries including the US, UK, Italy, Canada, and South Africa. GUO Zhijun Guo has more than 10 years of media experience. During the time, she recorded many major domestic and international big events as well as China's host diplomacy, including several times NPC and CPPCC, the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, the 2010 Guangzhou Asian games, the 2014 Beijing APEC summit, the 19th national congress of the communist party of China, and the 2019 G20 Osaka summit. Since 2014, She has served as the director of international news department at China Review News Agency. She develops international news coverage on China-U.S relations, the East Asian security issues, denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, Sino-Japanese relations. She was a professional associate of Weatherhead East Asian Institute at Columbia University from the fall of 2015 to the summer of 2016. Since 2017, she frequent reports international summit on security issues such as the Shangri-la Dialogue, the Seoul Defense Dialogue, and the Beijing Xiangshan Forum. WEI Chang (Moderator) Wei received her M.A. in Instructional Technology and Media from Columbia University. She has worked in the United Nations, Roland Berger, and Caxton FX, who also possesses proficient language skills in English, Chinese, and German. She appears on a series of television programs in China to discuss youth leadership. Her area of interest is in media and education. She is currently a TV correspondent based in Washington, D.C. at Phoenix Television. Notice This webinar is in Beijing Time. Language: Chinese Please click link below to register. Once you complete the registration form, the Zoom meeting ID and password will be displayed. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close