Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Columbia Global Centers Scholarship: U.S. Business Law Academy Events Past Event Columbia Global Centers Scholarship: U.S. Business Law Academy Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 15, 2020 - January 2, 2020 12:00 AM - 12:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Tunis Background on the U.S. Business Law Academy Curriculum. The USBLA is a three-week, non-credit educational and cultural experience for foreign-trained law students and practitioners. Instructors for the 2020 edition of the program come from the full-time law faculties at Columbia, Oxford, and Georgetown Universities. They plan to present a total of 48 hours of classroom instruction on “Introduction to US Legal Institutions”, “Introduction to Mediation”, “US Financial Law in an International Perspective”, and “US Corporate Law in an International Perspective”. Additional Content. The USBLA also offers practice-oriented lectures from several prominent New York lawyers. In 2019 these visitors spoke on “Advising Clients about the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act”, “International Arbitration in a US Perspective”, and “Advising #MeToo Clients”. Columbia Law School administrators, meanwhile, hosted information sessions about our LLM program and other topics. Participants attended lunches at international law firms, a court room meeting with senor judges, and visits to sites of cultural interest in New York City. Global Networking. Beyond legal instruction, the program offers a global networking experience. The program typically includes approximately 100 participants came from 25-30 countries. About 2/3 of the group are currently enrolled in university programs (the program was originally designed with law students in mind), with approximately 1/3 made up of professionals from private practice, government service, and academia. Columbia Global Centers Scholarship Who. To be eligible for a Global Center Scholarship, an individual must be a current law student or practitioner, and be nominated by the director of a Global Center. Each Global Center director may nominate one person, selected at that director’s discretion. There is no expectation, however, that any or all of the Global Center Directors will choose to do so. What. Columbia Law School will provide all eligible nominees with a Global Centers Scholarship, equivalent to a 50% discount of the posted US Business Law Academy program fee (i.e., $5,250 x 50% = $2,625). The Law School is unable to discount the cost of optional on-campus housing (approximately $2,250), or any visa fees charged by ISSO or the US consulate. The Scholarship is offered for the 2020 edition of the USBLA only. How. Applicants who have been nominated for a Global Center Scholarship must submit the standard online USBLA application no later than February 1, 2020. They must also arrange for the director of a Global Center to email, by that same date, a brief and informal statement of nomination on their behalf to [email protected]. When. Individuals seeking to receive a Global Centers Scholarship must submit an online application, and have a corresponding nomination from a Global Center director emailed on their behalf, by February 1, 2020. A non-refundable, online deposit of $500 will then be due from the applicant within two weeks of notification of acceptance to the program. The USBLA program itself will be held July 5-24, 2020. Additional Information The US Business Law Academy website provides detailed information about dates, curriculum, costs, and other matters. For additional information on the program, or the Global Center Scholarship, please email us at [email protected]. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close