Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home WBYA? Who Builds Your Architecture? Events Past Event WBYA? Who Builds Your Architecture? Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo WBYA? Who Builds Your Architecture? November 2, 2014 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM Speakers: Kadambari Baxi, Kıvanç Eliaçık, Elif İnce, Beth Styker, Mabel Wilson. Response by: Yaşar Adanalı Venue: Studio-X Istanbul (Meclis-i Mebusan Cad. 35A Salıpazarı, Istanbul) Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul and Studio-X Istanbul organize the first panel of the WBYA? series. This emerging coalition of architects, activists, scholars, and educators tackles this difficult and pressing question: who builds your architecture? to examine the links between labor, architecture and the global networks that form around building buildings. As major architectural projects unfold in the Middle-East, Asia, Africa and around the globe, and as increasingly architects from the US work abroad, we explore the ethical, social and political questions that emerge under these relatively new circumstances. From workers’ rights to construction practices to design processes to new technologies WBYA? investigates the role of architecture and architects: what it is and what it could be. Speaker Biographies Kadambari Baxi Kadambari Baxi, Professor of Professional Practice in Architecture, has been on the Barnard faculty since 2005. She teaches architectural design studios, senior seminars, and special topics seminars. Professor Baxi is an architect engaged in an expanded architecture and media practice. Her current work focuses on design, new technologies, and global cultural relationships. Kıvanç Eliaçık Kıvanç Eliaçık is a trade unionist and writer and currently the Director of International Relations Department of DISK (Confederation of Progressive Trade Unions of Turkey). Studied Communications at Istanbul Bilgi University, he holds an M.A. in Labor Economics from Marmara University and an M.A. in Fine Arts from Dokuz Eylül University. Elif İnce Elif İnce is a freelance journalist whose reporting on urban and environmental issues has received awards from the Chamber of Architects and the Chamber of Urban Planners among others. She worked at Radikal daily previously and is a graduate of Brown University and Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. Beth Stryker Beth Stryker works between NYC and Cairo and has curated exhibitions and programs for the Downtown Contemporary Arts Festival in Cairo, Beirut Art Center, the AIA/Center for Architecture in NYC (where she held the position of Director of Programs), and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, among other venues. Stryker received her B.A from Columbia University and her M.Arch from Princeton University. She is a founding partner of CLUSTER, a platform for art and design initiatives and urban research in downtown Cairo. Mabel O. Wilson Mabel Wilson received a doctorate in American Studies from NYU (2007), and an M. Arch from Columbia’s GSAPP (1991). As the Nancy and George E. Rupp Professor at GSAPP, she directs the program for Advanced Architectural Research, co-directs the Global Africa Lab, and is a Senior Fellow at the Institute for Research in African-American Studies in GSAS. She teaches courses in architectural design, architectural theory, and visual cultural studies. Yaşar Adanalı – respondent Yaşar Adanalı is an urban activist and researcher. He has two urban blogs: reclaimistanbul.com and mutlukent.wordpress.com. He teaches participatory planning courses at TU Darmstadt and Stuttgart University. Previously, he worked on development planning, research, and management in London, South America and Tanzania. He has a B.A. in Social and Political Sciences from Sabancı University and an M.A. in Development and Planning from University College London (UCL). His Ph.D. research is on spatial democracy and urban governance. www.studio-xistanbul.org Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close