Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Professor Howard W. French on "Everything Under the Heavens: How the Past Helps Shape China's Push for Global Power" Events Past Event Professor Howard W. French on "Everything Under the Heavens: How the Past Helps Shape China's Push for Global Power" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 29, 2017 3:30 PM - 6:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing EVENT INTRO “A deep historical and cultural study of the meaning of China’s rise… Fascinating…Convincing.” — The New York Times "Stimulating...This book is a reminder that China’s international relations take place in a historical context going back centuries if not millennia, and Mr. French is an engaging guide through that deeper history." — The Wall Street Journal “A look at China from the inside as well as from the outside. French knows the country well… He stresses a political history that helps illuminate territorial conflicts between China and its neighbors.” — The New Yorker On July 29, Professor Howard W. French from Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism will visit Columbia Global Centers | Beijing to join an event of Columbia Beijing Summer journalism series. He will be sharing his new book, Everything Under the Heavens: How the Past Helps Shape China's Push for Global Power. The non-fiction book, Everything Under the Heavens: How the Past Helps Shape China's Push for Global Power (Knopf 2017), has been widely and favorably reviewed since its publication and was featured on the front page of the New York Times Book Review in June. It was also selected by The Guardian as one of the season's most notable books. We cordially invite you to attend the event! SPEAKER Howard W. French is a Professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. His career in journalism began as a freelance reporter for The Washington Post and many other publications in West Africa. He was hired by The New York Times in 1986, and worked as a metropolitan reporter for three years, and from 1990 to 2008 reported for the Times as bureau chief for Central America and the Caribbean, West Africa, Japan and the Koreas, and China in Shanghai. During this time, his work was twice nominated for the Pulitzer Prize; he was twice the recipient of an Overseas Press Club Award, and he has also won the Grantham Environmental Award, among other awards. He is the author of A Continent for the Taking: The Tragedy and Hope of Africa (2004) and China's Second Continent: How a Million Migrants are Building a New Empire in Africa (2014), each of which was named a non-fiction book of the year or cited among the year's most notable books by several newspapers. His most recent non-fiction book is Everything Under the Heavens: How the Past Helps Shape China's Push for Global Power (Knopf 2017). Heavens has been widely and favorably reviewed since its publication and was featured on the front page of the New York Times Book Review in June. It was also selected by The Guardian as one of the season's most notable books. French's writing has also been published in Atlantic, The New York Review of Books, The New York Times Magazine, Rolling Stone, Transition, The Nation, The Chronicle of Higher Education, The Crisis and the Columbia Journalism Review. He is also a documentary photographer, whose book Disappearing Shanghai (2012) captured life in the old workers' quarters of central Shanghai as they were being destroyed. Images from French's work on this project have been displayed in Asia, Europe and North America and acquired by collectors and museums. AGENDA Public Session: 3:00 p.m. - 3: 30 p.m. Registration 3:30 p.m. - 3:40 p.m. Opening Remarks by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing 3:40 p.m. - 4:40 p.m. Book Talk by Professor Howard W. French 4:40 p.m. - 5:10 p.m. Q&A Private Session: 5:10 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Reception with Professor Howard W. French **This session is open to media only** Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close