University of Southern California USC Global Menu Skip to content Skip to secondary content search Global Engagement Signature Programs Educating Global Leaders Research Centers & Institutes Creative Technologies Global Database Global Presence International Offices Country Scholarship Funds Alumni Clubs USC International Academy Student Travel Abroad Program Search Departments Offering Travel Abroad Policies & Guidelines Student Health Insurance International SOS Management Login Resources & Policies Return to Content Breadcrumb Navigation Home Resources & Policies Resources & Policies The Office of International Services (OIS) is a resource center for international students and scholars, and provides guidance and information on the following: F-1 Student Visas: visa application process, requirements for maintaining international student status, and travel and reentry requirements. J-1 Scholar Visas: information for scholars and sponsoring departments on the process of bringing a J-1 exchange visitor to USC. F-1 and J-1 Employment: information for F-1 and J-1 students to obtain the appropriate work authorization, including Optional Practical Training and Curricular Practical Training. Faculty/Staff Visa Services (FSVS) provides the specialized services required to facilitate the hiring of international faculty and staff, and a centralized resource for information regarding immigration and the hiring process. INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATIONS AND RESEARCH The International Collaborations and Export Controls Policy contains guidelines applicable to USC’s international activities related to research, instruction, healthcare, student programming, and other partnerships and affiliations abroad. All USC faculty and staff should be familiar with these guidelines before participating in any international activities or travel.In developing these policies, the University has carefully considered how best to protect academic values, offer flexibility in developing relationships across the world, and meet important legal requirements, with the overarching goal of maximizing the University’s impact across the globe. The Office of the Vice President for Strategic and Global Initiatives provides guidelines for Creating International Partnerships. INTERNATIONAL INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS All engagements of individuals to perform work outside of the United States – including as independent contractors – must go through the Office of the Vice President for Strategic and Global Initiatives for review and approval. Guidelines for initiating review can be found here: International Independent Contractors. STUDENT TRAVEL ABROAD The Student Travel Abroad — Destination Restrictions and Crisis Management Policy outlines the responsibilities of students, faculty and staff engaged in the process of organizing and managing student travel abroad. USC tracks all student travel, except personal. Undergraduate and graduate students traveling outside the United States to perform any activity organized, sponsored, or related to USC in any way, must comply with USC’s policies and guidelines for sharing information and obtaining insurance and International SOS coverage prior to traveling. Strategic and Global Initiatives oversees student travel abroad, collects and reports data on travel by students and coordinates with USC Schools, Student Affairs, Student Health, Campus Support & Intervention, Risk Management, and other units for risk assessment and emergency response. INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL BY FACULTY & STAFF USC Travel Management provides support for all aspects of university business, academic, and research-related travel. Travel booking is facilitated through the Travel & Expense portal or our contracted travel agencies, such as Christopherson Business Travel. Travel safety is addressed via numerous channels such as our duty of care program, emergency support, insurance, and International SOS. Detailed information is available on the Travel & Expense section of the Business Services website. The USC Office of Compliance offers important information on complying with international travel restrictions. STUDENT, SCHOLAR AND FACULTY RESOURCES The USC Immigrant Legal Assistance Center (ILAC) provides free, confidential consultations, legal assistance, and referrals to the following members of the USC Trojan Family, students, staff members, contract employees, faculty and family members, who may be at risk of deportation, who may be eligible to apply for immigration status, or who have questions about their legal status and legal rights under the immigration laws: Individuals seeking to renew DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) Individuals with TPS (or expired TPS) (Temporary Protected Status) Undocumented individuals Individuals who have been arrested by immigration authorities or who believe they are in danger of being arrested by immigration authorities Individuals without permanent legal status who have a citizen or permanent resident spouse or other family member Individuals without permanent legal status who have been a victim of a crime Individuals with or without legal status who are considering domestic or international travel Individuals seeking to naturalize and become US citizens Other immigration issues or questions. For a comprehensive list of campus resources and programs for undocumented, DACA, TPS and immigrant students, faculty and staff please visit the Undocumented Trojans Online Resource Center. Copyright © 2021 University of Southern California Feedback Site by USC ITS Web Services Content managed by USC Strategic and Global Initiatives Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination