Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Improving Capacity to Address Gender- Based Violence in Kenya: A Cross- Sectoral Conversation About Achieving Justice. Events Past Event Improving Capacity to Address Gender- Based Violence in Kenya: A Cross- Sectoral Conversation About Achieving Justice. Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Gender-Based Violence September 23, 2020 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM Online Event This event will share initial findings from the Program on Global Health Justice, and Governance’s research focused on access to justice and GBV in Kenya during the COVID-19 pandemic, and legal and public health approaches to interventions. The Columbia Global Centers President’s Global Innovation Fund (PGIF), enabled public health students in summer 2020 to research the state of GBV prevention and response work across Kenya, with a particular focus on interventions that provide access to justice. The students situated this research in the context of the COVID-19 public health crisis. In this event, we will hear from a public health student, GBV researcher and expert, and legal expert about public health and legal approaches to GBV interventions in Kenya. Expand all Collapse all Panelist Bios Terry McGovern J.D. (Moderator) Dr. Terry McGovern Terry McGovern is Professor and Chair of the Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Her research focuses on health and human rights, sexual and reproductive rights and health, gender justice, and environmental justice. Terry founded the HIV Law Project in 1989 where she served as its executive director until 1999. She successfully litigated numerous cases against the federal, state and local governments including S.P. v. Sullivan which forced the Social Security Administration to expand HIV-related disability criteria so that women and other excluded individuals can qualify for Medicaid and social security. From 2006 until 2012, she was Senior Program Officer in the Gender, Rights and Equality Unit of the Ford Foundation. Terry recently co-edited Women and Girls Rising: Rights, Progress and Resistance: A Global Anthology. Dr. Mary Mwangi Dr. Mary Mwangi Dr. Mary Mwangi is a Gender Consultant with a passion for supporting Gender-based violence prevention and response programs and research in Kenya. She has supported integration of violence prevention and response in adolescent and adult HIV prevention and treatment programs; development of Kenya’s Multi-sectoral SGBV Monitoring and Evaluation Framework and database; a comprehensive one stop gender based violence recovery Centre in Kisumu; adaptation of the WHO GBV Quality Assurance Tool; and development of a Sexual Gender -based Violence Forensic Management Curriculum. Dr. Mwangi has worked with the government of Kenya and other stakeholders to implement the 2010 and 2019 Violence against Children surveys and national action plans to address violence against children. Dr. Charlotte Roy Dr. Charlotte Roy Charlotte Roy, MD, is a fellow in Global Emergency Medicine and MPH candidate at Columbia University. She completed her residency in Emergency Medicine at University of Chicago and earned her medical degree from Weill Cornell Medical College. Before fellowship, she participated in research and clinical work in Haiti, Guatemala, and Peru and has worked with asylum seekers and refugees in the U.S. Charlotte is a research assistant for the Columbia Program on Global Health Justice and Governance project on gender-based violence with a particular focus on the impact of COVID-19. She practices clinically in the Emergency Department at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center. Ife Osaga Ondondo J.D. Ife Osaga Ondondo Ife has a background in Law and International Development with over 20 years experience in the public and private sector with extensive work experience in the US and Africa. She is currently Head of Legal for Sub Saharan Africa at Google. Previously she was General Counsel at Innovations for Poverty Action and has worked at the International Finance Corporation, World Bank Group, UNHCR and Oxfam America. Ife has experience in various aspects of law e.g corporate, technology, intellectual property, litigation as well as Global business regulation reform experience and experience in international development in the areas of democracy and civic education, gender and access to justice, legal reform, institutional and capacity building. She holds a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Nairobi, a Masters in Law and Diplomacy from the Fletcher School, Tufts University and a Master of Laws from Columbia University Law School. She is licensed to practice law in the State of New York and Kenya. Ife has a passion for teaching and has taught at Tufts University, Boston University School of Public Health and Rutgers University in the US. >>>The Webinar will start at 4pm (Nairobi) 9am (NY) Please REGISTER below. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close