Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Nairobi Connect With Us Nairobi Jobs Nairobi Jobs Jobs and Internships Thank you for your interest in working with Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi. Vacancies, when announced, will be displayed below; if you'd like to pursue an internship at the Center, please email us at, [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Current Job Opportunities FINANCE/PROJECT COORDINATOR April - May 2022 (Open) Where you'll be working Columbia Global Center in Eastern & Southern Africa (CGC | Nairobi), established in Kenya on May 12th, 2011, is part of Columbia University's global network of centers to create research opportunities, scholarship and teaching worldwide. Our Center serves as a regional hub for research and collaboration as part of Columbia University's strategy to achieve a global presence and links the continent to Columbia's scientific rigor, technological innovation, and academic leadership. The Center provides Columbia students and academics with a base to conduct research in and for Africa. There are currently nine Columbia Global Centers operating in Amman, Beijing, Mumbai, Paris, Istanbul, Nairobi, Santiago, Tunis, and Rio de Janeiro. Our programs have three core components: Research, Education, and Public Engagement. Role Description We are hiring a finance/project coordinator to coordinate the budget, financing, compliance, and some aspects of scheduling and reporting for three research projects taking place over the next 4 years in Nairobi, Kenya. The finance/project coordinator's primary job will be to ensure the project management, particularly payments and financing for the projects, is well-organized, timely, and runs smoothly. This will include communicating with the principal investigator, staff members at the Columbia Global Center, and field researchers. It may also require occasional trips to the field, but most responsibilities of the position will be conducted remotely and from the Columbia Global Center in Nairobi. Responsibilities Overseeing purchasing of project materials and supplies and resource and payment scheduling and delivery so that research participants receive compensation promptly and team members have the resources they need to complete the project tasks Executing project management administrative tasks such as billing, bookkeeping, and reporting. Monitoring project progress and creating project status reports for the principal investigator and stakeholders. Assist in procuring research and ethics permits, permissions, and protocols and help ensure project and team compliance. Working with the members of the Columbia Global Center to troubleshoot administrative, financial, or budgeting challenges and delays. Scheduling meetings or training and facilitating communication between the principal investigator and stakeholders throughout the project life cycle. Managing project management documents such as the project budgets and budget reports, training and workshop materials, and project schedules, as directed by the principal investigator. Support principal investigator and team members to help them complete project tasks Education, Skills & Qualifications Bachelor's degree in finance, business administration, the management or a related field OR at least two years of experience in fiancé/project coordination Proficiency with Microsoft Office – Excel, Word, PowerPoint Honest and self-motivated Can work independently with guidance Excellent interpersonal skill Excellent communication skills Attention to detail Salary and Benefits This is a full-time position. The position is a 4-year position contingent on good semi-annual reviews. Salary: Kes 90,000 plus benefits. Instructions for Applying Please send a cover letter (2-page max) and resume to the following email address: [email protected] by no later than May 6th, 2022. Put "Finance/project coordinator position" in the subject line and address the email to Columbia Global Center. CALL FOR EMPLOYERS TO SUBMIT INTERN REQUESTS FOR SPRING 2021 (Closed) Submit interest here. Virtual Internship - Employer Request Virtual internships are meaningful experiences for students to support a variety of projects at organizations (businesses, NGOs, universities, research centers, etc.) across the globe, directly from their home. Columbia students can apply to any virtual internship across the Global Centers network. Read More about students virtual internships. This is a call to interested employers in the NGOs, private sector, research, business, etc., sectors to submit their interest for Columbia Interns for Spring 2021. The form that employers should complete to submit their request is here. The deadline for submission for requests is January 17th Each intern position request should be submitted separately. (for example if the employer needs two interns, they should complete two forms or for however many positions). OUR PARTNERS' JOB OPPORTUNITIES - GRID3 Consultant – Kenya (Closed) GRID3 Consultant – Kenya ANNUAL REPORT EDITOR 2021 (Closed) TERMS OF REFERENCE Annual Report Editor Individual Consultant Duration: 13th – 20th September 2021 Work Type: Consultancy (Home – Based/Onsite) Background Columbia Global Center | Nairobi (CGC | Nairobi), established in Kenya on 12 May 2011, is part of Columbia University's global network of centers, aiming to create research opportunities, scholarship, and teaching worldwide. Our Center serves as a regional hub for research and collaboration as part of Columbia University's strategy to achieve a global presence and links the continent to Columbia's scientific rigor, technological innovation, and academic leadership. The Center provides Columbia students and academics with a base to conduct research in and for Africa. There are currently nine Columbia Global Centers operating in Amman, Beijing, Mumbai, Paris, Istanbul, Nairobi, Santiago, Tunis, and Rio de Janeiro. Our programs have three core components: Research, Education, and Public Engagement. The thematic areas of focus include: Business Empowerment Creative and Liberal Arts Education and Knowledge Health Initiatives Refugees and Migration At the Center, we aim to: Enable the highest levels of knowledge and learning in and for Africa. Create a hub for global curriculum and scholarly outreach in the region. Link the academic pursuits of the Global Center to Columbia's main campus and around the world. Advance Columbia's vision of producing 21st-century global citizens. Objective(s) The Center is in the process of preparing its 2020-2021 annual report and requires an external editor to proofread, refine, and objectively provide feedback on the content created. Special emphasis is required in editing the draft report (70 pages in estimate) while ensuring the content is comprehensible, concise, and maintains its intended meaning. Thus, the Center seeks to engage a dynamic and highly skilled consultant in the role of a report editor to support its 2020-2021 Annual Report. Under the Communication Officer's supervision, the consultant will be responsible for editing and finalizing the Annual Report in the given timeframe. Specific Tasks to be Completed to Achieve the Objectives: Initial briefings at Center offices, follow up, and Q&A Editorial work Revision and re-writing of the submitted draft report (70 pages approximate). Suggestions for additional text, data, and graphics. Liaison with 2020 annual report committee for approval of text changes. Original writing where necessary to fill gaps. Liaison with the designer during the layout stage. Final edit Collaboration with the designer on finalizing report text in the layout. Submission of the completed report Approved text by the Director and Communications Officer. Approved text received by graphic designer. Qualifications and Special Knowledge/Experience Required and Desirable for Undertaking the Assignment Qualifications and Experience: Degree in Communications, Journalism, Creative Writing, Public Relations, Social Sciences, or a related field. At least two years of relevant professional experience. Proven experience in report writing demonstrated through at least two samples. Experience in producing corporate products. Previous experience in copy-editing will be an asset. Familiarity with report writing requirements. Competencies Excellent writing skills in English. High proficiency in the use of Word and Excel applications. Excellent organizational skills. Ability to meet deadlines and work under pressure. Strong interpersonal skills, able to communicate and work with diverse people. Capacity to start the work immediately and finish within the required timelines Duration of the consultancy: Over seven (7) days, the consultant is expected to carry out the assignment between 13 September and 20 September 2021. Supervision Arrangements The Communication Officer will supervise the individual consultant and work closely with the 2020-2021 Annual Report Planning team. Travel to CGC | Nairobi may form part of the consultancy. How to Apply Provide a cover letter (2 pages max) detailing how you will carry out the work. Include a CV, sample of work (at least 2), and financial proposal. Submit the documents to [email protected] by 7th September 2021. SUMMER 2021 VIRTUAL GLOBAL INTERNSHIPS (Closed) Columbia Global Centers around the world have identified hundreds of virtual internships throughout their partner networks. Despite travel restrictions, students can still find a rewarding opportunity as a global intern doing important work. Click here for a list of opportunities and click here to apply. We offer many events and programs that are open to the public - if you haven't already done so, we invite you to join our mailing list so you can find out what's happening at the Center. Subscribe * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name Alumnus of Columbia University? * Yes No If yes, please add school and year graduated Organization Area of Interest Health Initiatives Education and Knowledge Business Empowerment Creative and Liberal Arts Refugees and Migration Country/ Citizenship * Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close