Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Nansong Huang's Piano Recital in Beijing Events Past Event Nansong Huang's Piano Recital in Beijing Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 6, 2019 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On July 6, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to a piano recital, featuring Nansong HUANG CC '16. Nansong will perform and introduce pieces from Beethoven, Ravel, Medtner, and Prokofiev. This event is also part of the 2019 Columbia Beijing Summer Arts and Humanities Series. Program Beethoven: Piano Sonata No. 18 in E♭ major, Op. 31, No. 3 I. Allegro II. Scherzo. Allegretto vivace III. Menuetto. Moderato e grazioso IV. Presto con fuoco Ravel: Valses nobles et sentimentales Debussy: Estampes I. Pagodes ("Pagodas") II. La soirée dans Grenade ("Evening in Granada") III. Jardins sous la pluie ("Gardens in the Rain") Medtner: Three Fairy Tales Op. 51, No.2 Op. 20, No.1 Op. 26, No.2 Prokofiev: Piano Sonata No. 7 in B♭ major, Op. 83 I. Allegro inquieto II. Andante caloroso III. Precipitato About Nansong HUANG Born in China, 1993, Nansong started playing the piano when he was four years old. At the age of ten, he was accepted to The Middle School Attached to The Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing. In 2009, he moved to the United States and was admitted to the pre-college division of Juilliard School of Music. He earned his B.A. from the renowned Columbia-Juilliard Exchange program with degrees in Political Science and Music, and he recently graduated with a Master of Music degree at Yale School of music. Nansong is currently pursuing his Doctor of Musical Art degree in Piano Performance and Pedagogy at Northwestern University. In recent years, he had won top prizes in many piano competitions, including 1st prize in Minnesota International E-Competition Juniors (2008), 1st prize of the 5th International Piano Competition “Dedication to Franz Liszt" in Moscow (2008), 1st prize and the best performance of Tchaikovsky piece award in the 6th International Tchaikovsky Competition for young musicians, South Korea (2009), Special Jury Prize and Special Audience Prize for performance in the 4th Sendai International Music Competition, Japan (2010), 2nd prize in piano competition in Virtuoso & Belcanto Music festival (2017), Steinway Prize in Bilkent Music Festival (2018), winner of the Thaviu-Issak Piano Competition (2019), etc. He was also the recipient of Luminarts Fellowship in Classical Music by the Luminarts Cultural Foundation in 2019. In addition, He collaborated successfully with more than 20 orchestras around the world including Ukraine National Symphony Orchestra, Minnesota Symphony Orchestra, St. Petersburg Symphony Orchestra, Sendai Philharmonic Orchestra, Russian Symphony Orchestra, and many others. He is also an avid chamber musician, and has performed chamber music in many prominent venues including Carnegie Hall, Alice Tully Hall, Peter Jay Sharp Hall, etc., with works ranging from Franz Schubert to Leonard Bernstein. Nansong also appeared in many special music events. Highlights include performance of Brahms piano concerto No.1 with Juilliard Orchestra conducted by world-class pianist and conductor Leon Fleisher; collaboration with Santa Fe Ballet and Aspen Symphony Orchestra in Aspen Music Festival; welcoming performance for former U.S. Secretary of State Mrs. Hillary Clinton at Beijing Diaoyutai State Guest House during Mrs. Clinton's official diplomatic visit to China; Soloist of Stravinsky's Petrouchka with Columbia University Orchestra under the baton of Jeffery Milarsky; Performance with Lang Lang for UNICEF fundraising and Beijing Olympic celebration; and so forth. Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Registration begins 30 minutes prior to the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close