Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Global TU > International Partnerships International Partnerships GLOBAL TU Visiting Scholars & Researchers International Partnerships Contact Us The University of Tulsa works to establish meaningful institution-to-institution relationships for the benefit of TU students, faculty and staff. Because institution-to-institution agreements may be binding, legal contracts, careful consideration needs to be given to each new agreement. Individuals who are not employed by TU may not initiate or be designated as the primary contact for memorandums of understanding (MOU) or other international agreements. The International Leadership Council reviews each proposed agreement and makes a recommendation to the provost regarding the completeness of the partnership agreement and any issues generated by it. The provost signs each new agreement and renewal. Depending on the type of agreement, the relevant deans, legal counsel or other university staff also may need to review and approve of the document. Important Agreement Considerations When initiating any new MOU or other type of international agreement, TU faculty and administrators should carefully consider the following questions. As a general rule, if any of the following criteria is lacking, an agreement or MOU should not be signed: Previous faculty interaction between the proposed partner institutions Strong potential for mutual benefit Compliance with applicable legal restrictions and university regulations Secured financial and infrastructure support (as necessary) Identified on-site coordinators or contact persons at each institution Stated support from all colleges, departments and programs explicitly implicated in the agreement A plan for regular program evaluation and renewal Principal Types of International Agreements General MOU Agreement – This agreement states the intention of the institutions to explore the potential for collaborative activities in different academic or research areas. It does not include specific activities and must be implemented through addenda or separate specific agreements that are required to be approved by the authorized officials.A General MOU Agreement is used to establish the relationship when both institutions believe a formal statement of interest would be an appropriate step. This agreement establishes a substantial framework for exploring collaboration when it seems clear there may be multiple possibilities for collaboration. It identifies and informs both parties about institutional concerns such as restrictions on immigration, technology transfers and intellectual property. Agreement for Reciprocal Student Exchanges (RSE) – This agreement provides for the equal exchange of students between TU and an institution abroad. RSE participants are registered at their home institution, so there are no costs associated with tuition. However, RSE activities may have financial, accreditation and immigration implications requiring a thorough evaluation. Short-term Study Abroad Agreement – This agreement details the activities associated with a TU Study Abroad Program at a particular site. It includes the specific conditions and expectations from both parties associated with the implementation of the program.Study abroad programs must be approved by the academic departments and follow the policies and procedures established by the Center for Global Education. Agreement for Research, Technical or Scientific Cooperation – This document structures the commitments, roles and responsibilities, as well as procedures to implement an exchange of faculty, researchers or administrators between TU and an overseas institution. The financial and logistical implications of the exchange must be discussed and agreed upon before the final agreement is submitted for signature.This document will be reviewed by the Office of Sponsored Research. Graduate Studies Agreements – All agreements involving graduate or law students or related programs must be developed in coordination with and approved by Graduate Studies or Law School. Dual Degree Agreements – This document structures the program through which students receive two existing degrees, one from each partner institution. Each institution is primarily responsible for its own degree; however, an articulation of courses as well as the procedures to ensure program quality and coordination is required. This agreement allows for the transfer of credit according to existing undergraduate and graduate policies. Affiliate Institutions As a part of our internationalization efforts, The University of Tulsa partners with institutions in Europe, Asia, and the Americas. Capital University for Economics and Business, China Cathalac Science Education and Policy for People, Panama Catholic University of Lille, France China University of Petroleum East China, China Curtin University, Australia Dublin City University IIDB, Ireland Goldsmith’s College, England Kingston University, England Kuwait University, Kuwait Leicester University, England Massey University, New Zealand Mines Albi-Carmaux, France PetroVietnam, Vietnam Research Institute of Petroleum, China Robert Gordon University, Scotland Siegen University, Germany Singapore Management University, Singapore TU Dortmund University, Germany University Camilo Jose Cela, Spain University College Dublin, Ireland University of Auckland, New Zealand University of Cantabria, Spain University of New South Wales, Australia University of Zakho, Iraq Waseda University, Japan WEUN Worldwide Energy University Network, China Global Global E3 MAUI Proposing an International Partnership TU Faculty and Staff interested in proposing an International Partnership, should follow the process below: All TU units, individual faculty or staff must first contact the CGE when interested in exploring a partnership. Please e-mail the director of the CGE, Laura Semenow with information about the proposed partnership. CGE will gather information and discuss with appropriate units the viability of the partnership. CGE will draft the MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) or other international agreement based on this proposal. Agreements will be reviewed by the International Leadership Council. The purpose of this step is to ensure that all the key questions have been answered, to check for duplication, and to identify opportunities for collaboration and network building. Depending on the type of agreement, the relevant Dean(s), legal counsel, and /or other academic committees may also need to review the document. CGE will forward a recommendation to the Provost regarding the agreement. The Provost will make the final decision regarding the international agreement. CGE will make sure the document is signed and sent to the appropriate parties. Every agreement should have at least one designated TU contact. The designated contact(s) will be required to submit a brief annual report to the CGE summarizing activities completed under the terms of the international agreement. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT