Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Themes Education and Knowledge Education and Knowledge The Nairobi Center promotes knowledge sharing by providing a platform where ideas are shared among peers through a collaborative process between Columbia University and local institutions. This ultimately provides an enhanced understanding and a pathway to finding solutions for pressing global challenges. One of the Global Center’s vision and mission is to be at the heart of global conversations and to be part of a network that seeks solutions to the continually complex global challenges. In this regard, the Nairobi Global Center creates and hosts forums to cover diverse topics that address current pressing issues and invites the participation of local experts, Columbia University faculty and industry experts. Some forums that the Nairobi Center has hosted in the past are on; refugee crisis, climate change, war and conflict among others. OUR WORK The 'Building Resilience in Crisis through Education' (BRICE) Program. In a consortium headed by Oxfam IBIS consisting of global, regional and national partners and including members from Oxfam in South Sudan, Uganda and Oxfam Novib, AVSI, FAWEU, UNATU, Luigi Giussani Institute for Higher Education and the Community Development Initiative, as well as the international teacher trade union Education International and CGC | Nairobi/Columbia University Teachers’ College as a research partner, BRICE aimed at building the resilience of learners, teachers and education systems by providing education to 31,150 youth in more than 22 schools in South Sudan and Northern Uganda. Related News August 07, 2021 Nairobi Center PGIF Projects on Education and Knowledge Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Research April 26, 2021 Book Talk & Discussion with Thomas Hatch: The Education We Need for a Future We Can't Predict Tags Teachers College Beijing Public Book Release Webinar Global Themes: Arts and Humanities news January 05, 2021 Women and the Return to Poverty While women's rights are already suppressed across the world, the pandemic has exacerbated these situations in the region during lockdowns and in an absence of adequate response. From this stems a need to host a discussion on the measures to address the impact of the pandemic and the lockdown, which has put women and girls in more vulnerable positions and let them slide into poverty further. Tags Nairobi Education Gender Paris Gender Inequalities women COVID-19 Webinar January 04, 2021 Africa and Africanity Lecture Series; Ethics in Higher Education: An African Perspective This was the third Lecture in our lecture series on 'Africa and Africanity'. This Lecture on 'Ethics in Higher Education: An African Perspective' focused on education and technical skills that people require to make decisions on the basis of rationalized processing. Tags Nairobi Education Webinar Nairobi Public January 04, 2021 Africa and Africanity Lecture Series: Future of Religion and Religiosity of the Future This was the second Lecture in our lecture series on 'Africa and Africanity'. This Lecture on 'Future of Religion and Religiosity of the Future' is grounded on the dimension of human identity that cannot be expressed empirically of which is religiosity. Tags Nairobi Education Webinar Nairobi Public January 04, 2021 Africa and Africanity Lecture Series; Identity and Equity In Africa: Religious and Ideological Perspectives This was the first Lecture in our lecture series on 'Africa and Africanity'. This Lecture on Identity and Equity is grounded on the view, that we humans are brothers and sisters, whoever we happen to be, wherever we happen to live, wherever we happen to have come from, and whatever our means of livelihood. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Public Webinar September 08, 2020 A global investment in public health is vital for the survival of future generations. Every evening during the early days of the pandemic, people opened their windows at a set hour to applaud the heroic women and men who were putting their health on the line in the fight against Covid-19. In New York, London, Madrid and other cities, it became something of a ritual. For me, it was a daily reminder of those invisible workers, the public health professionals who battle the pandemic behind the scenes. It was also a reminder of how now, more than ever, we must invest in public health. Tags Nairobi Press Tunis Press COVID-19 Pandemic Health Initiatives September 08, 2020 Beyond lockdown: Africa needs to ramp up its testing, tracing and treatment efforts Lockdowns and physical distancing have proved crucial to slowing the spread of Covid-19 in the short term, but looking to the future these measures are unsustainable and have caused a lot of social and economic damage. As the race for the vaccine continues experts are now focused on improving testing, tracing and treatment efforts, especially in Africa, where life-threatening gaps exist. Tags Nairobi Press Tunis Press COVID-19 Pandemic Mailman School of Public Health Health Initiatives September 08, 2020 Solid, altruistic global leadership is the only way to face future crises and win Covid-19 has taught us that investing in health security research, preparedness and responsiveness, nationally, regionally and globally, is critical. For this to work and to beat similar crises in future, effective, credible, altruistic political leadership at all levels of society is needed. Tags Nairobi Press Tunis Press COVID-19 Health Initiatives September 08, 2020 ‘Copy-paste’ physical distancing measures have had ‘dire effects on developing countries’ Physical distancing is a tried and tested method of slowing the rate of infection during a pandemic (without the use of medical interventions). But as we’ve seen, it can have devastating economic, health and social effects, especially on developing nations. Tags Nairobi Press COVID-19 Tunis Press Pandemic Nairobi Education September 08, 2020 Why Africa needs to be involved in the development of Covid-19 vaccines Understanding the epidemiology of Covid-19 and moving forward would be critical to determining policy on the need to adopt interventions, including the Covid-19 vaccines that are being developed. Tags Nairobi Press Tunis Press COVID-19 Pandemic Nairobi Education September 08, 2020 Striking a balance: Public health and social measures in Africa Finding the balance between limiting disease transmission, maintaining access to critical services and supporting livelihoods is the public health challenge of this century. Tags Nairobi Press COVID-19 Pandemic Nairobi Education September 08, 2020 Covid-19: Guarding against the misuse of highly pathogenic agents. By Talkmore Maruta There is a need to consolidate global efforts to control and manage highly pathogenic agents like SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19). The legal framework under development by Africa-CDC will address this by assigning government agencies to regulate research activities that include high-consequence pathogens, and to ensure ethical boundaries are not breached. Tags Nairobi Press COVID-19 Tunis Press Health Initiatives September 08, 2020 Africa needs to do more to position itself to benefit from future Covid-19 vaccines. Never before has the public had an opportunity to see, in glaring detail, the difference good governance makes. As Covid-19 spreads across the globe, we witness how different leaders address the same crisis. Some have the skills, qualities and appetite required to best guide their countries through the crisis, while others demonstrate their incompetence on a near-daily basis. Tags Nairobi Press COVID-19 Pandemic Nairobi Education August 28, 2020 3rd Round Table Discussion: The Pandemic and its Aftershocks: Columbia University African Students Perspectives. Tags Nairobi stories student Tunis Education Tunis Stories Nairobi Education August 26, 2020 Columbia Global Centers| Nairobi and Tunis, Round-table Discussion on:Climate Change Tags Nairobi stories student Tunis Education Climate Change August 24, 2020 Part 2: Digitizing Education: Parents as Teachers Emergency remote education during COVID-19 has exacerbated structural inequities and revealed gaps in pedagogical knowledge and infrastructure to support the use of technology for instruction. During this webinar, we will hear about the challenges that are facing parents and learn about coping strategies and the resources available for parents. Tags Nairobi Education Teachers College COVID-19 Education and Knowledge July 22, 2020 Digitizing K-12 Education: Capturing the COVID-19 Experience and Imagining the Future COVID-19 has exacerbated structural inequities and revealed gaps in pedagogical knowledge and infrastructure to support the use of technology for instruction. From this Webinar, we will hear the impact COVID-19 has had on education and instructional strategies in primary and secondary education that can support online teaching and learning - in the US, Kenya, Turkey, and globally. Tags Nairobi Education Istanbul Education Teachers College July 17, 2020 Part 1: Oral Health and Healthcare during COVID-19: Lessons from India, Kenya and the United States This was the first panel of a two-part panel series hosted by the Columbia Global Centers| Nairobi and Columbia Global Centers| Mumbai. The purpose of this series was to discuss lessons learned from India, Kenya and the United States in finding innovative ways to provide in-person and virtual clinical and outreach services in dental healthcare delivery during this pandemic. Tags Nairobi Education Mumbai Education July 14, 2020 Navigating Work and Home Responsibilities during the Pandemic Along with the terrible toll it has exacted in lives lost, as well as negative health and economic impacts, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced dramatic changes in how families must navigate work both inside and outside of the home. This webinar brought together a team of experts who addressed issues that are being experienced in the home as a result of the pandemic and provided helpful tips on how to deal with these challenges. Tags Nairobi Education School of Professional Studies July 14, 2020 Stigma and Discrimination in the midst of a pandemic This was the third panel of a three-part panel series hosted by the Columbia Global Centers| Nairobi and Columbia Global Centers| Rio de Janeiro. The purpose of this panel was to bring together experts and community members to talk about their experiences with and perceptions of stigma and discrimination in informal settlements in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic and to hear their strategies and recommendations for addressing stigma and discrimination in these communities. Tags COVID-19 Nairobi Education Rio Education School of Social Work July 14, 2020 Floods Management: Prevention, Protection and Mitigation Water-Related Disasters account for about 90% of natural disasters globally. Global warming and climate change have resulted in changing weather patterns around the world. In various regions, rainfall patterns have changed drastically resulting in unprecedented river flows. This webinar sought to minimize the impact of flooding both in Kenya and India through the development of mitigation measures geared towards minimizing the impacts of floods. Tags Nairobi Education Mumbai Education School of International and Public Affairs July 13, 2020 COVID-19 and mental health in informal settlements: How bad is it and what can be done? The purpose of this panel discussion was to bring together mental health experts living and working in informal settlements to discuss mental health in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic and to provide recommendations for managing and mitigating mental health challenges in these communities. Tags COVID-19 Nairobi Education Rio Education Mental Health School of Social Work June 12, 2020 COVID- 19 and Informal Settlements This was the first panel of a three-part panel series hosted by the Columbia Global Centers| Nairobi and Columbia Global Centers| Rio de Janeiro. The purpose of this series is to hear from experts and residents of informal settlements about some of the pressing issues related to the Covid- 19 pandemic in informal settlements in these two populous cities. Tags Nairobi Public Nairobi Education Rio Public Rio Education School of Social Work May 12, 2020 Voices from the Ebola nurses and the implications in the battle against COVID-19. From this webinar on ‘Frontline Nurses: Leaders in Pandemic Response’ you will get to hear the voices of the Ebola nurses, understand their insights, and consider the implications for all of us today in the battle against COVID-19. Tags COVID-19 Center for the Study of Social Difference of Columbia University Nairobi Education April 29, 2020 Learn on how Africa is better managing the spread of Covid- 19 This special webinar on 'Africa Confronting Covid- 19' held on April 22nd 2020 at 3:00 pm GMT was co- hosted by ICAP at Columbia University and Columbia Global Centers| Nairobi together with Columbia Global Centers| Tunis Tags Mailman School of Public Health COVID-19 Nairobi Education February 19, 2020 Columbia University delegation in Algeria Tags Education Evaluation October 11, 2018 The African Nutritional Sciences Research Consortium Meeting Tags Nairobi Research Nairobi Education Global Themes: Health and Medicine news ANSRC August 17, 2018 Pediatric Leaders from Sub-Saharan Africa Meeting On August 17th and 18th, Columbia Global Centers Nairobi hosted a PGIF Workshop by Drs' Phillip Larussa, Wilmot James and Lawrence Stanberry - which involved a Pediatric Leaders from Sub-Saharan Africa. Participants were from Ethiopia, Malawi, Rwanda, South Africa, Lesotho, Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, Mozambique, Ghana, and Liberia. The goal of this meeting was to assemble key African pediatric leaders in the academic, government and not-for-profit sectors to discuss Global Health Security Agenda issues as they relate to the child and adolescent. Tags Nairobi Research Nairobi Education PGIF Global Themes: Health and Medicine news July 19, 2018 Equity Foundation - 2018 College Counselling Bootcamp On July 19th, 2018, the Director of Columbia Global Centers |Nairobi – Dr. Murugi Ndirangu, was invited by Equity Foundation to speak to a group of students who were attending the 2018 College Counseling boot camp at Brookhouse School Karen. The group comprised of 100 scholars – these being those who were going through the application process to IVY League Schools abroad including Columbia University, and over 15 mentors – these being those with some experience abroad. Tags Nairobi Education July 11, 2018 Opportunities for Addressing Challenges in Oral Health and Dental Care On July 11, 2018, Columbia Global Centers hosted a Kenya/Brazil oral health learning laboratory workshop on opportunities for addressing Challenges in Oral Health and dental care. The workshop brought together stakeholders from government, private and public institutions. Each stakeholder brought a wealth of experience and provided opportunities for knowledge-sharing. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Research Nairobi Research Global Themes: Health and Medicine news Kenya Brazil Oral Health Learning Laboratory Health Workshop May 21, 2018 Re-thinking Sage Philosophy On Friday, 25th May 2018, Columbia Global Centers hosted a full day conference on, "Re-thinking Sage Philosophy" this was organized in collaboration with the Institute of African Studies, Columbia University, and the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies at the University of Nairobi. Tags Nairobi Research Nairobi Education May 09, 2018 Book Launch - "African Muckraking - 75 Years of Investigative Journalism from Africa" by Prof Anya Schiffrin On May 8th 2018, Prof. Tags Nairobi Public Nairobi Education March 22, 2018 Model International Mobility Convention Launch in Nairobi Columbia Global Centers Nairobi hosted the launch of the Model International Mobility Convention. This brought together participants in the areas of refugee law, human trafficking, economic migration, labour rights, public policy, international law, labor migration and forced migration. The event was moderated by Prof. Sarah Deardorff, an Adjunct Professor with Columbia School of International and Public Affairs. The panel of speakers were drawn from government, academic and NGO sectors. These were; Mr. Tags Nairobi Public Nairobi Research Global Themes: International and Public Affairs news March 10, 2018 International Women's Day Kenya Celebrations In marking International Women Day, Columbia Global Centers Nairobi partnered with a working committee of women leaders from the African Gender Taskforce - a virtual forum comprising of about 130 women who are passionate about all issues pertaining to and that affect women. The Women deliberated on plans / programs to empower women through training in key areas such as in productivity, security, sustainability, personal development and assertiveness. The committee established 5 thematic areas under which training would be established and implemented. These are; Tags Nairobi Public Women Leadership Global Themes: Arts and Humanities news Global Themes: International and Public Affairs news Global Themes: Business and Entrepreneurship news Global Themes: Health and Medicine news June 16, 2017 Teachers In Crisis Contexts Workshop The INEE Teachers in Crisis Contexts (TiCC) Working Group, in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development’s Education in Conflict and Crisis Network (USAID ECCN) coordinated the “Teachers in Crisis Contexts Introduction, Contextualization and Implementation Workshop for Kenya,” from June 12-16, 2017 at Columbia Global Centers Nairobi. The workshop brought together practitioners, teacher trainers, policymakers and academics. Participants were introduced to the Training Pack for Primary School Teachers in Crisis Contexts, which was launched in April 2016. Tags Nairobi Education June 16, 2017 ‘US stands to lose as much as Africa if Fogarty closes’ A proposal to cut funding for the John E Fogarty International Center from the upcoming United States federal government budget by President Donald Trump’s administration has prompted an outcry from academics and educators across Africa. Tags Nairobi Education Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Nairobi Press June 16, 2017 Governments must work with Universities on Climate Change East African governments should work with universities to build knowledge on climate change with a view to building the capacity and resilience of local communities, who largely depend on rain-fed agriculture, to mitigate the consequences of climate change. Tags Nairobi Education Columbia Commitments: Climate Response Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Nairobi Press June 16, 2017 New guidelines set high publishing bar for Academics Kenya’s Commission for University Education has issued stringent new guidelines for the appointment and promotion of academic staff in a system that gives heavy emphasis to publication in reputable, peer-reviewed journals and discourages publication in so-called predatory journals. While the move is intended to raise academic standards, it has also raised concerns about the hurdles to publication facing many Kenyan academics. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Press June 10, 2017 New PHD Scholarship on Food Security and Nutrition The rare opportunity – the first in Africa – is a major collaboration with Columbia University. The ANSRC is a partnership that brings together academic and research institutions across the East African region with the goal of building a PhD training programme in basic research in nutritional and agriculture science. The main aim is to address food insecurity in the region and raise the number of trained manpower in the selected fields of study across East African universities. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Research Nairobi Press Global Themes: Health and Medicine news ANSRC June 02, 2017 Calls to boost universities’ PhD science Training Capacity Strengthening the capacity of East African universities to train PhD and post-doctoral academics in areas such as human nutritional sciences, agriculture, technology, engineering and mathematics is urgently needed to develop local scientific capacity and help the region to achieve its development goals. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Research Nairobi Press Global Themes: Health and Medicine news ANSRC May 10, 2017 Why World is Facing Uncertain Future Gone are the days when you could predict the next course of action along the dominant ideologies. For more than 50 years, the works of economist John Maynard Keynes dominated capitalist governments. Tags Nairobi Public Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Nairobi Press April 24, 2017 Nairobi - Global Think-In Event The Global Think-In Event titled, ‘Thoughts On A Changing World’, was held on 24th April 2017. It brought together academics and experts in various fields discussing the global issues facing and affecting Kenyans. Tags Nairobi Public December 01, 2016 Africa Nutritional Sciences Research Consortium (ANSRC) The consortium is being facilitated by Professors Richard Deckelbaum and Debra Wolgemuth of the Institute of Human Nutrition at Columbia University, Dr. James Ntambi, professor of Biochemistry and Nutrition at the University of Wisconsin, and Dr. Bonnie Dunbar, adjunct professor at the University of Nairobi. The Institute has established a coordinating office for this program at Columbia University’s Columbia Global Centers | Africa (Nairobi), under the direction of the East Africa Coordinator and Kenyan native, Dr. Murugi Ndirangu. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Research Global Themes: Health and Medicine news ANSRC November 03, 2016 Columbia University Global Centers aim to prove university’s ‘Relevance’ Columbia’s Safwan Masri says that to understand a region today, you must consider the entire world. "There’s a very different feel and a very different impact that’s realised by being on the ground and having real conversations and dialogue that I think advances the notion that universities are relevant and neutral places of inquiry," Universities must adopt global, rather than international, outlooks, says scholar. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Press Global Education June 25, 2015 International Aid Groups Release Report in Nairobi on Education Under Attack A group of thirty key stakeholders from the education sector in Kenya gathered at the Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi to deliberate the future of education in areas plagued by insecurity and conflict. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Research March 01, 2015 Center Hosts Sustainable Development Course for Columbia and Princeton Students A joint team of students from Columbia and Princeton Universities attended a course in Nairobi at Columbia Global Centers | Africa as part of their Sustainable Development in Practice program. The course is designed to give the students a practical but broad-based understanding of sustainable development in East Africa. Tags Nairobi Education Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions March 25, 2014 Failure of Education undermines the Arab world, Professor Safwan Masri reveals in Columbia Global Centers | Africa lecture The event, held at Strathmore University’s business school, was the inaugural lecture in a series to be hosted by the Nairobi Center throughout 2014. Professor Masri’s distinguished academic career, including his current role as executive vice president for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University, provided the basis for his unique insight, shared with a packed hall of Kenyan university students, faculty, and Columbia University alumni and partners. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Public Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions March 22, 2014 Free Online Course suits Kenyan Students just fine This is a collaboration between 617 global partners and 10 US state institutions such as Columbia University, Yale University, Stanford University, State University of New York and University of Kentucky. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Press January 28, 2014 African Migration and Development Policy Center team visits CGC Africa CGC | Africa was proud to host the team of the African Migration and Development Policy Centre (AMADPOC) in Nairobi, Kenya, headed by Professor John O. Oucho, PhD, on Monday 27 January 2014, as part of the E-Conference on the Health Consequences of Migration, hosted online across the Columbia Global Centers and the Columbia Population Research Center in New York. Tags Nairobi Education August 31, 2013 Liberal Education in Authoritarian Places Tags Nairobi Education Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Nairobi Press March 08, 2013 Perpetrators Must Be a Part of Reformed Society Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Press Nairobi Public January 14, 2013 Columbia University Opens Global Center in Nairobi, Kenya University officially inaugurates seventh international hub for expanded academic partnerships, and student and alumni affairs. Tags Nairobi Education Nairobi Public Related Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close