Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About Global Cornell OVPIA Privacy Policy OVPIA Privacy Policy The Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs (OVPIA) is committed to respecting users' privacy. For that purpose, this policy has been adopted to address the collection and use of information from the OVPIA portfolio of sites. To maintain effective privacy practices, OVPIA retains the right to update this policy without notice. Information Collected OVPIA collects information passively upon a user's visit to one of our websites. Passively Collected Information When a user visits our sites, some information such as the visitor's internet protocol (IP) address, internet service provider, operating system, the site from which the visitor arrived, and the time and date of the user's visit may be collected automatically as part of the software operation of the website. This intake of information is not personally identifiable. OVPIA uses Google Analytics, a web metrics service, to collect certain information automatically upon a user's visit. For more information regarding Google Analytics, see Google's privacy policy. Special Notice for EU Residents If you are located within the European Economic Area (European Union, Norway, Liechtenstein, and Iceland), we acknowledge the rights granted to you under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). These rights may include: Right to access your information held by us Right to correct inaccurate or incorrect information about you Right to the erasure of your information when it is no longer necessary for us to retain it Right to restrict processing of your personal information in specific situations Right to object to processing your information, including sending you communications that may be considered direct-marketing materials Right to object to automated decision-making and profiling, where applicable Right to complain to a supervisory authority in your jurisdiction within the EU Please contact the itservicedesk@cornell.edu with any questions, concerns, or if you wish to exercise any of these rights. Electronic Communication and Security Please note that electronic communication is not guaranteed to be secure against interception. Do not send confidential data by email or web form. Cookies and other Collection Technologies Cookies Cookies are text files stored on your computer and accessible only to the websites which create them. Our websites may use cookies to keep you logged into secure areas of the website. You may disable cookies in your browser; however, our websites may not work properly if you do so. Log Files Our websites automatically gather anonymous information about our visitors, including IP addresses, browser types, and the times and dates of webpage visits. The data collected does not include any personally identifiable details and is used to improve our services and administer our websites. Information Provided by the User Users may provide OVPIA with non-personally and personally identifiable information to utilize certain services and retrieve information. Such instances may not be noticeable to the user and include, but are not limited to, filling out surveys, completing registration information, and submitting certain online forms. Use of Information We use gathered information to track user trends and site usage to improve our visitors' experience and optimize our websites. We do not sell, trade, or rent your personal information to others. We may share your information across units within OVPIA or Cornell University, as appropriate. We may release account information when we believe, in good faith, that such release is reasonably necessary to: comply with law enforce or apply the terms of any of our user agreements or protect the rights, property, or safety of any office affiliated with OVPIA, Cornell University, our users, or others. Your Consent By using this website, you consent to the collection and use of this information by OVPIA, its units, and Cornell University as described above. If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page before the changes take effect. Of course, our use of information gathered while the current policy is in effect will always be consistent with the current policy, even if we change that policy later. If you have questions about this privacy policy, please contact us at communications@ovpia.cornell.edu. SSL and Security All information provided to OVPIA is transmitted using SSL (Secure Socket Layer) encryption. SSL is a proven coding system that allows your browser to automatically encrypt or scramble data before you send it to us. We also protect account information by placing it on a secure portion of our website that is only accessible by certain qualified employees of Cornell University. As effective as encryption technology is, however, no security system is completely impenetrable, so we cannot guarantee the absolute security of our database, nor can we guarantee that information you supply won't be intercepted while being transmitted to us over the internet. Email Marketing Marketing emails you may receive from OVPIA contain options to unsubscribe. However, certain internal or safety-related email messages delivered to all Cornell University community members will not include an opt-out option as these are considered critical internal communications. Social Media Presence If you share our content through social media, those social networks will record that you have done so and may set a cookie for this purpose. If you wish to opt-out of any of these social interactions, refer to the specific social media platform for instructions. Other Websites OVPIA websites contain links to each other and external websites. Please note that when you click on one of these links, you are entering another website for which OVPIA has no responsibility. We encourage you to read the privacy statements on all such sites as their policies may differ from ours. Contacting Us If you have any questions about this privacy policy, the practices of this website, or your dealings with this website, you can contact us by email at communications@ovpia.cornell.edu. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance