Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home African Book Talk Series - "Up & Ahead" by Sunny Bindra Events Past Event African Book Talk Series - "Up & Ahead" by Sunny Bindra Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 9, 2021 4:00 AM - 5:00 AM Online event Nairobi Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi is pleased to introduce our ongoing virtual book series featuring African authors! With this series, we hope to offer a platform where African writers can engage a global audience, offering not just their work but exciting perspectives on how personal, political, and cultural experiences drive their storytelling. UNLOCK THE POWER OF STRATEGY The strategist looks up and looks ahead. The strategist is not distracted by noise. The strategist wonders about the causes of things. The strategist painstakingly assembles the pieces to see the whole puzzle. This book is about making you that strategist. STRATEGY. We know we need to know it and use it. Yet this crucial life skill is often taught in complex and impractical ways. Sunny Bindra, with decades of international experience as a strategy advisor and straight-shooting writer and speaker, delivers simple and practical lessons to help you apply strategic thinking to your work and life. There are deep insights here, written with a light touch, to help you understand and use strategy. And once you put the book down, you won’t wait to get started with strategy in your life. For more about the book, join us virtually on 9th December 1.00 PM Nairobi/5.00 AM New York. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bio Wendy Njoroge Wendy Njoroge is a book curator, entrepreneur, community builder, and reading advocate who has formal and informal experience in the book industry in Kenya. As a bookseller and community builder, She served as the lead in marketing for the biggest bookshop chain in Kenya for five years, where she established & hosted the largest corporate-sponsored book club. Wendy has since transitioned to be an entrepreneur focused on filling market gaps of access and availability of books in Kenya under the brand Soma Nami Books. Soma Nami Books is a book lovers hub comprising a book club, bookstore, book subscription service, and book forum. As a curator at Books & Wine (a community of books and wine enthusiasts), Wendy drives the discoverability of books and literary works. The community interacts through the Books & Wine website, newsletter, social media, and regular events. As a reading advocate, driven by the conviction of books' transformative power, she is part of a trio that runs a vodcast (video podcast) named Things Fall Together, which uses literary works to highlight, interrogate and spark conversation about current issues in society. Expand all Collapse all Author Bio. Sunny Bindra Sunny Bindra works as a 'sense maker in which he helps leaders and organizations understand their worlds and succeed in them. He is a business advisor, writer, educator and public speaker, delivering his advisory services and unique business content. He advises chief executives and chairpersons in a select group of leading companies, helping them to develop strategic thinking and make radical change happen. His clients have ranged from giant banking groups to unusual startups, from those running transport networks in London to those managing disasters in Hawaii. In addition, he has advised on mergers and acquisitions in the UK and on digital strategies in Africa. He teaches board governance, strategy and leadership to chief executives and customer excellence to management teams. He pushes leaders to ignite innovation and get the best out of their people by considering them human beings, not human resources. Sunny heads Fast Forward, his leadership development program with a strong following amongst the region's elite business leaders. Sunny is a weekly columnist on the Sunday Nation. He has written Crown Your Customer, The Peculiar Kenyan and The Bigger Deal. His new book on strategy UP & AHEAD was released in November 2021. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close