Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home 'Pioneer Open Mic' Inaugural Event: AI + Education Events Past Event 'Pioneer Open Mic' Inaugural Event: AI + Education Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 17, 2021 2:00 PM - 6:30 PM Beijing Time: 2:00 - 6:30 PM (Beijing) 📍 Address: Z-Link+, 3F 39 Dongzhimen Outer St, Dongcheng District, Beijing Launched by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Center, the 'Pioneer Open Mic' business incubation program provides young entrepreneurs of Columbia University and other Ivy League schools with access to life-changing opportunities to empower their talents and passion for innovation. The first event of the program will focus on the application of artificial intelligence in the field of education. During this event, entrepreneurs from Columbia University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cornell University, and the University of Pennsylvania will share their entrepreneurial projects, stories, and visions. Representatives from the Beijing Center, Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Center, and presidents of Columbia alumni clubs in Hangzhou and Shenzhen will also attend the event and give remarks. Speakers Macheng Shen will share his technological breakthroughs in the field of natural language processing (NLP) and deep learning, as well as his entrepreneurial project "Tok2Me.ai". He will introduce the technology that can potentially revolutionize oral English language training, and explore new ways of human and AI dialogue. Hanxiang Wang, as a serial entrepreneur, will talk about his entrepreneurial stories in the education industry, and his "Instruct AI" project, integrating knowledge mapping, data science, and deep learning to improve the efficiency and quality of instructors. Lingjie Mei, after returning to China, is committed to building a team to provide Chinese enterprises with a complete mental health education and support software system to help enterprises and employees improve their psychological health. She will share her entrepreneurial projects, professional knowledge in psychology, and entrepreneurial visions. Liqian Yu and Shinong Ji are founders of the "Silver Hair Project". The team behind this project are graduates from the University of Pennsylvania. They use technological tools to create interactive teaching content for the elderly. This way, the elderly can improve their technological literacy and better engage with young people and modern society. Yu Liqian and Ji Shinong will share their entrepreneurial stories, motivation, and talk about the new life they are trying to create for the silver-haired people. Panelists Shengli Lu is a partner of E-Union Capital and worked at Hong Kong New Henderson International prior. Lu was named "2018 High-End Leader in Zhongguancun" and "China Investment Wisdom leader". He was awarded the "2016 China Youth Investment: 100 New Investors" and "China Youth Investment 100 Young Investors" in 2017. He has been invited as a guest by Beijing Satellite TV's "Creative China" program, Qingdao Satellite TV's "Maker Wins Dragon's Gate" program, Tianjin Satellite TV's "Entrepreneurial Chinese" program, and other media. Yao Zhang is the founder and CEO of "Turnip Spicy". She has a Doctor of Educational Economics from Columbia University. Zhang has worked for McKinsey consulting, Soros Foundation, etc. Her outstanding work in the field of educational innovation has won the "Best 10 Global Citizen Service Award" of the US State Department. She is a guest speaker of NSFA, GIC, and other top educational research and assessment associations, and columnist for the most important educational assessment and innovation think tank in the United States, Hechinger Institute. Agenda 1:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Sign in 2:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Opening Speech and Introduction 2:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Wang Hanxiang & Shen Macheng 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Open Mic Hours: Brainstorming open mic for everyone to present 4:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Mei Lingjie 4:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Yu Liqian & Ji Shinong 5:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Panel Discussion 6:00 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Open Mic Hours: Brainstorming open mic for everyone to present 6:30 p.m. Alumni Networking Party Reminders Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close