Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Fourth Women Leadership Panel: Women in Finance Events Past Event The Fourth Women Leadership Panel: Women in Finance Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 28, 2018 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing As women's participation expands in financial industry, female professionals are playing an increasing role in the field. It is important to hear the voice from experienced female leaders about their opinions on capturing opportunities and achieving both self-value and professional goals. On January 28, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will host its Fourth Women Leadership Panel with four experienced professionals in the financial industry. The panelists will share their stories and provide insights in this sector. Join us for an engaging panel discussion with female leaders in the financial industry. We welcome young professionals and anyone who is interested in pursuing careers in the industry to come engage and network with the panelists. Women Leadership Panel Series is initiated and hosted by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. It consists of a series of interactive panels designed to build an active network of Columbia alumni, especially female professional and leaders, to share learning, brainstorm ideas and approaches, address current challenges and opportunities, and support courageous and confident action. It will not only provide a platform to raise the profile of women professionals and leaders in various professions, but also build a dynamic circle for participants to learn from each other regarding issues and challenges, as well as to explore new paths to leadership and succeed even more. Speakers Vera Ji (Barnard '14) Ms. Vera Ji got her B.A. from Barnard College | Columbia University in 2014 with a dual degree in Economics and East Asia and Middle East Studies. She currently works at a CITIC CLSA fund as a senior investment manager with a focus in AI and healthcare industry. She is also the co-founder of MedCurius, a biotech company dedicated to research on early diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Mudi Liang (TC '15) Ms. Mudi Liang graduated from Columbia University with a master degree in Economics and Education, with full scholarship from China Scholarship Committee. Formerly worked for World Bank and Colorado State Government, Ms. Liang develops her interest in public sectors. She now serves as a researcher in China Securities Regulation Committee, with frontier regulation experience in Shanghai Stock Exchange. Ms. Liang focuses on US-China financial regulation policy comparative study, investor behavior study, and market information analysis. She has conducted policy recommendations directly reported to senior officials in central government. Jessica Li Ms. Jessica Li is Co-founder and CEO of Brilliance Asset management Company. She holds a master from The PBC School of Finance, Tsinghua University and a MBA from Cornell University. She has lots of investment and trading experience in domestic securities companies and currently focuses on macro hedge, fixed income and quantitative analysis, dedicated to applying AI technology to investment strategies. Jessica has won Best Women Leader of 2016-2017 Hedge Fund Jiefu Awards. Kerry Qu Partner at INB Capital, a fund focusing on early stage blockchain investment. Kerry holds a B.A. in Art History from Harvard University with a secondary in Economics. Prior to joining INB, she worked at Goldman Sachs and her family business. She was also the founder of Qu Art Associates, an art consultancy and collection. She grew up in Beijing China, and had worked as a teenage anchor and young journalist for six years at CCTV China Central Television Station. She has experience in both the traditional and crypto finance spheres, and has advised many blockchain startups on their strategy in China. Moderator April Wang (TC '17) April Wang graduated from Columbia University, with double degrees in Mass Communication & Education. She currently works at Toutiao as a product manager with a focus in global strategies and user growth. Formerly, April served as a digital marketing manager in U.S. local agencies, helping clients such as Microsoft and eBay with their global marketing strategies. April holds double bachelor degrees from University of Wisconsin- Madison in Economics & Mass Communication. Time January 28th, Sunday 3:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Agenda 2:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Registration 3:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Panel Discussion 4:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Q&A Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close