Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Life with Covid-19: What will be the New ‘Normal’? Istanbul Life with Covid-19: What will be the New ‘Normal’? Assoc. Prof. Özge Karadağ-Çaman has noted that the ones who have set a certain goal for themselves and work to reach that goal can get over Covid-19 quarantine more easily. “There is no room for hopelessness,” she has warned. Editor's note: Read the full article at the Bianet here. By Evrim Kepenek April 28, 2020 Assoc. Prof. Özge Karadağ-Çaman from Columbia University Center for Sustainable Development (CSD) in the US has met her audience in an online conference organized by the Columbia Global Centers. Sharing her observations regarding how the Covid-19 pandemic has been affecting our daily lives and how it will define a new "normal" for our public health, Karadağ-Çaman was in discussion with Columbia Global Centers Istanbul Director İpek Cem-Taha. İpek Cem-Taha also shared the questions that came before and during the event with Karadağ-Çaman. Some highlights from the conference are as follows: 'Turkey needs to take more radical decisions' Coronavirus measures: Every country has a different strategy. Some countries have managed to keep the number of cases very limited by quickly closing their borders and entirely breaking their connection with the outside world on land, sea and air. Then, they have detected the number of cases inside their countries, imposed isolations and quarantines. These countries have not yet opened to the outside world. At this point, the number of cases is very important, just as the cultural characteristics of countries are also crucial. As cultural characteristics of countries differ from one to one another, reactions vary too. For instance, when you announce restrictions to civil populations, the ones in the Far East - based on their experiences from previous outbreaks as well - act far more quickly. They collaborate and take individual responsibility. In comparison, in Mediterranean countries that enjoy socializing, being outside and neighbourliness. These often act more loosely when implementing the measures that need to be taken individually. If the number of cases is high in a country, curfews can be imposed for a certain period of time, varying from 20 days to a month. Karadağ-Çaman observes that in those countries where curfews are more strict, control can be established more quickly and in a shorter time. In many places, markets stayed open, pharmacies stayed open and people were allowed to go to the market or pharmacy whenever they wanted. I think that it is important as well. When you restrict the number of people inside the pharmacy by square meter and obligate people to wear masks, it is, in fact, doable. We have also seen that. For instance, in Italy, only one person could leave the house. He or she had to be wearing a mask. When that person went to the market, he or she queued up outside by keeping a distance of two meters if the market was small and there had to be two people inside the market the most. One person left the market, and the next one could then enter. If a country’s measures are this efficient, it is then possible to impose a curfew with markets and pharmacies open and public transportation still operating. Therefore, Karadağ-Çaman suggests that by analyzing these models, new things can be adopted for Turkey. She adds that more radical measures can shorten the course of the outbreak. 'There is no room for hopelessness' Karadağ-Çaman’s recommendations are hopeful. She says that “there is no room for hopelessness.” Although the situation has many uncertainties, there are also many things that we know. Our knowledge is growing with each passing day. To Karadağ-Çaman, we must accept that the period that we live in is an advantageous one. In today’s world, we have communication, the Internet, scientists and decision-makers who are able to communicate all the time, and we can work from home. By using technology, Karadağ-Çaman suggests it is possible for us to offer our services in a different way. She recommends that everyone who has time these days should read about other outbreaks in history and about past experiences. She also recommends setting goals for ourselves in order to keep track of our personal progress in this tumultuous time. Tags Istanbul Istanbul Press News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close