Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Samantha Seto, MILI'20, earned her Master's Degree in history and literature in Paris Paris Samantha Seto, MILI'20, earned her Master's Degree in history and literature in Paris Seto participates in a Q&A session about her experiences as a student in the MA in History and Literature program in Paris. October 08, 2019 Tell us a little about yourself. Where are you from? Where did you do your undergraduate degree? I am from Washington, District of Columbia in the United States. I live in a row house near Georgetown and within walking distance to the White House. I live with my family. It is also the home of my lovely Russian-blue cat. I graduated from the Johns Hopkins University in December 2017 with a bachelor’s of arts degree in Writing Seminars (with Honors) and a minor in the History of Art. I am primarily interested in fiction, poetry, memoir, and novels. My writing is published in The Washington Post “letter to the editor,” The Yale Journal for Humanities in Medicine, Pleiades, and The Los Angeles Review. As an undergraduate, I wrote articles and took photographs for The Johns Hopkins News-Letter in addition to writing for The Hopkins Dialectic. I have also worked at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Library of Congress, Duke University TIP, Peace Corps, Folger Shakespeare Library, National Museum of American History, and the U.S. House of Representatives. Why did you choose the MA HiLi Program? Why Paris? In Columbia University’s MA in History and Literature Program, I wish to strengthen my research skills, learn about French academia, and have good intellectual exchange while being immersed in French culture. I admire the rich history in France and will attend museums, cathedrals, libraries, and the American Church in Paris. After I earn my master’s degree from this program, I hope to pursue a PhD in Literature. Ever since I was a little girl, I have always loved Paris. It’s a beautiful city. I visited Paris when I was twelve years old with my family. I don’t remember very much, only that I visited the Eiffel Tower and the Palace of Versailles. Yet it was very perfect and lovely. I knew I wanted to visit again one day. As an undergraduate in college, I studied basic French. I learned to read, write, and speak the language. I have also been classically trained as a ballerina during my child to teenage years, in which my ballet instructors used French words like “cou-de-pied,” “pas de bourrée,” “glissade,” “pas de chat,” “relevé,” “pirouette,” “tendu,” “fouetté,” etc. I am able to finally share my love for French language, culture, and history this year in Paris. What classes are you taking this year? At the Université Paris-Sorbonne, I am taking a British literature class. The course is titled “Littérature britannique XIXe-XXIe siècles”. We are reading Foucault, Lacan, Ricoeur, Mary Shelley, Margaret Atwood, Aldous Huxley, George Orwell, and more. I love being an American foreign student in the class. My class is at La Maison de la Recherche in Quartier Saint-Germain-des-Prés. Have you chosen a subject yet for your master's thesis? My master’s thesis is focused on the female narrator or character in 19th-20th century British and French literature. I will analyze the short stories written by Charles Dickens and Guy de Maupassant. What are you especially looking forward to doing this year in Paris? I am most looking forward to embracing French culture, living independently, taking classes at a French university, visiting the Louvre and Musée d’Orsay, watching the ballet at L’Opera Garnier, and making new friends. I also want to travel within France to many cities. And I hope to visit my cousin in the Netherlands and my family in Finland. Where are you living in Paris and what do you think the city so far? I live in a studio apartment on rue Notre-Dame-des-Champs. I love the bakeries, cafés, and flower shops nearby and walking in the Jardin du Luxembourg. It’s really close to Reid Hall. I love Paris. It is a dream come true every day. I am blessed to be studying abroad in Europe this year. I am lucky to be able to earn my master’s degree in Paris. I admire the rich French history, literature, and art as well as the cathedrals, universities, musuems, cafés, and more. It is the perfect place to be. Tags Paris Stories MA Hili CGC Stories: Students News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close