Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Breadcrumb Home Resources Funding Opportunities for Faculty and Students International Cornell Curriculum Grants International Cornell Curriculum Grants Important deadlines: Letters of intent: June 15 Full applications: July 15 Grants awarded: August 22 Global Cornell is offering International Cornell Curriculum (ICC) grants of between $20,000 and $30,000 to create, develop, or improve curricula that provide students with international experiences, preferably with linkages to Cornell’s Global Hubs strategic partners or locations. Upcoming: Info Session Save the date! Join us for a virtual ICC Grant Info Session on Thursday, June 2 from 12–1 p.m. ET. Zoom link, registration is not required Add to Outlook calendar Add to Google calendar Request for Proposals ICC grants will support the planning, development, or advancement of new or existing for-credit, tuition-bearing courses, including the: incorporation of faculty-led short-term international experiences (with travel) into existing courses. joint development of a course in partnership with an international partner, providing an opportunity for students and faculty in different countries to collaborate on coursework, projects, or discussions as part of their coursework. teaching of new, in-person semester-long courses to be taught abroad, which will be open to Cornell students and possibly to international partner students. Note: A summary of models for consideration is available below. Courses should be offered in concert with international partners abroad. We will preference applications that connect to partners in one of our Global Hubs institutions, but we are open to partnerships in alternate locations where Cornell has existing strong local connections. Please consider interdisciplinary, cross-college curricular innovations that incorporate experiential work with local partners. Most importantly, sustainable, long-term engagement is our goal. Eligibility and Instructions for Submission Applicants must be tenure track or RTE Cornell faculty. Applications must have the approval and expressed support of the department chair(s) of all faculty member(s) involved. Use of Grant Funds A $1,500 non-salary stipend per instructor (up to three instructors) for discretionary costs is allowed for each project. The instructor stipend may be provided to an international partner, a host community organization, or an NGO partner for their assistance in the program planning phase or to offset their investment in the partnership. Travel expenses to the site for course development (please do not include costs for instructors to lead the course or for students to participate in the course). Costs to run program development workshops with international partner institution and/or host community organization or NGO. Curriculum development costs (e.g., AV aids, course materials, hiring graduate students to assist in course development. Up to 10 percent of the proposed budget may be allocated to a discretionary line to allow for budgetary flexibility over the course of the grant. ICC grants are not intended to support: standalone graduate-level courses that are not open to undergraduate students. activities that are not sustainable beyond the grant period. student tuition or travel expenses. Application Process By June 15, 2022, submit a letter of intent (LOI) using the LOI template available in Box (login required) to iccgrants@cornell.edu. The LOI does not need to include budget information. If you have questions in preparing your LOI, senior staff from the Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs (OVPIA) may be able to provide points of connectivity at Cornell or within a partner institution or help you strengthen your submission. Reach out to iccgrants@cornell.edu and let us know what support you need (e.g., partner identification, collaborators on campus working in similar areas, program model explanations). We will connect you with the OVPIA team member who is best suited to assist. After receiving LOI feedback from the review committee, applicants who are invited to submit a full proposal will complete the online application form using a link that will be shared and will outline further details about the project and a budget using the budget template available in Box (login required). Members of the OVPIA team will be available for support as you work through this process. Faculty must also include a letter of support from the department chair(s) of all participating faculty member(s), prepared using the letter of support template available in Box (login required). Please reach out to Sebnem Ozkan with questions about the application process. Award Details Funding will be distributed by Global Cornell to the primary faculty recipient by departmental fund transfer. The department is responsible for the management of the grant, sustainability of the course, and required project reporting to OVPIA. Potential Models for Consideration Course(s) with Short-term Faculty-led International Travel Component The timing and length of travel depend on the options below. Credits are dependent on the mode of instruction, hours, and length. Possible models for incorporating travel into a course: Faculty-Led Spring Course Credits Earned: Spring Credits: 3–5 Travel Takes Place: Spring Break Length of Travel: approximately one week Features: A spring break-only trip will not qualify for academic credit on its own, but it can be included as an embedded part of the on-campus course. These courses usually have some instruction delivered before and after departure. The course is designed and led by one (or more) Cornell faculty member(s) who travel abroad with a group of Cornell students. This model offers students a direct and supervised short-term international experience. It is ideal for students who want an experience that mirrors Cornell’s academic standards. There are two options: 1) All students are required to complete both on-campus and abroad components, or 2) the abroad component is optional and for additional credit. In both cases: There is no additional tuition charge because built into the semester load The course may fit into the faculty's load or college agrees to pay overload, or the faculty takes overload without course compensation The student costs including program fee and airfare are covered by participants and/or supported by other funding sources Faculty travel costs are paid by Global Cornell or other funding sources or built into the cost for students Sandwich Course (fall and spring courses that sandwich around winter travel) Credits Earned: Spring Credits: 3–5 Travel Takes Place: Winter break Length of Travel: Approximately two weeks Features: This is a winter break trip embedded as part of a "sandwiched" on-campus course. The course is designed and led by one (or more) Cornell faculty member(s) who also travel abroad with a group of Cornell students. This model offers students a direct and supervised short-term international experience. Ideal for students who want an experience that mirrors Cornell’s academic standards. Fall course (full semester or second 7-week), winter break field trip, and spring course (full semester or first 7-week) Students must complete all three of the course components for credit and grade There is no additional tuition charge because the course is built into the semester load The course may fit into the faculty's load or college agrees to pay overload, or the faculty takes overload without course compensation The student costs including program fee and airfare are covered by participants and/or supported by other funding sources Faculty travel costs are paid by Global Cornell or other funding sources or built into the cost for students Standalone Summer or Winter Course with Travel to an International Location Travel Takes Place: Summer or winter Length of Travel: Can vary from ~one week up to eight weeks Features: The grant applicant should guarantee that there will be funds from other sources to provide all students equitable access to summer or winter courses since currently, institutional grant aid is not available for these semesters. With one or more international partners or faculty Credits dependent on the mode of instruction, hours, and length Students pay tuition and travel and program fees Faculty travel costs are paid by Global Cornell or built into the cost to students Online Learning and Virtual Education Attributes and timing: One or more international partners Fall or semester course With or without a travel component Length of travel: Dependent on design Other features: Collaborations are developed by partnering faculty (one Cornell faculty member partnering with a minimum of one partner institution faculty member) who want to enrich their courses with student interaction and collaborative learning. Faculty work together to design and implement the collaboration; there’s flexibility to customize and include interdisciplinary approaches. Cornell issues Cornell students' credit; partner institution issues partner students' credit. Faculty-to-faculty collaboration on course planning, design, and implementation. Students from two or more institutions collaborate in discussions and/or a project. The course can be synchronous or asynchronous. Credits are dependent on the mode of instruction, hours, and length. Courses should be technologically innovative. The course can have international travel add-on potential. On-site Course Instruction at Partner University Attributes and timing: Varies by location The ideal is a Cornell course and credit with the possibility of cross-listing with partner courses of study. Length of travel: Semester-long course First or second 7-week session Embedded into partner’s course (seminar) structure (two to three weeks) Other features: Department counts teaching toward teaching load obligations Open to Cornell and non-Cornell students Co-teaching possibility with partner faculty Engaged and applied learning opportunities Course design and development for Cornell and/or partner exchange students Attributes and timing: With one or more international partners or faculty Taught at partner university or Cornell, or both Length of travel: Semester-long First or second 7-week session at Cornell Pre-term teaching module at Cornell or partner university Other features: Diverse course foci could include multidisciplinary, intercultural, engaged learning, language, and culture, history (local and national), and graduate school preparation. Demonstrable unique student learning outcomes Benefits for other campus stakeholders Note: Other models are possible, but not part of this call for proposals. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance