Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Travel Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support This page and provided links are for general guidance and procedures to ensure any and all travel runs smoothly round trip. Before You Go! World Travel is the preferred method to book all travel. Select Penn Global Business Office as your approver when reservations are made. (PGBUSINESSOFFICE@lists.upenn.edu) Link to World Travel Website: World Travel Website It is Penn Global policy to submit a Travel Notification Form to your director for any travel related to Penn Global activities. Each form below will be routed to your departement director and the business office for review. If any part of your trip includes personal travel, please refer to our policy provided at the bottom of this page and fill out the personal travel section of the form. Submit your Travel Notification Form below by selecting your department! Penn Abroad ISSS PWH Global Initiatives Concur Concur is the University's preferred method of booking travel and submitting expenses. The Below links are step by step guides on how to navigate and utilize this application. The link below is our one page at-a-glance Concur guide that addresses the most common questions regarding Concur expense reports: Concur One-Page Guide If the guide does not answer your questions, please see the below links for additional troubleshooting: Click on any of these links below for step by step tutorials Book travel through Concur Create a detailed expense report Importing Penn Travel Card expenses Enter non-reimbursable expenses Add attendees to a business meal Entering per diem for meals (use Penn Global Calculator in travel form box) Attach a receipt Use your smartphone to attach receipts Itemize an expense Itemize a hotel expense Apply travel advance to expense report Concur mobile app set up If you need to account for any alcohol on your trip, please refer to our Concur guide and itemize any alcohol using the "Itemize an expense" tutorial above. Link to Concur Login: Concur Login Submitting Your Completed Expense Report Before you submit your report, double check the following: EXCEPTION WARNINGS attempt to fix any exceptions or if they cannot be fixed, provide detail as to why. Do not submit any report with exception warnings without contacting the Business Office. The registration form for all conferences attended Use of Proper Naming Conventions (Date, Conference Name, City) Only one event or trip is submitted per expense report Applicable per diems were listed on the travel form Any alcohol or non-reimbursable items are itemized and correct worksheet is attached Detailed and itemized receipts are attached for all expenses Tipping Below is the formal Penn Global tipping policy. Penn Global staff is reimbursed for the tips for meals, transportation, and hotel workers when the tips are in accordance with accepted tipping standards. Tipping is generally not required for business meeting delivery. No tip should be given if a delivery fee is charged. If a tip is given, it is not to exceed $10.00. Tipping Standards: 15-20% for meals and transportation; $1 - $2 for hotel workers Amtrak Penn Global's preferred method of booking train tickets is via Procard. Provide your notes for any Amtrak purchase in your JP Morgan PaymentNet account before Thursday of each week. Train tickets may be booked through World Travel, but there is a 3rd party fee charged when booking through Concur. Amtrak tickets CAN be purchased without an extra fee on amtrak.com by either the Travel Card or the Pcard, which card used is up to departmental discretion. Personal Travel If adding any personal travel to a business trip, first and foremost, it must be detailed on the submitted Travel Request Form. The PG Business Office must have the beginning and ending dates for the personal portion of the travel. When booking a business trip with a personal vacation built in there are two options for purchasing an airline ticket: Direct Bill You may direct bill the airfare portion of your trip by booking in Concur or with World Travel. If your itinerary includes flights that are for personal vacation, such as a side trip to another city/country, you will be responsible for submitting a check to the University for the expense associated with that part of the flight itinerary. On day of booking, print the booked itinerary with its cost that includes extra stops. On day of booking, print the flight and associated cost if the additional stops were not added. This should be the least logical airfare for that business related flight. Write a check to The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania for the difference in cost, provide both itineraries and submit to your Business Office for deposit. Penn Travel Card or Personal Credit Card You may book the entire trip on a credit card. You will then file an expense report for reimbursement. Steps: On day of booking, print the booked itinerary with its cost that includes extra stops. On day of booking, print the flight and associated cost if the additional stops were not added. This should be the least logical airfare for that business-related flight. In your Concur expense report, select Airfare as the expense type and enter the entire amount of the itinerary that was ticketed. Select Itemize and enter Airfare for the reimbursable portion of the flight, and enter Non-Reimbursable for the personal portion of that flight. The Non-Reimbursable portion will be the difference better the two business-related flight and the flight with the personal portion included. Note: Any flight charges and fees associated with ANY flight changes are considered non-reimbursable unless the change was made upon Penn’s request. When Traveling with Family Whenever possible, use a personal credit card (not the Penn Travel Card) for family expenses such as meals and transportation. IMPORTANT: In all cases, if family is accompanying the Penn individual on the trip, their airline tickets must be purchased using a personal credit card. Neither the direct bill nor the Penn Travel Card are acceptable forms of payment for family airline tickets. If the Penn Travel Card is used for any expenses that include the family, such as a meal, the traveler is required to: Enter the total amount of the expense on the line item in Concur. Itemize the expense line item in Concur with the reimbursable portion being the expense incurred by the business traveler and the non-reimbursable portion being the remainder of the cost. Pay the credit card directly and promptly for any non-reimbursable expenses put on the card. 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy