Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing What We Do Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Local Partners CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN CHINA Serving as a hub for the Columbia community abroad and at home, Beijing Global Center is committed to equipping the university students with global experience and local opportunities through our partner network, helping them fulfill individual values, and assisting with their career development. To provide high-quality career opportunities to Columbia students, especially during the COVID-19 global crisis that tightens the labor market, the Beijing Center has launched a program that enables students to get job vacancies and internship information at our partner companies/organizations online since June 2020. Expand all Collapse all April 9, 2022 UPDATES Check out the latest job and internship opportunities at MiraclePlus ( 奇绩创坛 ) and Celestial Tech ( 牵星科技 ). For further details, CLICK HERE. March 19, 2022 UPDATES Check out the latest job and internship opportunities at Kreab Beijing ( 凯睿安达 ) and goetzpartners ( 意志高驰 ). For further details, CLICK HERE. January 8, 2022 UPDATES Check out the latest job and internship opportunities at Beijing BISS International School ( 北京BISS国际学校 ) and Yintaihuaying Investment ( 银泰华盈投资有限公司 ) in Beijing. For further details, CLICK HERE. December 18, 2021 UPDATES Check out the latest job and internship opportunities at Beijing BISS International School ( 北京BISS国际学校 ) and Tishman Speyer ( 铁狮门 ) in Shanghai. For further details, CLICK HERE. November 13, 2021 UPDATES Check out the latest job and internship opportunities at ISA International Education Group ( 爱莎国际教育集团 ), Basis International Schools ( 贝赛思国际学校 ) in China, and Columbia University School of Professional Studies ( 哥伦比亚大学专业研究学院 ) in Beijing. For further details, CLICK HERE. October 16, 2021 UPDATES Check out the latest job and internship opportunities at Fosun Group ( 复星集团 ), and Energy Foundation China ( 能源基金会 ). For further details, CLICK HERE. STUDENT CAREER DEVELOPMENT In the face of global challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemics, the student's future development has been at the center of the Beijing Center's priorities since 2020. We offer Columbia students and alumni a variety of career development services, including virtual career fairs, industry insight panels, weekly job release columns, and global virtual internship initiatives to help them explore career interests, fulfill professional needs, and advance individual career competence. We are committed to creating an exclusive platform for Columbia talents to connect with employers faster and more directly. In partnership with Columbia Engineering Graduate Career Placement Center, GSAS Compass, SPS Career Design Lab, and CBS Career Management Center, we've designed and delivered 8 virtual career fairs tailored to different schools and programs providing over 1,800 current students and alumni with first-hand professional resources and one-on-one networking opportunities. Virtual Career Fairs in Numbers Student Feedback Spring 2021 Quantitative Finance Virtual China Career Fair Mar. 26, 2021 I want to extend my great appreciation to you for coordinating such an incredible career fair, which helped me quickly navigate the local labor markets, and connect to employers directly. You guys helped me a lot in my job search. I look forward to seeing more career events like this in the future. —— Allison Yan SPS’22 The virtual career fair is a great platform for students and employers. There were many promising career opportunities, and loads of information from the attending companies. —— Jingchen HU SEAS '21 For a student who is a year away from graduation, this career fair gave me a clearer vision of where I stand now and what I should do next to achieve my goal. —— Shibo ZHAO SEAS '22 Employer Feedback The virtual career fair was tremendously helpful to Abelian. I graduated from SEAS a couple of years ago, and I am always eager to recruit SEAS alumni. More than 15 students have submitted their resumes. —— Zhao JIN SEAS '13, Abelian Technologies The event went far beyond our expectations. Columbia Engineering students and alumni are very enthusiastic. Many of them have added me on WeChat to find out more about jobs and how to apply. Thank you, the Beijing Center, for organizing this successful event! —— Merico We always appreciate Columbia students’ intelligence and achievements. And thank you again for your great support for this event! I had a great time talking with over 30 talented students from Columbia Engineering in the ByteDance group session, which genuinely helps with our campus recruitment. —— ByteDance Columbia Global Centers | Beijing is a truly Pro partner in helping us continuously recruit talents. Our campus recruitment team hopes to move the partnership to the next level by trying to co-design a Tencent-Columbia Internship Initiative for all the Columbia students and alumni in the future. —— Tencent Fall 2021 SPS Virtual China Career Fair Sep. 15, 2021 School Feedback Fall 2021 SEAS Virtual China Career Fair Oct. 12, 2021 It is a wonderful partnership and we appreciate everything that you provide seen and unseen. We couldn't achieve this level of success without your expertise. —— SPS Career Design Lab Thank you so much, the Beijing Center team, for putting this together and recruiting the employers. My students told me that they were really excited with the lineup. —— Izabela Rutkowski, Associate Director, Graduate Career Development at M.A. Program in Mathematics of Finance Thank you again for making this career fair an incredible success! Your team makes these events look so easy to pull off and I know how much work goes into them. —— Columbia Engineering Graduate Career Placement Center PREVIOUS OPENINGS A platform based on WeChat, Beijing Global Center regularly releases recruitment and intern information from enterprises, organizations, and institutions, many of which were founded by Columbia alumni. May 16, 2020 May 9, 2020 May 2, 2020 April 25, 2020 April 24, 2020 Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close