Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Air pollution in Nairobi and other emerging African megacities: sources, sampling, and solutions Events Past Event Air pollution in Nairobi and other emerging African megacities: sources, sampling, and solutions Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Air Pollution in Nairobi February 23, 2021 5:00 PM - 6:30 PM Online Event Nairobi. Air pollution causes millions of premature deaths and a host of illnesses in the world’s cities each year. This is especially true in sub-Saharan Africa, where sparse air pollution monitoring imparts high uncertainty to estimates of exposure and impact. Five hundred million African children live in areas with no reliable air quality monitoring. This second session in our healthy cities webinar series will discuss some emerging efforts to rectify this large air pollution data gap using surface monitoring, remote sensing, and air quality modeling, with a focus on Nairobi. Speakers will also discuss solutions and pathways forward for reducing the health burden from air pollution in Africa. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bio Dr. Daniel M. Westervelt Dr. Daniel Dr. Daniel M. Westervelt is currently an Associate Research Scientist at Columbia University’s Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory in Palisades, NY. In addition, he is a Columbia University Climate and Life Fellow leading a project on air pollution and climate change in Africa. he is also an affiliated scientist with the NASA Goddard Institute of Space Studies in New York, NY, and an air pollution advisor to the US State Department. Prior to Lamont, Dr. Daniel M. Westervelt worked as a Science, Technology, and Environmental Policy (STEP) postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University. Expand all Collapse all Panelist Bio Dr. Godwin Opinde Dr. Godwin Opinde Dr. Godwin Opinde Holds a PhD in Environmental Planning and Management. His research interests are air quality management, Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation, Waste Management, Transport Planning & Environmental Governance. He is currently partnering with colleagues from Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory of the Earth Institute, Columbia University, in air quality Monitoring projects in the East Africa Region. Dr Opinde is a Lecturer at the Department of Environmental Planning & Management, Kenyatta University where he lectures courses in his area of research interest. He is also the Chair of Environmental Compliance Institute, A non-governmental organization that is involved in air quality management projects/ programs in the East African region in partnership with UN Environment, National Authorities, Local Authorities and other Non-governmental Organizations with common interest. Priyanka deSouza priyanka desouza Priyanka deSouza is a PhD candidate at the Department of Urban Studies and Planning working on air pollution. She has a Bachelor and Master of Technology in Energy Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (2013), an MSc in Environmental Change and Management (2014), and an MBA (2015) from the University of Oxford where she studied as a Rhodes Scholar. In 2015-2016, she worked at UNEP where she was responsible for deploying a low-cost air quality monitoring network in Nairobi. Prof. Michael J. Gatari (PhD) Prof. Michael J. Gatari (PhD) Prof. Michael J. Gatari has a Ph.D. in Environmental Science with a specialization in Physics, a Diploma from European Research Course on Atmospheres, and a licentiate in Environmental Physics. He is an Associate Professor in Applications of Nuclear Science Techniques, and teaches/lectures and supervises students undertaking master of Science in Nuclear Science and technology, multidiscipline graduate program. He is a member of Association for Aerosol Research (GAeF), the American Association for Aerosol Research (AAAR), European Physical Society (EPS), European X-Ray Spectroscopy (EXRS), and the Non-Destructive Testing (NDT) Society in Kenya. His is widely experienced in aerosol science technology and measurement, and has attended over 15 related pre-conference tutorials. He chaired the working group that drafted the ABC-Africa whitepaper and was appointed a co-chairman of ABC-Africa by the UNEP ABC Science Committee. The bulk of his research activities involves air quality/aerosol studies, mainly in Kenya. Dr. Darby Jack Dr. Darby Jack Darby Jack, Ph.D., studies environmental health risks in developing countries, the health impacts of climate change, and the role of the urban environment in shaping health. He is in the Department of Environmental Health Sciences. For the last several years his primary focus has been the health effects of exposure to indoor air pollution from biomass fuels. With support from the Center for Environmental Health in Northern Manhattan, he has helped to develop a Columbia-wide biomass working group, which coordinates and supports interdisciplinary research on the topic. These collaborations have given rise to current efforts to measure the health benefits of clean cookstoves in Ghana. In New York, he is collaborating with exposure scientists to estimate the effects of air pollution exposures on people who commute by bicycle. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close