Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Mexico Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Breadcrumb Home Global Hubs Mexico Mexico Partner University Tecnológico de Monterrey Founded in 1943, Tecnológico de Monterrey (Tec) is recognized as the top private nonprofit university in Mexico. Tec has since grown to 31 campuses across 25 Mexican cities, offering high school, undergraduate, and graduate programs at most locations. The flagship Monterrey campus in Nuevo León includes an experimental agricultural station, athletic facilities, a theater, and 50 laboratories. The campus also hosts many cultural events and symposiums throughout the year. The campus in Mexico City has been active since the 1950s. Academic Programs at Tec Enrollment: 92,650 High school students: 27,470 Undergraduate students: 58,365 Graduate students: 6,815 About Tec About the Locations Monterrey, Nuevo León Nuevo León is in northeast Mexico and shares a border with the United States. The state's geography spans the Great Plains, Rio Grande River, and Sierra Madre Mountain range. Located in a valley of the Sierra Madre, the Monterrey area is the second-largest metropolitan area in Mexico with a population of five million. Home to many major Mexican and international businesses, Monterrey is semi-arid and is one of the warmest cities in Mexico. The region features many publicly accessible trails that cross a variety of terrains, including deserts and forests. Mexico City Mexico City is the capital of Mexico and the largest city in the country. Centrally located, the city proper has a population of more than nine million in about 575 square miles. Greater Mexico City, which includes 60 adjacent municipalities, has more than 20 million residents making it one of the largest metropolitan areas in North America. Located in the Valley of Mexico, the city is surrounded by mountains and volcanoes. The historic city center, Centro Histórico, has been designated as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. For more information please contact globalhubs@cornell.edu Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance