Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Support Penn Global Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Penn Global is the University’s go-to for all things global. Driven by the University’s second Global Strategic Framework, Penn Global aims to 1) educate global citizens by providing a meaningful global experience to every Penn student, 2) catalyze transformative ideas by empowering the University community to address global issues; and 3) bring the world to Penn and Penn to the world. We work closely with Penn’s 12 Schools and numerous centers to transform the University into a comprehensive global institution, poised to make an impact across communities at Penn and around the world. A gift in support of Penn’s global priorities enables the University to: ensure that all Penn students have a meaningful global experience as part of their Penn education, secure the success of our thriving international student body, enable Penn research and insights to set the agendas for critical global issues, and deploy Penn research and expertise in almost 200 countries around the world. Inspired by the University’s long-standing commitment to an ethos of global engagement, Penn is more focused now than ever in ensuring that best and brightest from around the world pick Penn and that Penn faculty and students are positioned to engage with partners around the world. Gifts in support of Penn’s global priorities go directly into funding global research and supporting students and faculty in all 12 schools. Specific donation opportunities are outlined below. General Support Opportunities Penn Global Fund The University’s go-to for all things global, Penn Global provides strategic direction for Penn’s global endeavors, with a focus on the efficient investment of university resources for global activities. Seven divisions make up Penn Global: the Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives, Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, Perry World House, Penn Abroad, International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS), Global Support Services, and Penn Global Finance and Administration. Each division collaborates with partners at Penn and around the world to develop innovative interdisciplinary global strategies, initiatives and projects. Contributions will support Penn Global’s strategic efforts, from piloting new global student programs and strengthening support mechanisms for our international students, to expanding existing opportunities for faculty research and engagement. Your support will enable Penn Global to effectively support the global endeavors of the Penn community and elevate Penn’s institutional impact at a global stage. Support Penn Global Perry World House General Operating & Programming Gift Fund Perry World House is the hub for global engagement on Penn’s campus. Located at 38th and Locust Walk, Perry World House brings the world to Penn, taking Penn scholarship and ideas out to the world to improve policy responses to critical global issues. Contributions will support the overall operation of Perry World House, including its weekly current events program, The World Today; student programming, including Global Career Week, the World House Student Fellows program, and our Graduate Associates program; our extensive Visiting Fellows and Scholars program; and our thematic focused colloquia and workshops throughout the year. Support Perry World House Support Global Student Programs & Initiatives Penn International Student Integration Program Penn is deeply committed to ensuring that our international students thrive on campus. Led by a committed and growing integration team in Penn’s office for International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS), efforts to help international students succeed have led to the development or expansion of innovative programming. From Forerunner, Penn’s pioneering overseas pre-departure program, to the award-winning Intercultural Leadership Program, designed to foster a community of intercultural leaders, ISSS collaborates with partners across campus – including student groups and Penn centers – to provide the resources, support, and community in which international students can flourish throughout their lives at Penn. Contributions will support various integration-related programs offerings, including Forerunner, the Intercultural Leadership Program, Intercultural Dialogues: Engagement and Awareness (IDEA) program, the iCommunicate intercultural communication training program, welcome and orientation activities, end-of-year celebrations, networking, social, and skills-based programs, and expanding partnerships with groups invested in the well-being and growth of international students. Your support will also enable Penn to address the emergent needs of Penn’s international student community through new programming, outreach initiatives, and personnel development. Support the Penn International Student Integration Program Study Abroad & Global Opportunities Fund Every year, Penn sends nearly 3,000 students abroad on credit-bearing global programs and co-curricular experiential learning opportunities. As part of our commitment to providing a meaningful global experience to every Penn student, Penn Abroad offers a wide array of programming options to meet the needs and aspirations of its diverse student body. From semester and academic year study abroad and incoming exchange, to short-term internship, research and study opportunities, each of Penn Abroad’s flagship programs are designed to enhance students’ academic and professional careers while building their cross-cultural competence and ability to engage with the world as global citizens and future leaders. Penn Abroad is committed to increasing access among its programs to ensure that every Penn student, especially those typically underrepresented in global programming, has an opportunity to pursue a meaningful global experience while at Penn. Contributions to Penn Global’s Study Abroad and Global Opportunities Fund will directly support existing global programs or new initiatives that are responsive to the needs of all Penn students, regardless of financial need, and are creatively designed to enrich the quality and diversity of student global opportunities offered on campus. Support Study Abroad & Global Opportunities Penn Global Research and Internship Program Each summer, the Global Research and Internship Program (GRIP) sends nearly 200 students abroad to enhance their career potential in an increasingly global workplace through transformative work and research experience. Our most competitive overseas student program, GRIP provides outstanding undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to intern or conduct research with a variety of organizations and companies in dozens of countries around the world for 8 to 12 weeks over the summer. GRIP internships and research projects attract students from all majors and are based in non- and for-profit entities in a wide variety of industries including arts and culture, entrepreneurship, computer science, education, information technology, public policy, venture capital, and many more. Contributions will facilitate increased access to the program for students from diverse backgrounds and will directly support student interns, covering the costs of international travel, housing abroad, and expenses for the duration of their internship. Your support will be critical to the growth of the Global Research and Internship Program and to our broader efforts to offer these unique opportunities to those who seek a meaningful global experience. Support GRIP Penn Global Seminars Penn Global Seminars (PGS) are transforming the undergraduate educational experience at Penn, combining intensive semester-long study with a short-term travel component to deepen students’ understanding of concepts discussed in the classroom. Penn Global Seminars are courses taught over 14 weeks at Penn with an intensive international field component led by the faculty leaders. Course topics and destinations vary greatly, with students exploring everything from international relations in Japan, to evolutionary biology and philosophy in the Galapagos, to indigenous art and music in Australia. Courses are taught in all four undergraduate schools and students of every class year and major are encouraged to participate. The Penn Global Seminars program is one of Penn’s most affordable study abroad opportunities, featuring a low flat fee which covers all aspects of travel. Contributions support the cost of running the travel component and will further Penn Abroad’s mission of broadening access to abroad opportunities for all Penn students, particularly first-generation, low-income students, student-athletes, and other students typically underrepresented in education abroad. Support Penn Global Seminars Support Global Faculty Research Activities Penn India Research and Engagement Fund The launch of the Penn India Research and Engagement Fund (IREF) in 2018 follows a long history of institutional engagement in India. Penn was the first American university to teach Sanskrit in the late 1900s and established the first South Asian Studies department in the 1940s. More recent achievements include the founding the Center for the Advances Study of India in 1992 and the University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India in 1998. With the India Research and Engagement Fund, Penn supports dynamic initiatives that generate transformative and impactful ideas on major debates in India, enhance relevant educational and research initiatives, and strengthen institutional and faculty-to-faculty relationships with Indian partners. Contributions will be used to support IREF projects, covering activities that may include, but are not limited to innovative research and educational collaborations, training and capacity building programs, events and convenings, and curricular and course development initiatives. Your support will allow Penn to expand the size and longevity of the India Research and Engagement Fund, furthering our institutional commitment to the study of India. Support IREF Penn China Research and Engagement Fund With interactions dating back to 1823, engagement between Penn and China has since flourished, leading to new exchanges, collaborations, and projects that would expand and strengthen Penn’s institutional commitment to the country and region. Today, engagement between Penn and China remains critical to the University’s mission. Following the establishment of the Center for East Asian Studies (1995), Center for the Study of Contemporary China (2012), and Penn Wharton China Center (2015), the launch of the Penn China Research and Engagement Fund (CREF), also in 2015, represented a meaningful next step to advance the scope of Penn’s engagement in China. The China Research and Engagement Fund supports faculty-led activities that advance the interdisciplinary study, teaching, and engagement of China. Since its inception, the University has made numerous awards across disciplines, including healthcare and health, business and economics, urbanization and development, and media and culture, among other areas. Support will be directed toward CREF projects, covering activities that may include, but are not limited to innovative research and educational collaborations, training and capacity building programs, events and convenings, and curricular and course development initiatives. Above all, your commitment will further position Penn as the leading U.S. university exploring the future of China across key disciplines and questions. Support CREF Penn Global Engagement Fund The Global Engagement Fund (GEF) is a competitive grant program that seeds creative, faculty-driven projects that will catalyze entrepreneurial research or initiatives in a global context. Since its inception in 2011, the Global Engagement Fund has supported over a hundred projects, drawn from many disciplines across Penn’s 12 Schools. Projects have included a study of the thermal performance of the Mongolian ger dwellings, development of a virtual reality film on Ethiopia’s Jewish community and their quest to emigrate to Israel, an initiative to engage local communities in the Galapagos on climate change and science education, and a project in India examining sleep quality in disadvantaged communities and labor performance. Support will be used to fund project activities that may include, but are not limited to field work, travel and associated costs, research and educational initiatives, curricular and course development initiatives, and convenings. Furthermore, your support will boost the University’s capacity to elevate its faculty and their research, advancing Penn as a leader of global research and intellectual innovation. Support GEF 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy