Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Barnard Alumnae Gathering Event Events Past Event Beijing Barnard Alumnae Gathering Event Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 7, 2018 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Event Brief On July 7, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to an alumnae gathering event for Barnard College, Columbia University. Four invited alumnae speakers will be sharing their days at Barnard and their experiences in various industries after graduation. We cordially invite all Barnard alumnae and current students to come join us. Since its founding in 1889, Barnard has been a distinguished leader in higher education, offering a rigorous liberal arts foundation to young women whose curiosity, drive and exuberance set them apart. On its leafy four acre campus on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, its world class faculty of teacher-scholars educates more than 2,500 inspired and intrepid undergraduate women—women who, as a matter of course, have gone on to achieve great things. Throughout history, Barnard graduates have made their mark as leaders in the arts, business, politics, and science, and as activists for causes too numerous to name. Speakers Amanda Ju '15 Amanda Ju was an art history major and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the national honor society. Her senior thesis was rewarded for the Art History Departmental Award. During her time at Barnard, she was constantly participating in Hoot Magazine, a school wide fashion magazine. Amanda formerly worked for the Metropolitan Museum and Beijing Contemporary Art Foundation. She is currently doing her PhD on Visual and Cultural Studies at University of Rochester. Julia Qian '15 Julia Qian is a senior consultant at Tencent in Beijing, and previously worked for McKinsey & Company in Chicago. She is also the founder and president of Redefine International Inc, a NYC-based nonprofit organization that aims to empower Chinese women. Back at Barnard, Julia was a history major concentrating in war and revolution, an Athena Scholar, a student interviewer and the President of Student Government Association (SGA). She remained connected to her alma mater by serving as co-lead for the alumnae club of Chicago and as an Athena Leadership Council member. Davya Zeng '19 Davya Zeng is a current Economics and Mathematics and Film Studies double major at Barnard College. She is the president of Columbia University Badminton Club and led the club to win the gold and silver medals at Northeastern Collegiate Championship. Davya also serves as the president of Redefine Annual Women Leadership Conference and a co-lead of Redefine Academy. She has also hosted two summer camps, and last summer, she was the casting director of a popular Chinese entertainment show Qi Pa Shuo. Jessica Zhang '18 Jessica Zhang majored in Statistics and minored in Economics and Psychology. She is currently an investment analyst at Cowell Health. Jessica transferred from Mount Holyoke College to Barnard College at the beginning of her junior year. As one of the presidents of Redefine Annual Women Leadership Conference, she successfully hosted the Conferences for three years. During her tenure, the Redefine Conference was registered as an official student group at Barnard. Jessica said, “I love Barnard and NYC. Although I was only at Barnard for two years, it was the most fruitful period of time in my life. I can’t wait to meet you all and share my experience.” Agenda 09:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. Registration 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Alumnae Sharing 11:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Informal Discussion 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. Lunch Special Notice The event is open only to Barnard alumnae and current students. Please enter your UNI, year of graduation, major for registration. If you have any questions, please leave us a message below or email to [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close