Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Alumni Event: Panel Discussion on Wood Architecture and Sustainability Events Past Event Alumni Event: Panel Discussion on Wood Architecture and Sustainability Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo February 25, 2022 7:00 PM - 9:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing *By clicking "Register Here", you are deemed to consent to all conditions and terms of the Consent Note for Personal Information Processing, including the cross-border transfer of your personal information as described in Article II.3 of the consent note. If you do not agree to all the conditions and terms hereof, please do not click. Time: February 25, 7:00PM - 9:30PM (Beijing) Location: Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Sustainable development is said to be one of the greatest challenges to the present and future of the built environment. Wood has long been considered a sustainable resource, with many positive characteristics, including low carbon impact, renewable, low embodied energy, and sustainability. Please join us for an interactive social forum with leading architects and designers to share their projects and experiences, showcasing the use of wood in architecture with innovative design ideas to create sustainable architecture. All Columbia GSAPP alumni and students and architecture/engineering/construction professionals are welcome to join. The event is organized by AIA Shanghai and co-sponsored by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Columbia Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. A special thanks to Columbia GSAPP alumnus Anderson Hsieh, President-Elect of AIA Shanghai. Speakers Wei YAN is a Professor at the School of Architecture, Tianjin University. She is currently serving as the Dean’s Assistant and Director for International Cooperation of the school. Her main research field is building life cycle assessment and design, and the sustainable evolution of the built environment. She is currently teaching the design studio on ‘Building in Life Cycle’, which concerns the sustainability of the built environment, especially the climate-responsive and resource conservation design strategies. Prof. Yang holds a professional Bachelor's and Master's Degrees in Architecture and a Doctor of Engineering from Tianjin University. She studied at Karlsruhe University (KIT) from 2003-2005 as an exchange Ph.D. student, where she started her research topic on building LCA and building stocks. She revisited Karlsruhe Institute of Technology in 2009 and 2018 and visited ETH Zurich in 2010 as a guest researcher. Prof. Yang led the TEAM Tianjin U+ to build the R-CELLS zero-carbon solar house in Zhangbei County in north China in Sept. 2021, which competed in the 3rd China Solar Decathlon in June 2022. Zhantang MIAO is an Associate Professor, Ph.D. Supervisor, and Director of the Construction Institute at Tianjin University School of Architecture. He is a National Registered Urban Planner and also the Vice-Chairman of the Construction Technology Sub-Committee of the Chinese Architectural Society. Prof. Miao graduated from Tianjin University with a bachelor's degree in urban planning, a master's degree in architectural Technology, a Ph.D. in Urban and Rural Planning, and received a post-doctoral degree from Seoul National University. He initiated and founded the Construction Research Institute in Tianjin University School of Architecture. Prof. Miao participated in the 2021 Solar Decathlon China as an instructor and directed the timber work and details design of R-cells. Yufeng Zheng is a master's candidate of Tianjin University and the Project Manager of Team TianjinU+. Zheng came to Tianjin University School of Architecture in 2019 to pursue his master's degree in architecture. His research is modern timber structure architecture. In 2020-2021, Zheng participated in the 2021 Solar Decathlon China as a key member and worked with his team to complete the design and management of R-CELLS, which was built in September 2021 in Zhangjiakou. Reminders Event language: Chinese If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close