Skip to main content Apply Give Subscribe About Our Institute Where We Work Our Impact Diversity, Equity and Inclusion COVID-19 Response People Leadership Faculty & Staff Alumni Education Programs Why Global Health at Duke? Experiential Learning & Field Research Global Health Commencement Global Health Research Showcase Enhancing Your Degree Courses Careers Research Projects Centers and Labs Grants and Funding Resources for Researchers News Events Search Search Homepage Congratulations, Class of 2022 DGHI celebrates 80 global health graduates on Friday, May 6. Read More A Pandemic in Slow Motion Cardiologists call for a new approach to dealing with a global crisis in heart health. Read More Snakebites and Terabytes Using data to get antivenom where it’s needed most in the Brazilian Amazon. Read More A Renewed Call for Vaccine Equity DGHI experts say the slow pace of COVID-19 vaccination globally threatens to extend the pandemic. Read More Our Mission We work to achieve health equity for vulnerable groups and individuals around the world through research, education and partnership. Around DGHI Chris Beyrer, MD, MPH, Named DGHI Director Education News Back to the Field Research News The Problem With Malaria Drugs: Too Much of a Good Thing Get news and events emails Sign Up Where We Work DGHI faculty, staff and students collaborate with organizations and communities across the globe to train students, conduct research and pursue global health solutions. This map shows where faculty and students worked in the past year. Faculty Projects Student Projects Priority Partnership Countries World map illustration with the following countries highlighted: Australia, Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, China, Ecuador, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Kenya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Tanzania, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Vietnam. World map illustration with the following countries highlighted: Brazil, Cambodia, China, Gambia, Honduras, India, Kenya, Malaysia, Peru, Singapore, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, United States, Vietnam. World map illustration with the following countries highlighted: China, India, Kenya, Peru, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Uganda, United States. 270 Research Projects 270 Research Projects DGHI faculty received 270 externally funded research grants with total annual funding of $75 million in 2020-21. View projects 33 Countries 33 Countries DGHI faculty, staff and students are engaged in projects and partnerships in 33 countries across the globe. Explore partnership locations 360 Students 360 Students DGHI hosts education programs for undergraduate, master's degree, medical and doctoral students from a broad range of disciplines. See education programs Voices of DGHI "'Being with' means to set aside one’s strategies for change and instead simply feel the pain and hardship of another’s situation." - Duke global health students Emily Gitlin and Ronit Sethi Student Stories Two Perspectives on the Challenge of “Being With” While Being Remote Students strive to bridge cultural divides with orphaned Indian children as they seek to learn about their lives in residential care. Students strive to bridge cultural divides with orphaned Indian children as they seek... Read More Education & Training DGHI prepares learners at every level to understand and address health disparities affecting communities in the United States and countries around the world. Featured Program Master of Science in Global Health Learn More Interdisciplinary Education Why Study Global Health at Duke? Learn More Hands-On Experience The Advantage of Fieldwork Learn More Contact Visit us Jobs Sign up for news DGHI Communications Toolkit DGHI IT Help User Login DUKE GLOBAL HEALTH INSTITUTE (919) 681-7760 globalhealth.duke.edu 310 Trent Drive, Durham, NC 27710 Box 90519, Durham, NC 27708