Skip to main content announcement COVID-19 continues to impact international travel. Effective May 10, 2022, please reference these recommendations for all Penn-Affiliated travel: Penn Travel Guidance Update (Summer 2022) Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Global Support Services Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Global Support Services Program Development Compliance & Research People Operations Abroad Tools & Resources International Travel Guidance About Drawer Menu Global Support Services Program Development Explore Back to main menu International Program Management & Development Program Administration International Agreements Explore Back to main menu International Agreements Development Assistance Agreement Submission to GSS Search Current Agreements People Operations Abroad Travel Logistics Compliance & Research Explore Back to main menu Research Regulations Export Control Destination Specific Compliance Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Explore Back to main menu 3rd Parties & Risk Mitigation Penalties Resources Scenarios People Operations Abroad Explore Back to main menu Faculty Support for Global Leave Explore Back to main menu Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program Sabbatical Information Practical Considerations Engaging Independent Contractors Collaborating with an Established Organization Contracting with a PEO Penn Personnel Working Abroad Tools & Resources International Travel Guidance About Explore Back to main menu Meet the GSS Team Working Groups Explore Back to main menu Global Operations & Support Council Global Administrators Working Group Explore Back to main menu Join GAWG GAWG Previous Meetings Search Group Created with Sketch. Providing Support to Penn in the World OUR MISSION: GSS collaborates with the Penn Community to navigate the complexities of international initiatives. We share knowledge, streamline processes, and provide solutions that adapt to changing global landscapes. How Can We Help? COVID-19 Travel Guidance Information and announcements regarding international travel and operations in response to COVID-19. People Operations Abroad Questions about paying people working overseas? Contact Erica Sebastian at esebast@upenn.edu. International Agreements Beginning a new partnership? Renewing an old one? Let us help. Program Development Questions on finance or banking abroad? Questions on purchasing goods and services? Compliance & Research Conducting research abroad? Understand research regulations, OFAC sanctions and privacy laws. Travel Essentials Planning a trip abroad? Need support with pre-departure organizing? Announcements As of Jan. 4, 2022 There has been no change to the existing Penn policy regarding international travel and we remain in a restricted travel status. Travel Guidelines and Procedures As of May 18, 2021: Penn ended the COVID-19 suspension on all domestic and international Penn-affiliated travel and moved to restricted status. Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program 2023-24 The Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program 2023-24 competition is now open. For more information, please visit cies.org or contact Erica Sebastian at esebast@upenn.edu. Toolkits, Checklists & Forms Global Supplier Form Hiring Abroad Toolkit International Activities Questionnaires Site Assessment Checklist Global Supplier Form Help GSS to be the central information repository on vendors and service providers for international activities. Tell us a global supplier or vendor you have used abroad. Submit the Global Supplier Form Hiring Abroad Toolkit Need staff in the field? This toolkit can help! Download the Toolkit International Activities Questionnaires Are you starting a new international project? Make sure you are making all the right considerations. Complete a questionnaire Site Assessment Checklist Ask all the right questions when reviewing your program abroad. Download the Checklist 01 / 04 3451 Walnut Street 414 Franklin Building Philadelphia, PA 19104 globalsupport@pobox.upenn.edu Accessibility Statement for Global Support Services Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy