Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Panel Discussion: Opportunities for Women Leadership in the Digital Era Events Past Event Panel Discussion: Opportunities for Women Leadership in the Digital Era Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 9, 2017 4:30 PM - 6:00 PM Beijing Hong Kong Jockey Clubhouse Show Map On November 9, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing cordially invites you to the panel discussion Opportunities for Women Leadership in the Digital Era at the Beijing Hong Kong Jockey Club Clubhouse, Beijing. The panel invites women leaders from the industries of media, business,design and furniture, and health to discuss unique opportunities and challenges faced by women entrepreneurs and leaders in today's digital world, and the importance of mentors and building networks. During the discussion, our panelists will share their experiences along with advice for young women entrepreneurs and leaders. Lee C. Bollinger, President of Columbia University, will deliver opening remarks. Safwan M. Masri, Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University, will deliver closing remarks. A special thank you to the ZhenFund and Her Village Academy for their support. Special Guests Lee C. Bollinger President of Columbia University in the City of New York Safwan M. Masri Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development Columbia University in the City of New York Lan Yang SIPA '96 Chairperson, Sun Media Group and Her Village Academy Anna Fang-Hamm CC '04 Partner and CEO of ZhenFund Xiaohong Han Founder and President of Ciming Health Checkup Management Group Co., Ltd. President of Ciji Network Technology Co., Ltd. Zhen Liu Senior Vice President of Bytedance (Toutiao) Wei Shu Founder and CEO of ZAOZUO.com Agenda 4: 30 p.m. - 4: 35 p.m. Opening Remarks by Lee C. Bollinger, President of Columbia University 4: 35 p.m. - 5: 35 p.m. Panel Discussion with Lan Yang, Anna Fang-Hamm, Xiaohong Han, Zhen Liu, and Wei Shu 5: 35 p.m. - 5: 55 p.m. Q&A 5: 55 p.m. - 6: 00 p.m. Closing Remarks by Safwan M. Masri, Executive Vice President for Global Centers and Global Development at Columbia University *Please Note* 1. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified before confirmation. 2. We will send a confirmation e-mail with confirmation code from [email protected] once registered successfully by November 7th, 2017. 3. Please present the confirmation code at the entrance. 4. Should you have any questions or concerns regarding the registration, please send an e-mail inquiry to [email protected] 5. Every one who would like to attend the event must register in advance. 6. Send us your questions to the panelists for the Q&A session through Columbia Global Centers | Beijing official WeChat Account, along with your name, last four digits of your cellphone number when register. Your priority of confirmation for registration will increase once your question is selected. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close