Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Our Team Zeynep Celik Zeynep Celik Zeynep Celik Adjunct Professor of History, Department of History My Contact Info 413 Fayerweather Hall, Mail Code: 2527, United States +1 212 854 4646 [email protected] Zeynep Celik Expand all Collapse all Education Ph.D. – University of California, Berkeley M.Arch. – Rice University B.Arch. – Istanbul Technical University Awards Giorgio Levi Della Vida Award, 2019 Tamayouz Excellence Award, 2019 University of Ghent, Sarton Medal, 2015 Vehbi Koç Award, 2014 Bosporus University, Honorary Doctorate, 2013 National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship, 2012 American Council of Learned Societies Fellowship, 1993, 2004, and 2011 John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship, 2004 Books About Antiquities: Politics of Archaeology in the Ottoman Empire, Austin, TX: University of Texas Press, 2016. Camera Ottomana: Photography and Ottoman Modernity, 1840-1914, Istanbul: Koç University Press, 2015 (co-editor with Edhem Eldem). Scramble for the Past: A Story of Archaeology in the Ottoman Empire, 1753-1914, Istanbul: SALT Publications, 2011 (co-editor with Zainab Bahrani and Edhem Eldem). Walls of Algiers: Narratives of the City through Text and Image (co-edited with Julia Clancy-Smith and Frances Terpak), Seattle and London: University of Washington Press/Los Angeles: Getty Publications, 2009. Empire, Architecture, and the City: French-Ottoman Encounters, 1830-1914, Seattle and London: University of Washington Press, 2008. [Society of Architectural Historians Spiro Kostof Book Award, 2010]. Urban Forms and Colonial Confrontations: Algiers under French Rule, Berkeley: University of California Press, 1997. Streets: Critical Perspectives on Public Space, Berkeley: University of California Press, 1993 (co-editor with Diane Favro and Richard Ingersoll). Displaying the Orient: Architecture of Islam at Nineteenth Century World’s Fairs, Berkeley: University of California Press, 1992. The Remaking of Istanbul: Portrait of an Ottoman City in the Nineteenth Century, Seattle and London: University of Washington Press, 1986; paperback edition by University of California Press, 1993. [Institute of Turkish Studies Book Award, 1987] Scholarly Articles “D’Alger à Damas: l’intrusion de la place publique dans la ville ottomane” in Sophie Basch, Pierre Chuvin, Michel Espagne, Nora Seni, and J. Leclant, eds., L’orientalisme, les orientalistes et l’empire ottoman, Paris: Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, 2011. “Approches critiques de la ville africaine: notes sur les glissements thématiques et les défies méthodologiques” in Jean-Luc Vellut, ed., Villes d’Afrique: Parcours d’histoire culturelle, Paris: L’Harmattan, 2007. “Islamic Art and Architecture in French Colonial Discourse” in Islamic Art on the Margins, Irene Bierman, ed., Ithaca, NY: Ithaca Press, 2005. “Framing the Colony: Houses of Algiers Photographed,” Art History, Special Issue 27/3: (May 2004). “Learning From the Bidonville: CIAM Looks at Algiers,” Harvard Design Magazine, Spring 2003. “Speaking Back to Orientalist Discourse at the World’s Columbian Exposition” in Holly Edwards, ed., Noble Dreams, Wicked Pleasures: Orientalism in American Culture, 1870-1930, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2000. “Colonial / Postcolonial Intersections: Lieux de mémoire in Algiers,” Third Text 49 (January 2000). “New Approaches to the ‘Non-Western’ City,” Journal of the Society of Architectural “Gendered Spaces in Colonial Algiers” in D. Agrest, L. Weisman, and P. Conway, eds., The Sex of Architecture, New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1996. “Colonialism, Orientalism, and the Canon” (Critical Perspectives: Rethinking the Canon), Art Bulletin, v. LXXVIII, no. 2 (June 1996). “Le Corbusier, Orientalism, Colonialism,” Assemblage 17 (Spring 1992). “Ethnography and Exhibitionism at the Expositions Universelles,” Assemblage 13 (Winter 1991--with Leila Kinney. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close