Toggle navigation Sign up Log in News Gallery Events & Programs About Leadership Mission Join CAA of Chile for events, news from campus, and more Subscribe Today! Feature Visit to the first electric bus depot in Latin America Alumni visited the first electric bus depot in Latin America, located in Peñalolén. They learned about how the depot works, and how lithium batteries and charging systems function. The depot opened in 2019, and is part of a national policy to develop electric-powered transportation alternatives in Chile. The Italian utility... Read more Latest News More news April 22, 2022 Visit to the first electric bus... Alumni visited the first electric bus depot in Latin America, located in Peñalolén. They learned about how the depot works, and how lithium batteries and charging systems function. The depot... Read more December 02, 2021 End-of-year celebration at Catad’Or Wine Barra... Columbia alumni gathered at Catad’Or Wine Barra in Hotel Cumbres Lastarria in Santiago on December 2. In addition to coming together after a challenging year, the event celebrated the launch... Read more July 02, 2021 Happy Hour Drinks in Viña del... Valentina Lagos '15SIPA, Graciela Ibáñez '08JRN and Carolina Arcil '19LAW enjoy some drinks at the early winter happy hour, coastal edition, of the Columbia Alumni Association of Chile. Viña del... Read more About | Columbia Alumni Association of Chile Columbia Alumni Association of Chile is a community of over 500 people. The purpose of CAA of Chile is to have fun, share experiences, continue the relationship with Columbia University, connect alumni through the planning of events, guide students to the University, and... Read more Privacy Policy CAA Alumni Events Worldwide Log in Sign up for email updates: Optional email code SITE PROVIDED BY Are you an alumni group leader? Please contact your liaison in the Office of Alumni Relations or email [email protected] to learn how to create an alumni group website. Content on this page is the responsibility of the Columbia alumni organization represented here, and does not reflect the official views of Columbia University. If you have any concerns about this page, please e-mail [email protected]