Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Breadcrumb Home Resources Funding Opportunities for Faculty and Students Funding Opportunities for Faculty and Students Global Cornell is committed to supporting faculty through grants that foster global learning and collaboration, leading to new international partnerships for research and teaching. Funding opportunities also help faculty implement teaching innovations to internationalize the student experience. For students, funding can support engagement with cultures worldwide, opportunities to master foreign languages, and travel for research projects. Please note that some opportunities are not available at this time due to COVID-19 restrictions. Opportunities for Faculty International Cornell Curriculum Grants Global Cornell is offering International Cornell Curriculum grants of between $20,000 and $30,000 to create, develop, or improve curricula that provide students with international experiences, preferably with linkages to Cornell’s Global Hubs strategic partners or locations. ICC grants will support the planning, development, or advancement of new or existing for-credit, tuition-bearing courses. Learn more about ICC grants Faculty Funding from the Einaudi Center The Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies is a place for faculty engaged in global research to connect and find partnerships on campus, in our region, or around the world. The center supports faculty-led research, conferences, and collaborations. Tenured and tenure-track faculty members from any program, center, college, or school are eligible to apply. Learn more about Einaudi Center faculty funding opportunities Migrations Initiative Grants A new cycle of grants from the Migrations initiative seeks to support work in migrations-related research, pedagogy, and engagement with a specific focus on racism and dispossession. Each opportunity is available to faculty across college, school, and discipline. Learn more about Migrations grants Cornell China Center Research Grants The Cornell China Center annually invites proposals from Cornell faculty for multiple types of research grants ranging in funding from $10,000 to $100,000. China Innovation Grants are for collaboration with faculty at any university in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macao, or Taiwan, with priority given to themes of health, sustainability, food safety, and cities and the built environment. The Cornell China Center-East Asia Program Research Fund awards grants for research on the Mainland of China, Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan, with priority given to research in social sciences and humanities. Joint seed funds are available to work with Zhejiang University (ZJU-Cornell) or Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU-Cornell) for collaborative projects. Learn more about China Research Grants and deadlines Opportunities for Students Student Funding from the Einaudi Center The Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies has helped students cross borders of language, culture, nationality, and academic discipline for more than half a century. The center offers many funding opportunities for undergraduates and graduates with deadlines throughout the academic year. Einaudi funding can help you engage with international cultures, understand people and places around the world, study foreign languages, travel for international research projects, or host a campus event with your student organization. Learn more about Einaudi Center student funding opportunities Student Travel Grants The Office of Global Learning provides sponsorship to undergraduate and graduate students to support international travel associated with the student's course of study, making global experiences financially accessible to all students across the university. Grants cover airfare for educated-related travel during summer, spring, and fall breaks. The travel grant application is available through the Off-Campus Opportunity Fund. Learn more about student travel grants International Research Internship Program The International Research Internship Program offers qualified international students—undergraduate or graduate—not enrolled at Cornell the opportunity to conduct research on campus for a limited time under the direction of a Cornell faculty member. The program requires prior approval from the faculty member in question, the department chair, and the college dean. Students may not directly apply for this program. Learn more about international research grants Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance