Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Global Menu Search Log In Academics Academic Programs Student Profile Research/Study Abroad Honors Programs Request Information Lincoln & Safety Facts Safety Life in Lincoln Housing & Learning Communities Transportation Campus Recreation Request Information Apply & Deposit Apply Now Admission Requirements English Proficiency Admission Checklist Check Your Admission Status Cost & Scholarships Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Requirements Request Information Learn English English Program Requirements Request Information Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Global Global Study at Top-Ranked Nebraska Play Video Apply Complete the online application to attend Nebraska. Apply Now Academics Nebraska offers more than 150 academic programs. Explore Academics Cost & Aid Attend top-ranked Nebraska at an affordable cost. See Cost & Scholarships Connect 1-to-1 with Us on WeChat Connect with Nebraska on WeChat! Meet with our international recruitment team to learn about life on campus, stay updated on campus news and ask questions. Follow us at UofNebraska-Lincoln. Download & Chat Now Lincoln is Fun & Safe Lincoln is one of the safest and fastest-growing Midwest cities—combining the perks of a big city with the comfort of a small town. Explore Lincoln As a top-ranked U.S. university, Nebraska is a perfect place for international students to continue their education. Explore more here, and see how Nebraska might be right for you. If you have any questions, please contact us, and we'll be happy to help. Majors Scholarships English Proficiency Requirements Admission Requirements Research Opportunities Safety Information Housing Learn English Study English at Nebraska Immerse yourself in U.S. culture while you study English at Nebraska. Whether you're improving your English skills to complete a degree or developing cultural skills for your career, the University has the right English program for you. Study English Your Contact Information Your First Name * Your Last Name * Your Email * You are a: * ... High School Freshman High School Sophomore High School Junior High School Senior Military/Veteran College Transfer Parent Next Right-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark Address Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 Office Hours: 8:00AM - 5:00PM M-F Phone 402-472-2023 Fax 402-472-0670 Email admissions@unl.edu Related Links Undergraduate Admissions New Student Enrollment University Housing Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.