Skip to main content English Fran莽ais Espa帽ol Nav toggle Who we are What we do Our impact Get involved Global Search Who we are What we do Our impact Get involved English Locations Back Select Language Fran莽ais Espa帽ol Losing the ground beneath our feet What needs to be done during the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration Read more Featured Blog A digital lifeline for Ukrainians on the move How a mobile app is providing a lifeline through the chaos of war Discover Blog Preventing conflict and building peace is now more important than ever The global outlook appears grim. UN Assistant Secretaries-General Elizabeth Spehar and Ulrika Modeer say there is reason for hope. Discover News International Migration Review Forum With numbers set to rise globally, investing in safe migration pathways is key, says UNDP Discover Stories A lightbulb moment As Jamaica prepares to install solar in three public hospitals, lightbulb retrofits are already saving energy, money and barrels of oil. Discover News 'The outlook for Syrians is deteriorating' Message from the UN humanitarian, refugee and development chiefs on the situation in Syria and the region Discover News 'Dont Choose Extinction' Global cinema ad aims to inspire movie theater audiences to join the fight against climate change. Discover Stories #FutureSmartUNDP Development is changing. So are we. Discover UNDP response War in Ukraine UNDP teams have been on the ground throughout the crisis, helping to save lives and support relief efforts, but the needs are rapidly increasing. Discover UNDP Response COVID-19 pandemic An integrated global response is an investment in our future. Discover More Our mission UNDP works in 170 countries and territories to eradicate poverty while protecting the planet. We help countries develop strong policies, skills, partnerships and institutions so they can sustain their progress. Our expertise People We are determined to end poverty and hunger, in all their forms and dimensions, and to ensure that all human beings can fulfil their potential in dignity and equality and in a healthy environment. Read more Planet We are determined to protect the planet from degradation, through sustainable consumption and production, sustainably managing its natural resources and taking urgent action on climate change, so that it can support the needs of the present and future generations. Read more Prosperity We are determined to ensure that all human beings can enjoy prosperous and fulfilling lives and that economic, social and technological progress occurs in harmony with nature. Read more Peace We are determined to foster peaceful, just and inclusive societies which are free from fear and violence. There can be no sustainable development without peace and no peace without sustainable development. Read more Partnership We are determined to mobilize the means required to implement this Agenda through a revitalized Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, based on a spirit of strengthened global solidarity, focused in particular on the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable and with the participation of all countries, all stakeholders and all people. Read more Trusted partnerships Partnership is at the heart of everything UNDP does. We offer a nearly universal presence across the world. We are determined to mobilize the means to implement the 2030 Agenda through a revitalized Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, with a focus on the poorest and most vulnerable. JOIN US Global impact Our work in sustainable development, governance and resilience building. 35 Million people had better services to tackle poverty 62 Million people gained access to financial services 290 Million tonnes of carbon emissions cut 1+ Billion invested to strengthen resilience to crises Publications Report UNDP Strategic Plan 2022-2025 Focused on the future of development, UNDPs bold Strategic Plan is a framework to help countries get back on track to achieve the SDGs. READ MORE Report UNDP Annual Report 2020 Driving the future of development READ MORE Report Human Development Report 2020 The Next Frontier: Human Development and the Anthropocene READ MORE Recent news press releases UNDP regional director on a three-day official visit to Moldova Ms. Mirjana poljari Egger, UNDP Assistant Administrator and Director of the UNDP Regional Bureau for Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), wi... Read more press releases Ukraine works to ensure post-war energy sector recovery is clean, green and affordable Ukraines Ministry of Energy signs new agreement with UNDP Read more press releases Modern service conditions were created for the beneficiaries of the Soroca office of the National Employment Agency The new office of the National Employment Agency in Soroca is now adapted to the needs of its employees and beneficiaries. Thus, the inhabitants of the Soroca dis... Read more press releases New online service to help displaced Ukrainians find shelter and employment abroad UNDP and Government of Ukraine launch new virtual centre with information on legalizing ones stay abroad and registering a business in European countries Read more press releases Election commission committed to holding inclusive elections Read more press releases More than 2500 students from Moldova will develop their digital skills, with the support of UNDP and the Government of Romania More than 2500 students from four schools in Moldova will be able to learn the professions of the future in digital laboratories, equipped with high-performance e... Read more blogs A digital lifeline for Ukrainians on the move How a mobile app to support displaced families in Ukraine is providing a lifeline through the chaos of war Read more stories Refugees from Ukraine start from scratch on the Moldovan job market When the war started, I panicked like everyone else. I wanted to stay in Odessa, but my husband insisted that I leave for Moldova. So I came to Balti with our 11... Read more @UNDP Tweets UN Development @UNDP Love is love わАわА This #PrideMonth and every day, join us to #StandUp4HumanRights and work for a more inclusive  for all. #Pride #Pride2022 https://t.co/a8pjM1SINP 3:00:00 AM 路 1/6/2022 VIEW ON TWITTER UN Development @UNDP Against the backdrop of the war in #Ukraine, the food and energy crisis, and #ClimateChange, development cooperation and #Multilateralism have never been more important. Our way forward must be built on shared goals and a common vision for people and planet. #PartnersAtCore https://t.co/KAauY16dJX 12:38:45 AM 路 1/6/2022 VIEW ON TWITTER UNDP Climate @UNDPClimate How can we take action for a healthy planet?  Ahead of #Stockholm50, we asked thousands of people around the globe for their insights. Here is what they said 讹 https://t.co/ZkjbFICmoh 3:00:06 PM 路 31/5/2022 VIEW ON TWITTER UN Development @UNDP We have #OnlyOneEarth. It's time we come together to protect it  Ahead of #Stockholm50, this video piece was projected on the @UN building tonight in New York as a call to action for youth inclusion and hope, and to accelerate progress on #ClimateAction and the #GlobalGoals. https://t.co/vBuxUowraa 11:16:31 PM 路 31/5/2022 VIEW ON TWITTER Filters Search UNDP only Hide Filters Search Quick Links Sustainable Development Goals Dont Choose Extinction News Stories Popular Search careers peace and justice undp climate change United Nations Development Programme Sign up for our newsletter Email Address Who we are About us Leadership Executive Board Our Partners Funding Transparency and Accountability What we do Sustainable Development Goals Human Development Report Development challenges and solutions Strategic initiatives Our expertise Our impact News Centre Results Publications Blogs Stories Photo library Get involved Careers Procurement UNDP Shop UNDP Giving Contact us Report Fraud, Abuse, Misconduct Submit social or environmental complaint Scam Alert Terms of Use Twitter Facebook YouTube Instagram Linkedin 漏 2022 United Nations Development Programme