Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Africa and Africanity Lecture Series: Future of Religion and Religiosity of the Future Events Past Event Africa and Africanity Lecture Series: Future of Religion and Religiosity of the Future Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Africanity November 13, 2020 5:00 PM Online Event Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi invites you to part three of our webinar series, this webinar will focus on 'Future of Religion and Religiosity of the Future' There is a dimension of human identity that cannot be expressed empirically. That is the essence of religiosity. Some call it spirituality; others call it sacredness. Through whatever label we prefer, we acknowledge that our senses are not adequate for expressing our innermost feelings and aspirations- our ultimate concerns. Professor John S. Mbiti, who passed on in October 2020, emphasized that Africans are “notoriously” religious. I would suggest that humans are” incurably” religious- not only Africans but all humans. Africa is the Theater in which the Drama of competing religions is played. Africans are both the Actors and the Audience in their own Drama, cheered by onlookers and bystanders who from time to time toss tokens of appreciation or disdain. There was a time when religiosity pervaded the cultures of Europe and North America. Those were the days when Constitutions took God for granted. A new deity entered the cultural stage. It was called Reason, with a sister called Technology. The whirlwinds of technology and progress without ado swept aside religiosity, and secularity became the norm. In the meantime, Africa wore the garbs of Europe and North America, spoke their languages, played their music while dancing their dances. But African religiosity remained intact, underneath the new religion. The Third Millennium has begun with Africans taking religion seriously, while elsewhere technology and progress took center stage. The future will tell, whether Africa will go secular, or return where it all began, in the core of our being. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bio Prof. Jesse N.K. Mugambi, Prof. Jesse N.K. Mugambi, Professor Jesse N.K. Mugambi – Alumnus of the University of Nairobi – is a member of academic staff since 1976 in the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies. On Leave of Absence he taught at other universities– including 1990-91 at Rice University, Houston, Texas, as Visiting Mellon Distinguished Professor in the Department of Religion. Among other responsibilities he has been Resource Person for the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) since 1974; World Student Christian Federation (WSCF) since 1974; and World Council of Churches (WCC) since 1975. His professional training is in Education and Communication; and his academic specializations include Philosophy, Theology and Religious Studies. He rose through the ranks to full professorship in 1993. In the University of Nairobi Administration he served as Chairman of Department (1986-90); Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts (1990); Academic Registrar (1990-94). On Leave of Absence he taught at Christian Theological Seminary, Indianapolis (1982-83; Guest Professor at the University of Copenhagen, Denmark (1997); Visiting Professor at Emmanuel College, Toronto, Canada (1999); Visiting Professor at the University of South Africa, Pretoria (2000). He also served as Director of Starehe Boys Centre, Nairobi (2007-2008), on Leave of Absence from the University of Nairobi. His works (as author/co-author and as editor/co-editor) include African Religious Heritage (1976); Philosophy of Religion (1988); African Christian Theology (1989); African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity (1992); Critiques of Christianity in African Literature (1992); Moral and Ethical Issues in African Christianity (1992); Christianity and African Culture (1989, 2002); A Comparative Study of Religions (1990, 2010); From Liberation to Reconstruction (1995); Religion and Social Construction of Reality (1996); Christian Theology and Environmental Responsibility (2001); Religions in Eastern Africa Under Globalization (2002); Christian Theology and Social Reconstruction (2003); Church State Relations (2004); Responsible Leadership: Global and Contextual Ethical Perspectives (2009); Contextual Theology Across Cultures (2009); Applied Ethics in Religion and Culture (2012). He is a Contributor of Articles in the Cambridge Dictionary of Christianity (2010); Handbook of Theological Education in Africa (2013); Routledge Companion to Christianity in Africa (2015); T&T Clark Handbook of Theology and Climate Change (2020). The CGC Webinars addressed by Professor Mugambi are pointers to the dialectical relationship between the global and the local; religious and secular; the individual and society; the long-term and the short-term. Expand all Collapse all Respondent Bio Prof. Josef Sorett Prof. Josef Sorett Prof. Josef Sorett is the Professor and Chair, Department of Religion; Professor, Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close