Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Students Menu Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us - Student Employment Your Global University Deciding whether and where to study in the United States can be an exciting, yet difficult decision for prospective students, perhaps now more than ever. There is no denying that the past months have presented new challenges and concerns if you’re considering coming to the United States to study. On behalf of NC State University and our campus partners and colleges, we would like to say – you are welcome here. NC State embraces a Think and Do culture which encompasses all of our students. We support international students, and we do everything we can to make NC State as much your university as it is our university. Our People Read more Our Units Read more engage Globally on campus Cultural Exchange Network CENet is a high-impact co-curricular global learning opportunity on campus at NC State. Find new friends through their International Buddy Program. Read more Developing Cultural Competence Certificate The DCC program aims to improve students’ cultural competence and cross-cultural awareness by facilitating virtual exchanges among participants. The virtual training program consists of self-paced individual learning modules. Read more English Conversation Club If you’re looking for a relaxed place to practice your English or you are a native English speaker that enjoys interacting with international students and scholars, then English Conversation Club is the place for you! Read more Global Ambassadors Global Ambassadors are the student-led force behind Global Engagement on campus. They are the future global leaders of tomorrow, who are interested in helping to plan and facilitate campus programs dedicated to cross-cultural sharing and campus internationalization. Read more Global Certificate Program The Global Perspectives Certificate (GPC) program is open to all degree-seeking undergraduate students at NC State, regardless of their academic area of study. Students who may find this certificate most engaging will be those who are interested in exploring their international interests both inside and outside of the classroom. Read more GEARS The GEARS Program is a unique academic, research and cultural exchange program that enables academically gifted domestic and international students to experience campus life and academic research at universities across North Carolina. Read more Global Diversity Advocates The Global Diversity Advocate program was created to amplify the narrative that students of diverse backgrounds do indeed study abroad and take part in global experiences. We are committed to highlighting and amplifying the study abroad experiences of NC State’s diverse student population. Read more Global Engagement Nights Organized and run by our undergraduate student Global Ambassadors, Global Engagement Nights are casual events to facilitate cultural sharing and global learning. Read more Global Health Minor The Global Health minor provides undergraduate students with an appreciation of interdisciplinary approaches to addressing global health needs. This minor is especially appropriate for (but not limited to) students majoring in the life sciences, social sciences, engineering, and international studies. Read more Global Village Residents from across the world come to reside in the Global Village. Students who live in the Global Village are interested in living and interacting with people from different backgrounds, experiences, countries, and viewpoints. Read more PackAbroad Ambassadors PackAbroad Ambassadors is a student group for study abroad returnees. This is a great opportunity to meet other students who have studied abroad while encouraging even more students to study abroad too! Read more Resources for International Students NC State University is home to over 6,000 International Students from 129 different countries. Read more Small Pack Leaders Small Pack Leaders directly support new international students and play an integral role in answering basic questions about the university and Raleigh before their arrival to campus. Small Pack Leaders also assist their new international students during International Orientation. Read more 630+ Student Organizations There’s a global community waiting for you on our campus Read more UN SDGs NC State will launch a campus programming initiative focused around the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This initiative, scheduled to last through the 2021-22 and 2022-23 academic years, will feature a wide array of programs each semester focused around a cluster of SDGs. Read more World Cultural Literacy Minor Experience the world through the living arts, while gaining an understanding crucial to working well with others in cultures across the globe. The World Cultural Literacy Minor offers an opportunity for breadth and balance, especially for STEM students, in Literature, History of Art, History, Music, Philosophy, and Religious Studies. Read more Engage globally abroad Alternative Service Break The Alternative Service Break (ASB) program is a unique learning experience in which students engage in direct service to a community while being immersed in the culture. Teams are led by student team-leaders and accompanied by faculty or staff advisors. Read more Find Study Abroad Programs by Area of Study Students can choose from over 60 programs led by NC State faculty and staff. Students benefit from additional on-site support before and during the program. Read more NC State Prague The NC State European Center in Prague supports the educational and outreach objectives of NC State University. It is the university’s only permanent year-round international facility that welcomes both students and faculty and aims to serve as a gateway to Europe for developing international networks and experiences. Read more Study Abroad The number of NC State students studying abroad in 2018-19 increased 6.25% from 2017-18, and nearly 24% from 2016-17. Study Abroad has grown considerably in the past 10 years and now approximately 22% of NC State undergraduate students study abroad. Read more Virtual Experiences The Study Abroad Office offers virtual global internships as well as virtual single-course exchanges to help develop professional work skills and cultural competency. Read more STAY GLOBALLY ENGAGED After Graduation Fulbright Student Program The Fulbright U.S. Student Program provides grants for individually designed study/research projects or for English Teaching Assistant Programs. During their grants, Fulbrighters will meet, work, live with and learn from the people of the host country, sharing daily experiences. Read more Peace Corps Peace Corps Volunteers work at the grassroots level toward sustainable change that lives on long after their service—at the same time becoming global citizens and serving their country. Reach out to NC State’s Peace Corps Recruiter: Rashad Thacker (rthacker@peacecorps.gov). Read more Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.