Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing What We Do Beijing Center Initiatives for Students and Alumni - new Beijing Center Initiatives for Students and Alumni - new Initiatives for Students and Alumni in China Columbia Global Centers | Beijing works with our partner institutions, corporations, NGOs, and others at regional and local level to provide Columbia students and alumni with opportunities to develop knowledge, skills, and competencies necessary in today’s interconnected world. These partnerships and programs enable the University community of all backgrounds and expertise to develop their interests into meaningful engagement efforts that help them achieve significant growth in their professional and academic life. Business Incubation Program: Pioneer Open Mic Taking advantage of the rich capital resources, top-notch technology services, and advanced innovation parks of Zhongguancun, this new entrepreneurship series will provide communities of Columbia University and other Ivy League schools with access to life-changing opportunities to empower their talents and passion for innovation. Urban Reflection on COVID-19 Initiated by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Columbia University Urban China Network, a student organization of the Urban Planning program within the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, URBAN REFLECTION ON COVID-19 asks participants to discuss the phenomenon and heuristic solutions within the field of Chinese Urbanism, and to provide ideas of how to manage this crisis in a post-pandemic future. Expand all Collapse all 2021 Overseas Returned Scholars Unicorn Enterprise Training Camp Description The 2021 Overseas Returned Scholars Unicorn Enterprise Training Camp will help you gain necessary entrepreneurial mindset and skills to turn your great idea into a profitable business. Entrepreneurs will learn the latest entrepreneurial policy, channels, and techniques in China, helping you stay abreast of the industry trends and valuable information that are important in making business decisions. This immersive program features master classes with successful entrepreneurs and Chinese leading economists, salon series with top-tier investment institutions, a set of practical business courses, company and startup tours, customized fitness trainings and more. In this program, you will have exclusive opportunities to expand your network with potential mentors, clients, and partners who are able to help you succeed in business and in life. Jointly organized by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, Shanghai Overseas Returned Scholars Association, and Science and Technology Committee of Huangpu District in Shanghai. Who can apply? Columbia students and alumni with business development and entrepreneurial experiences are welcome to apply. How to apply? Send your introduction and enterprise profile (at least 500 words in text; at least 10 pages of PPT) to b[email protected]. Topics Module 1: Master sharing Chinese first-class economists will analyze international and domestic economic development from a macroeconomic perspective. Representative entrepreneurs will discuss their achievements and share their experiences. Module 2: Pujiang Salon The investment salon will invite the heads of well-known investment institutions, serving as instructors, to share knowledge about entrepreneurial financing. The education salon will invite senior experts to share their working experiences and answer questions. Module 3: Practice Entrepreneurship Students will attend specific sub-module courses such as law, finance, equity incentive, and local entrepreneurial support policies Module 4: Company Visit Students will visit mature entrepreneurial companies, such as WuXi AppTec, SenseTimes, and so on. Seminars will be organized after the visit for the students to discuss their feedbacks. Module 5: Potential Improvement Professional coaches and outstanding mentors of the camp will customize fitness training courses to help entrepreneurs activate and enhance their internal energy. Read for the Countryside 2021 Summer Program Description In response to the National Strategy for Poverty Alleviation in China, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing has partnered with Huaneng Guicheng Trust Co., Ltd. to launch the Read for the Countryside 2021 summer program, providing opportunities for teenagers in rural communities to access quality reading materials. This program is seeking members of the Columbia community to support voluntary teaching for at least one week in the villages of Guizhou province. Educators will need to develop a poverty alleviation project that cultivates self-consciousness of local villagers, inspires teenagers to reach their potential, and helps them explore a bigger world. Where Lianyin village, Fake village, and Guanfang village in Guizhou province Whom Local villagers, especially teenagers Who can apply? All Columbia students and alumni are eligible to apply. What you will acquire? Funding support for travel expenses and living allowance Internship opportunity at Huaneng Guicheng Share your experience and stories at Columbia Global Centers network How to apply? Please send your resume to [email protected] with the subject line: Name–School-Read for the Countryside. Ivy Wall™-Teng Zhan Project Description Columbia Global Centers | Beijing is thrilled to support the Ivy Wall™-Teng Zhan Project, an international visual art exhibition initiated by three Columbia alumni with the purpose of advocating the establishment of a truly global perspective of multi-angle aesthetics. To deepen the integration of social resources and art works of the Ivy League alumni, the project board will organize a variety of online and offline events to engage artists, wallers, and the whole Ivy League community through art salons, lectures, and seminars. Where Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and other cities in China Who can apply? Young artists who share the same values as this project. Ivy League alumni to serve as "wallers" who exhibit the artwork(s) of their selection for 30 days, and share their stories during the exhibition by making videos, writing articles, posting on social media, or other forms. For non-Ivy League graduates who have a strong will to participate, you must have a referee of an Ivy League school alumna/alumnus, and this referee must be a recruited waller for the project. Each waller can recommend up to three non-Ivy League participants in an operating circle/year. How to apply? The Ivy Wall-Teng Zhan project is seeking Ivy league wallers and 50 young artists. Please send us your relevant works and personal profile (50-100 words) to [email protected]. Recent News April 29, 2022 Earth Day 2022: Engaging State-Owned Enterprises in Climate Action The center invited Philippe Benoit, adjunct senior research scholar at Center on Global Energy Policy, to present his recent research. Tags Beijing: Environment and SustainabilityGlobal Themes: Science, Engineering, and Environment news April 11, 2022 How can China improve classroom teaching quality and efficiency through lesson preparation groups? Schools and teachers in China have made increased efforts to avoid a decline in educational performance. Tags Beijing Education Panel SeriesGlobal Themes: Arts and Humanities news April 08, 2022 Book Launch and Panel Discussion for "Soft-Power Internationalism: Competing for Cultural Influence in the 21st-Century Global Order” Tags Beijing: Arts, Culture & HistoryGlobal Themes: International and Public Affairs news More News Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close