Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Equitable Access to COVID-19 Vaccine: Challenges and Solutions Tunis Equitable Access to COVID-19 Vaccine: Challenges and Solutions March 03, 2021 <div class="video-text"> <div class="container"> </div> </div> </div> </div> </div> <div id="main-article-inner" role="article" about="/news/equitable-access-covid-19-vaccine-challenges-and-solutions" typeof="schema:Article"> <div class="row"> <div class="col-md-10 col-lg-10 with-article-social-container"> <div class="field field--name-field-cu-content field--type-entity-reference-revisions field--label-hidden field--items"> <div class="field--item"><div id="cu_social_media_embed-32597" class="paragraph paragraph--type--cu-social-media-embed paragraph--view-mode--default anchored"> <div class="field field--name-field-cu-embed-code field--type-string-long field--label-hidden embed-code"> <iframe src="https://www.facebook.com/plugins/video.php?height=314&href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2FCGCTunis%2Fvideos%2F4422872864407493%2F&show_text=false&width=560" width="560" height="314" style="border:none;overflow:hidden" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowFullScreen="true"> In collaboration with CGC Amman and CGC Istanbul, CGC Tunis hosted Dr.Özge Karadağ Çaman, Dr. Amira Hamadeh, Rula Amin and Dr. Yanis Ben Amor for a conversation on "Equal Access to COVID-19 Vaccine: Challenges and Solutions." Among the world’s millions of refugees, there is concern that many may be excluded from their host countries’ national vaccine programs or face added barriers to access due to a shortfall of COVID-19 vaccine supplies. Even in host countries that have started vaccinating refugees, those who are undocumented may remain sidelined. Failure to include vulnerable populations in their coronavirus response will undoubtedly undermine a global recovery from the pandemic. This webinar brings together experts who will discuss the perils of vaccine nationalism. They will investigate what the international community needs to do to improve vaccination coverage for migrants and forcibly displaced people, and what is required to bring an equitable vaccine allocation process in refugee-hosting countries. Panelists: Dr.Özge Karadağ Çaman works as a Public Health Researcher at the Center for Sustainable Development of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. Dr. Karadag Caman earned her medical doctor degree at Istanbul University, and her MSc and Ph.D. Degrees in Public Health at Hacettepe University in Turkey. She also holds a postgrad degree in health promotion from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Dr. Karadag Caman has more than 15 years of experience in research and public health policy/program development for different vulnerable/ disadvantaged population groups. Her current work focuses on research, advocacy and training activities regarding the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the most vulnerable populations including migrants and refugees and how to use innovative outreach approaches and digital technologies to increase access to health information and health care among refugee and disadvantaged local youth in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. She is one of the experts working for The Lancet COVID-19 Commission Secretariat and the Global Happiness Council. Dr. Amira Hamadeh serves as the Regional Vaccination Program and Medical Movement Coordinator at the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in MENA, posted in Amman. She joined the organization in 2011 as a Migration Health Physician. Under her current portfolio as a Regional Vaccine program coordinator, she assists with the implementation of Refugee Vaccination Programs in over 15 countries in MENA, she works with IOM country teams to improve vaccination coverage for refugees undergoing resettlement, as well as vaccination training, outbreak response, monitoring and evaluation activities. She also coordinates the medical movements of refugees who have significant medical conditions who are being resettled from MENA Countries. Dr. Hamadeh is a Regional Master Trainer for Vaccination and Physical Examination. She earned her Medical Degree from Jordan University of Science and Technology and has a Master’s Degree in Public Health from the University of Edinburgh, UK. Rula Amin is the Senior Communications Advisor at UNHCR Regional Bureau for the Middle East and North Africa. She leads UNHCR’s Communications work in the MENA region which hosts more than 16 million people of concern to UNHCR including refugees, asylum seekers, internally displaced, and stateless people. Before joining UNHCR in 2017, Amin worked as a correspondent for Aljazeera Intl based in Beirut and covering Lebanon and Syria. Amin started her journalism career with CNN in Jerusalem covering the Palestinian Israeli conflict and the Middle East. Amin traveled across the region as she covered the news for CNN including from Baghdad, Damascus, Cairo, and Sanaa. As a correspondent for leading Intl News organizations, AJE and CNN, Amin covered the region’s most critical moments of war and peace, other major developments as well as the political and social consequences of such major events in the ME hotspots like Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, and Yemen. She holds a Master's Degree from Columbia Journalism School. Moderator: Dr. Yanis Ben Amor is the Executive Director of the Center for Sustainable Development, a leading center on research around the Sustainable Development Goals-based at Columbia University. Dr. Ben Amor is also the Director of the Tropical Laboratory Initiative, a program launched by Columbia to promote access to diagnostic services to patients in remote rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Dr. Ben Amor has a Ph.D. in Molecular Biology, and a Masters in the same discipline from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure Agronomique de Rennes (Rennes, France). Tags Istanbul Amman Research Amman Public Istanbul Research News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close