Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Global Centers and Programs Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center 3708 Chestnut Street The Albert M. Greenfield Intercultural Center is Penn's resource for enhancing student's intercultural knowledge, competency, and leadership through our programs, advising, and advocacy. They do this by offering experiential courses for credit, signature intercultural programs, and other services related to diversity and intercultural education. Botswana-UPenn Partnership 240 John Morgan Building, 3620 Hamilton Walk The Botswana-UPenn Partnership (BUP) believes that quality medicine should be available to populations in need. Through clinical care, research and medical education, it is devoted to building capacity in sustainable and high quality healthcare in Botswana. The BUP is comprised of three main partners: the Government of Botswana, the University of Botswana and the University of Pennsylvania. Center for Advanced Research in Global Communication Annenberg School for Communication The Center for Advanced Research in Global Communication (CARGC) is an institute of advanced study that aims to produce world class, field-defining research, grounded in a vision of “inclusive globalization” that embraces bottom-up actors and the stunning diversity of global media, politics and culture. Center for the Advanced Study of India 133 South 36th Street, Suite 230 Founded in 1992, the Center for the Advanced Study of India at the University of Pennsylvania is the first research institution in the United States dedicated to the study of contemporary India. A national resource, it fills an urgent need for objective knowledge of India's politics and society, rapidly changing economy, and transformation as both an ancient civilization and major contemporary power. Center for Africana Studies 3401 Walnut Street, Suite 331A The Center for Africana Studies is dedicated to fostering a deeper understanding of the peoples of Africa and their diasporas. Through its research, academic initiatives and public programming, the Center’s work seeks to explore the profound ways in which African peoples have functioned on a global scale and how their experiences have resonated around the world throughout history. Center for Asian Law University of Pennsylvania Law School, 3501 Sansom Street The Center for Asian Law (CAL) at Penn is a collaborative faculty and student effort to nurture innovative thinking on and analysis of international, and comparative law and policy in Asia. The Center has two goals. The first is to engage in cutting-edge thinking in academic and policy-relevant teaching, research and scholarship focused on Asia. The second is to act as a public forum by hosting seminars, workshops and conferences and by providing comparative law scholars at Penn Law and around the world a platform for intellectual exchange. Center for East Asian Studies 642 Williams Hall, 255 South 36th Street The Center for East Asian Studies at the University of Pennsylvania is an interdisciplinary unit composed of faculty members whose teaching and research focus primarily on China, Japan, Korea, and bordering areas. Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law (CERL) University of Pennsylvania Law School, 3501 Sansom Street The Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law (CERL) is a non-partisan interdisciplinary institute dedicated to the preservation and promotion of the rule of law in 21st century warfare and national security. The only center of its kind housed within a law school, CERL draws from the study of law, philosophy, and ethics to answer the difficult questions that arise in times of war and contemporary transnational conflicts. Center for Global Health 240 John Morgan Building, 3620 Hamilton Walk The mission of the Center for Global Health is to improve health equity worldwide – through enhanced public health awareness and access to care, discovery and outcomes based research, and comprehensive educational programs grounded in partnership. Center for Global Women's Health 418 Curie Boulevard The Center for Global Women’s Health (CGWH) is an interdisciplinary collection of faculty and students who collaborate on women’s health scholarship, education, and clinical practice relevant to global issues. The Center for High Impact Philanthropy 3815 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6179 The Center for High Impact Philanthropy (CHIP) is the only university-based center with a singular focus on philanthropy for social impact. Founded as a collaboration between the School of Social Policy & Practice and alumni of the Wharton School, it is a trusted source of knowledge and education to help donors around the world do more good. Center for Italian Studies 521 Williams Hall, 255 South 36th Street The Center for Italian Studies, the first of its kind in the United States, was created in 1978. The Center's mission is to support Penn's faculty and students in their research and pedagogy, while engaging the latest trends in Italian Studies, including topics of literature, music, theatre, art, film, history, politics, economy, and society; to broaden the impact of Penn-based Italian Studies beyond Penn’s campus; to foster relationships between Penn and the following constituencies: Philadelphia’s Italian-American community, governmental entities representing Italy in the U.S., research centers and cultural organizations promoting Italian issues in the U.S. Center for Latin American and Latinx Studies (CLALS) 472 McNeil Building, 3718 Locust Walk Center for Latin American and Latinx Studies (CLALS) is an interdisciplinary research and teaching Center for the study of Latin America and Latinx populations. Our vision is to provide the human and intellectual capital capable of addressing the most pressing challenges and opportunities that Latin America and Latinx populations will face during the 21st century. Center for Public Health Initiatives Anatomy Chemistry Building, Room 148, 3620 Hamilton Walk The University of Pennsylvania's Center for Public Health Initiatives (CPHI) is a university-wide center which was founded in 2007 by the Provost’s Office with the mission of educating and training new and emerging public health leaders, fostering multi-disciplinary collaborations, and promoting excellence in public health research and community partnerships. The Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies (FQT Center) 3340 Walnut Street The Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies (FQT Center) is Penn’s premier institutional site supporting collaborative academic research, artistic production, and public engagement for scholars, artists, students, and activists who are invested in gender and sexuality studies. In doing so, the FQT Center builds connections between research initiatives and social justice movements, the Penn community and the city and world beyond. The Center for the Study of Contemporary China The Center for the Study of Contemporary China (CSCC) was established in 2012 at the University of Pennsylvania to advance Penn’s leadership in programs, research, and scholarship about the political, legal, economic, and social factors shaping China and its role in the world today. The Center sustains and extends the University’s work on and partnerships in China, providing an institutional home for campus-wide collaboration among departments, programs, institutes, faculty and students at Penn engaged in work pertaining to contemporary China. The Center also provides support for faculty and graduate student research and hosts visiting international scholars and prominent public leaders. Center for Undergraduate Research & Fellowships The ARCH, 3601 Locust Walk The Center for Undergraduate Research and Fellowships serves as the University of Pennsylvania's information hub and primary support office for Penn students and alumni considering applying for major grants and fellowships. Christopher H. Browne Center for International Politics 222 Stiteler Hall, 208 South 37th Street Founded with support of Penn alumnus Christopher H. Browne, C' 69, the Center was established at the University of Pennsylvania in 1997 in order to promote interdisciplinary research and teaching across the University community on issues of international relations, international security, and international political economy. Civic House Civic House is Penn's hub for student-led community servic and social advocacy work. Civic House promotes mutually beneficial collaborations between the Penn and West Philadelphia communities, and beyond. Through education, community connections, and other resources, Civic House prepares students for responsible and effective civic engagement and leadership. Civic House's vision is to support Penn students in responsible community engagement and inspire them to serve as lifelong thoughtful citizens and advocates for social change. Department of Africana Studies 3401 Walnut Street, Suite 331A Africana Studies is an interdisciplinary field of study devoted to the critical and systematic examination of the cultural, political, social, economic, and historical experiences of African Americans, Africans, and peoples of African descent around the world. Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations 847 Williams Hall, 255 S. 36th Street The Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations (EALC) is a department of interdisciplinary scholars who focus on the humanistic tradition of East Asia, covering both the classical and modern civilizations of China, Japan and Korea. We teach and research the disciplines of history, literary history, linguistics, art history, performance and gender studies, philosophy, religion and ethics. The Department offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in both Chinese and Japanese Studies and is building a parallel program for Korean Studies. Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures 745 Williams Hall, 255 South 36th Street The Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures at the University of Pennsylvania is the oldest academic program in German Studies in North America. The department is committed to its strong tradition in literary studies, while its distinguished faculty also represent a range of innovative and interdisciplinary approaches in the field. Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations 847 Williams Hall, 255 South, 36th Street The Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations (NELC) engages in the interdisciplinary humanistic study and teaching of the cultures of the Near East (often called the Middle East) as they express themselves in languages and texts, including both written and oral sources, as well as art, architecture, archaeology and material culture. These cultures encompass the geographic region that stretches from North Africa through the eastern Mediterranean, Arabia and Iran. Department of Romance Languages 255 South, 36th Street, 521 Williams Hall The Department of Romance Languages at the University of Pennsylvania offers courses in French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, and Catalan languages, literatures, and cultures at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Fels Institute of Government 3814 Walnut Street For over 80 years, the Fels Institute has prepared its students for a broad range of public leadership positions in city, state, and federal agencies; elective politics; nonprofit organizations; and private firms that serve the public interest. Global Medieval Studies School of Arts and Sciences Eleven Penn departments contribute to the undergraduate interdisciplinary program in Global Medieval Studies, allowing students to discover the premodern world together, as the root and necessary precondition to the modern. The program encourages students to view the world through the lens of various disciplinary and geographic perspectives and discover the interaction of diverse civilizations and religions. Global Support Services 3451 Walnut Street, 414 Franklin Building Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities. GSS works closely with the Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives to advise and support central organizations, schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. Graduate Student Center 3615 Locust Walk Established in 2001, the Graduate Student Center is the centrally-located home for graduate and professional students at Penn. Students are invited to relax, work, and enjoy the Center and its resources. Guatemala Health Initiative Perelman School of Medicine Guatemala Health Initiative (GHI) is an organization of students from the University of Pennsylvania working in partnership with communities in Guatemala. Since 2005, GHI has primarily worked with Hospitalito Atitlán to improve health in the Tz’utujil Maya town of Santiago Atitlán. Herbert D. Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies 420 Walnut Street The Herbert D. Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies at the University of Pennsylvania is devoted to post-doctoral research on Jewish civilization in all its historical and cultural manifestations, and is a model for institutions of its kind. The Katz Center's distinguished scholars and superb library holdings, along with Penn's outstanding faculty in Judaic studies, have established the University of Pennsylvania as one of the world's major centers for the study of Jewish civilization. Huntsman Program in International Studies & Business 3732 Locust Walk The Huntsman Program in International Studies & Business is a unique, four-year interdisciplinary undergraduate course of study that integrates business education, advanced language training and a liberal arts education. Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership 620 Jon M. Huntsman Hall, Philadelphia, PA 19104 The Wharton-led, Penn-wide Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) promotes knowledge for business sustainability. IGEL works with a diverse and interdisciplinary network to develop and disseminate innovative research and business practices to solve the most pressing environmental issues facing our planet. The INSEAD-Wharton Alliance University of Pennsylvania, 413 Vance Hall, Philadelphia, PA, 19104 The INSEAD-Wharton Alliance is a commitment from both schools to enable & encourage mutual collaboration in MBA, Executive Education, PhD, Faculty exchange, R&D, and in Alumni activities. The INSEAD-Wharton Center for Global Research & Education supports the development of innovative programs and teaching materials involving faculty members from the two schools. International Educational Development Program Graduate School of Education, 3700 Walnut Street The International Educational Development Program is an interdisciplinary program housed at the Graduate School of Education with affiliated faculty drawn from across the University. Through rigorous academic course work, coupled with hands on experiences, our program prepares students with the distinctive skills required for working in the field of education and development. International Student & Scholar Services St. Leonard's Ct., Suite 305 (3rd Floor), 3819-33 Chestnut Street International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) aims to advance global engagement at the University of Pennsylvania and affiliated hospitals by offering inclusive, innovative and impactful immigration and integration services. James Joo-Jin Kim Program in Korean Studies 642 Williams Hall, 255 S. 36th Street James Joo-Jin Kim Program in Korean Studies promotes interdisciplinary research and teaching across the university community on issues related to Korea. Kelly Writers House 3805 Locust Walk Founded in 1995 by a group of students, faculty, staff and alumni, the Kelly Writers House is an actual 13-room house at 3805 Locust Walk on Penn's campus that serves as a center for writers of all kinds from Penn and the Philadelphia region at large. Kleinman Center for Energy Policy Fisher Fine Arts Building, Room 401 220 S. 34th St. The Kleinman Center for Energy Policy creates the conditions for policy innovation that support a just and efficient transition to sustainable energy. They envision an equitable energy system that optimizes productivity through smart demand, sustainable supply, and compensated externalities. La Casa Latina: The Center for Hispanic Excellence 3601 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104 The Center for Hispanic Excellence: La Casa Latina promotes greater awareness of Latinx issues, culture, and identity at Penn. La Casa Latina works closely with the Penn community to offer a supportive environment where all students are welcomed and engaged in programs, events, and dialogues that address important issues affecting Latinxs/Hispanics locally, nationally, and internationally. The Lauder Institute 256 South 37th Street, 2nd Floor The Joseph H. Lauder Institute for Management & International Studies was founded by brothers Leonard and Ronald Lauder in 1983 in honor of their father, Joseph H. Lauder. The Lauder Institute provides a fully integrated business education for a new generation of leaders, preparing them to speak the language of global business, culture, and politics fluently. Our students are committed to preparing themselves for a world of specialization, change, and uncertainty. Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics Colonial Penn Center, 3641 Locust Walk The Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics (LDI) was created to fill fundamental gaps in the evidence base that could inform policies critical to the financing and management of the nation's increasingly costly and complex health care system. Considered one of the world’s leading university-based programs of its kind, LDI is a cooperative venture among Penn’s health professions, business, and communications schools (Medicine, Wharton, Nursing, Dental Medicine, Law School, and Annenberg School for Communication) and the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, with linkages to other Penn schools, including Arts & Sciences, Education, Social Policy and Practice, and Veterinary Medicine. LGBT Center 3907 Spruce St The Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Center enriches the experience and fosters the success of Penn's lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender students. The primary activities of the Center are outreach and education, supportive services for individuals and campus organizations, including network facilitation, and advocacy for sensitive, inclusive University policies and practices. Linguistic Data Consortium 3600 Market Street, Suite 810 Formed in 1992 to address the critical data shortage then facing language technology research and development, the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) is an open consortium of universities, libraries, corporations and government research laboratories. Mack Institute for Innovation Management The Wharton School Established in 2001, the Mack Institute for Innovation Management joins rigorous research with practical applications to help established firms navigate the risks and rewards of innovation, emphasizing multi-disciplinary, cross-functional perspectives. Makuu: The Black Cultural Center 3601 Locust Walk Makuu: The Black Cultural Center is a nexus of academic, professional and personal growth for University of Pennsylvania students interested in Black culture and the African Diaspora. Through advising, leadership development, network facilitation, and cultural programming, Makuu expands student access to the University's resources, enhancing Penn's campus and global communities. McNeil Center for Early American Studies 3355 Woodland Walk Established as the Philadelphia Center for Early American Studies in 1978, and renamed in honor of its benefactor Robert L. McNeil, Jr., in 1998, the McNeil Center facilitates scholarly inquiry into the histories and cultures of North America in the Atlantic world before 1850, with a particular emphasis on the mid-Atlantic region. The Middle East Center 3340 Walnut Street, Fisher-Bennett Hall, Suite 228 The Middle East Center aims to raise awareness of the unique circumstances of the region through research and instructional programs. The MEC has adopted an interdisciplinary approach to the study of the Middle East, and it offers a wide range of educational opportunities to support this endeavor. Netter Center for Community Partnerships 111 South 38th Street, Second Floor Founded in 1992, the Barbara and Edward Netter Center for Community Partnerships is Penn’s primary vehicle for bringing to bear the broad range of human knowledge needed to solve the complex, comprehensive, and interconnected problems of the American city so that West Philadelphia (Penn’s local geographic community), Philadelphia, the University itself, and society benefit. Penn Abroad 3539 Locust Walk Penn Abroad serves as the hub for student global opportunities at the University of Pennsylvania. Each year the University sends over 2,500 Penn students to more than 50 countries around the world on semester study abroad, summer internships, service learning, and short-term programs. Pan-Asian American Community House (PAACH) 3601 Locust Walk, Suite G22 The Pan-Asian American Community House (PAACH) is a hub of academic, personal, and professional growth for University of Pennsylvania students interested in Asian American culture and the Asian American Diaspora. Through advising, leadership development, advocacy, social and cultural programming we expand student access to the University's resources. Penn Alliance for Higher Education and Democracy Graduate School of Education, 3700 Walnut Street The Alliance for Higher Education and Democracy (AHEAD) is dedicated to advancing higher education policy and practice that fosters open, equitable, and democratic societies. Through engagement with policy-makers, institutional leaders, scholars and practitioners, AHEAD produces research and applies research-based knowledge to address the most pressing issues pertaining to the public purposes of higher education in the U.S. and around the globe. Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement 101 Constitution Ave. NW, Suite 600W Washington, DC, 20001 The Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement at the University of Pennsylvania is founded on the principle that a democratic, open, secure, tolerant, and interconnected world benefits all Americans. Based in our nation’s capital, the Penn Biden Center engages more of our fellow citizens in shaping this world, while ensuring the gains of global engagement are widely shared. Penn Development Research Initiative Perelman Center for Political Science and Economics, 133 S. 36th Street, Room 428 The Penn Development Research Initiative (PDRI) brings together faculty and graduate students across the University of Pennsylvania whose research seeks to identify solutions to the challenges facing developing countries. PDRI seeks to foster impactful international development research by harnessing the expertise of its affiliates from various disciplines and utilizing diverse methodological approaches. Penn Institute for Urban Research Meyerson Hall, G-12, 210 South 34th Street The Penn Institute for Urban Research (Penn IUR) is a university-wide body that informs urban decision-making and public policy on issues of sustainable urban growth and development based on multi-disciplinary research, instruction, and outreach. Penn Language Center 715-716 Williams Hall Since 1989, Penn Language Center (PLC) strengthens Penn’s language education and consistently supports the development of language professionals. In particular, PLC focuses on current trends in online instruction and teaching from within the National Standards. Penn Libraries Global 3420 Walnut St. Since 1750, the Penn Libraries have served the teaching, research and learning needs of scholars. Housed within Penn Libraries, Penn Libraries Global is a rich network of information resources and human expertise, offering access to knowledge at Penn and around the world. Penn Museum 3260 South Street The University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology was founded in 1887 to bring together under one roof artifacts that evidenced the development and history of humanity from antiquity to the present, for the most part excavated or acquired through the Museum's own research missions. Penn-Temple European Studies Colloquium The Penn-Temple European Studies Colloquium (PTESC) is an initiative of the University of Pennsylvania and Temple University that convenes faculty and students with a common interest in the study of Europe across the Delaware Valley. PTESC aims to foster learning and dialogue across disciplinary boundaries, though its primary emphasis is on the study of contemporary politics, political economy, and history in Europe. Penn Wharton China Center World Financial Center, West Building, 16F, No. 1 East Third Ring Middle Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100020, China The March 2015 opening of the Penn Wharton China Center (PWCC) represented the substantial commitment to advance the long history of engagement with China by the Wharton School and its parent university, the University of Pennsylvania (Penn), in an increasingly interconnected global environment. Perry World House 3803 Locust Walk Perry World House is a center for scholarly inquiry, teaching, research, international exchange, policy engagement, and public outreach on pressing global issues. Located in the heart of campus at 38th Street and Locust Walk, it draws on the expertise of Penn’s 12 schools and numerous globally-oriented research centers to educate the Penn community and prepare students to be well-informed, contributing global citizens. At the same time, Perry World House connects Penn with leading policy experts from around the world to develop and advance innovative policy proposals. Population Studies Center 239 McNeil Building, 3718 Locust Walk The Population Studies Center (PSC) at the University of Pennsylvania has fostered research and training in population since 1962. Its goal is to remain a national and world leader in research on the growth and structure of human populations and on the role of socioeconomic stratification and human and social diversity on the health of populations. Robert A. Fox Leadership Program Leadership Hall, 3814 Walnut Street Administered by the School of Arts and Sciences (SAS), The Robert A. Fox Leadership Program engages and supports Penn undergraduates and recent alumni not only in the College of Arts and Sciences and College of Liberal and Professional Studies, but also in the Wharton School, the Nursing School, and the Engineering School. The program has five components: research and service fellowships (undergraduates and recent alumni); teaching, advising and service-learning; events and training; partnerships and special projects; and Fox Leadership International. Russian and East European Studies 745 Williams Hall, 255 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305 The Russian and East European Studies Department at Penn is a tight-knit community dedicated to advancing knowledge of a vast and unique region of the world. Faculty interests and expertise span many centuries, countries, languages, and disciplines. Students can study medieval Czech manuscripts, population and health in Eastern Europe, 19th century Russian literature, nationalism and film in the Balkans, Russian and East European foreign policy, Byzantine art, gender and sexuality, and Putin’s Russia. The department teaches an array of East European languages, including Hungarian, and Russian to the advanced level. South Asia Center 820 Williams Hall, 255 S. 36th Street The South Asia Center's mission is to enhance the study of South Asia (India, Pakistan, Afghanistran, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, and the Maldives) at Penn and within the wider community. The Center supports faculty and student research, conferences, curriculum development, outreach, and other activities and events related to modern and pre-modern South Asia. The Center connects scholars with interests in South Asia across the Humanities, Social Sciences, and Penn’s professional schools, and within the wider community. South Asia Studies 820 Williams Hall, 36th and Spruce Streets The study of South Asia at Penn has a tradition stretching back over a hundred years. Today, the South Asia Studies Department is a close-knit community of interdisciplinary scholars that combines expertise in the languages, literatures, histories, and cultures of South Asia. At present, students can study Sanskrit, Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, Kannada, Telugu, Panjabi, Malayalam, Marathi and Gujarati through the South Asia Studies Department, and can take courses in the disciplines of History, Literature, Anthropology, Art History, and Religious Studies. Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program 212 Lauder-Fischer Hall, 256 S. 37TH Street The Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program (TTCSP) at the International Relations Program, University of Pennsylvania conducts research on the role policy institutes play in governments and in civil societies around the world. This international collaborative effort is designed to establish regional and international networks of policy institutes and communities that will improve policy making and strengthen democratic institutions and civil societies around the world. The Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program works with some of the leading scholars and practitioners from think tanks and universities in a variety of collaborative efforts and programs. UPIASI India Habitat Centre, Core 5A, 1st Floor, Lodi Road, New Delhi-110 003, India The University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India (UPIASI) is the counterpart institution in New Delhi of the Center for the Advanced Study of India (CASI). Since 1997, UPIASI's portfolio of activities has grown to comprise over a dozen research projects and two fellowship programs. UPIASI's collaborative research projects have engaged scholars across a range of institutions in India, USA, UK, Canada, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Japan, China, Thailand, Malaysia, and Israel. Weiss Tech House Levine Hall, Rm 266 3330 Walnut Street Weiss Tech House is a student-run hub of technological innovation at the University of Pennsylvania. Since 2003, the Weiss Tech House has supported students with a broad range of interests and skills have come here to explore, collaborate and learn as part of our community of innovators and entrepreneurs. Weiss Tech House helps students in the development and/or commercialization of innovative technologies. Wharton Global Family Alliance The Wharton School Established in 2004, the Wharton Global Family Alliance (Wharton GFA) is a unique academic-family business partnership established through an agreement between the Wharton School and the CCC Alliance. The Wharton GFA is designed to create and disseminate knowledge that is helpful to substantial families and to their businesses. Wharton International Program The Wharton School Wharton International Program (WIP) is a short-term international business course that gives undergraduate students an amazing global opportunity featuring business site visits, faculty lectures at our partner schools, cultural excursions, and networking opportunities with undergraduate students and business contacts from the destination countries. The Wharton Social Impact Initiative The Wharton School The Wharton Social Impact Initiative advances the science and practice of social impact through rigorous academic research and training and outreach. 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy