Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Book Talk and Panel Discussion for "The Wuhan Lockdown" Events Past Event Book Talk and Panel Discussion for "The Wuhan Lockdown" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 21, 2022 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Online *By clicking "Register Here", you are deemed to consent to all conditions and terms of the Consent Note for Personal Information Processing, including the cross-border transfer of your personal information as described in Article II.3 of the consent note. If you do not agree to all the conditions and terms hereof, please do not click. Time: May 21, 2022, 9:00AM-10:00AM (Beijing) | May 20, 2022, 9:00PM-10:00PM (New York) Event language: Chinese In the blink of an eye, it has been two years since Wuhan was locked down. As we look back on the most challenging days at the inception of the COVID-19 pandemic, there were not only agony and desperation but also countless touching and hopeful stories. To mark the second anniversary of an unprecedented lockdown in Wuhan in fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Columbia University Press cordially invite you to attend a virtual book talk and panel discussion for The Wuhan Lockdown, a new book by Professor Guobin Yang of the University of Pennsylvania. This book pays tribute to every ordinary hero who played an extraordinary role in the darkest moment. Professor Yang will be joined by Professor Fei Yan of Tsinghua University and Zheng Fu, a Ph.D. candidate of Columbia University, to review the past, reflect on the remarkable success, experiences, and lesson-learned, and forge ahead with new spirits. About the Book This book tells the dramatic story of the Wuhan lockdown in the voices of the city’s own people. Using a vast archive of more than 6,000 diaries, the sociologist Guobin Yang vividly depicts how the city coped during the crisis. He analyzes how the state managed—or mismanaged—the lockdown and explores how Wuhan’s residents responded by taking on increasingly active roles. Yang demonstrates that citizen engagement—whether public action or the civic inaction of staying at home—was essential in the effort to fight the pandemic. The book features compelling stories of citizens and civic groups in their struggle against COVID-19: physicians, patients, volunteers, government officials, feminist organizers, social media commentators, and even aunties loudly swearing at party officials. These snapshots from the lockdown capture China at a critical moment, revealing the intricacies of politics, citizenship, morality, community, and digital technology. Presenting the extraordinary experiences of ordinary people, The Wuhan Lockdown is an unparalleled account of the first moments of the crisis that would define the age. Speakers Guobin Yang is the Grace Lee Boggs Professor of Communication and Sociology at the Annenberg School for Communication and the Department of Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, where he directs the Center on Digital Culture and Society and serves as deputy director of the Center for the Study of Contemporary China. His previous Columbia University Press books are The Red Guard Generation and Political Activism in China (2016) and The Power of the Internet in China: Citizen Activism Online (2009). Fei Yan is an Associate Professor in Sociology at Tsinghua University. He received his Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Oxford and completed a postdoc from Stanford University. His research focuses on political sociology, historical sociology, contentious politics, and Chinese societies. His work has appeared in Social Science Research, Urban Studies, Social Movement Studies, Oxford Bibliographies in Sociology, Modern China, and The China Review. He has been awarded the Graduate Student Best Paper Prize by the Association for Asian Studies in 2015. Moderator Zheng Fu is a Ph.D. student and a Paul F. Lazarsfled Fellow in the Department of Sociology at Columbia University. Her current research projects broadly concern the intersection of political sociology, labor, and economic sociology in authoritarian contexts. Her current projects involve cross-country comparison on nationalism, network analysis on international populism, the dynamics of street-level bureaucracy in the United States, and cross-country comparison of expertise in the time of COVID-19 pandemics. Her latest work on global COVID-19 comparison is forthcoming at Sociological Forum. She graduated from Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 2018 with an M.Phil degree in Social Science. She also gained an M.A. degree in Sociology from Columbia University in 2020. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close