Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Financial Aid Cultural Adjustment Current Students Faculty & Staff Family Support Off-Campus Housing On-Campus Housing Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission and Goals Meet Our Team Make an Appointment with an Advisor Statistics Services and Hours "OISS Digest" Newsletter Students Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current F-1 Students Current J-1 Students OISS Orientations Faculty & Scholars Prospective Faculty and Scholars Current Faculty and Scholars Departments Admitting International Students Hosting Special Groups Sponsoring/Hiring International Faculty, Staff, and Scholars (H-1B, J-1 Scholars, TN) Resources for Supporting the International Community at Tulane International Partners Outreach Group (IPOG) Quick Links/Resources Get Involved Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS & SCHOLARS Office of International Students & Scholars Our Role Within the Global Community Tulane’s Office of International Students & Scholars is the designated office on campus to provide immigration advising and support services to Tulane's international community, specifically individuals in F, J, and H status. We invite you to explore our website as it provides comprehensive information on government regulations and other important campus and community resources. Also make sure you check out the Calendar of Events for upcoming programs and activities! OISS is your home away from home and it is our privilege to serve you. Our strong belief is that an international community enriches Tulane University and New Orleans, making it an essential component to understanding our role within the current global landscape. We invite all students, faculty, staff, and the community to be a part of this ever-growing international culture and to relish the contributions that this population brings to our surroundings. Donate to the International/Undocumented Student Emergency Fund International Students This section contains specific information for both new and continuing undergraduate, exchange, and graduate students in F-1 and J-1 visa status at Tulane. Faculty and Scholars The scholar section contains specific information for J-1 visiting scholars/professors, and H-1B employees at Tulane University. Departments This section contains important information for Tulane departments on how to host visiting scholars, sponsor H-1B employees, and bring special international groups to campus. Services and Hours OISS hours, general information and guidance. Request a Document or Appointment Learn about making an appointment and requesting documents from the OISS team. Orientations Complete orientation information for new international students. Tulane’s International Community is making Waves. Our International students and scholars talk Tulane, New Orleans and their involvement in OISS. Announcements End of Semester Reminders Optional Practical Training E-Form Now Available for F-1 Students #TUCitizen, Thyn Zar Oo, Finds Home-In-Exile in the Law School Immigration Announcements Other OISS Announcements Link to Tulane Home Page Office of International Students & Scholars 6901 Willow Street New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5208 oiss@tulane.edu Maps & Directions About OISS Students Faculty and Scholars Departments Resources Suggestion Form News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University