Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home 'Pioneer Open Mic' Second Event: New Consumer Goods Industry Events Past Event 'Pioneer Open Mic' Second Event: New Consumer Goods Industry Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 26, 2021 2:00 PM - 6:00 PM Beijing Time: 2:00 - 6:00 PM (Beijing) 📍 Address: Zhongguancun Yonghe Hangxing Science Park, 8 Building 1F Multipurpose Room, 1 East Binhe Rd, Dongcheng District, Beijing Launched by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Center, the 'Pioneer Open Mic' business incubation program provides young entrepreneurs of Columbia University and other Ivy League schools with access to life-changing opportunities to empower their talents and passion for innovation. Learn more about the program and apply HERE. The second event of the program will focus on how entrepreneurs in the consumer goods industry create stronger brands and establish contact and identity with consumers through digital channels. During this event, entrepreneurs from Columbia University, University of Toronto, Tsinghua University, and the National University of Singapore will share their entrepreneurial projects, stories, and visions. Representatives from the Beijing Center, Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Center, and presidents of Columbia alumni clubs will also attend the event and give remarks. Speakers Naizeng Fang, Founder of Coco 100 Fang graduated with a masters degree from Columbia University, and was an investor and Vice President of Xinzhongli Capital. Coco 100 is a food and beverages company centered around coconut-created products. His company is dedicated to serving millennial consumers with a healthier lifestyle, starting with beverages made out of coconuts and expanding into various other product lines. Yuan Ma, Founder of L’Origine (Yuanben Ziran) Ma graduated from Columbia University with a Masters in Statistics, obtained an undergraduate degree from Tsinghua University and a PhD degree from Tsinghua in algorithm research. L’Origine is a probiotic beverage company. Its two product lines “Hims” and “Hers” are probiotic solid powder beverages, aimed at providing drinkers with a healthy and convenient lifestyle. Xinran Hou, Founder of Jiaxi Hou is a serial entrepreneur hailing from Columbia Business School. She was a management consultant at Monitor Group, a Commercialization Manager at Teambition (Alibaba), and pursued her undergraduate studies at Shanghai Jiaotong University in Materials Science. Hou’s company Jiaxi is an alcoholic bottled beverage company that seeks to bring to public new ways to enjoy Baijiu. Her inspiration came when she came across a particularly memorable Baijiu cocktail while studying at Columbia. She decided to create a company to bring that unique blend of East and West to China, and has combined electronic music, LGBT and subculture community building in the marketing of her product. Haiteng Li, Founder of Moren Li graduated from the University of Toronto with a Bachelor’s degree in computer science and obtained his Master’s degree in computer science from Tsinghua University. He once led the research effort of the TCM Constitution and disease classification based on deep neural networks. In the summer of 2012, after many unsuccessful attempts of Western medical treatment in Toronto, he was successful treated by traditional Chinese medicine for a condition. After this experience, Li began to study Chinese medicine and brainstorm ways to improve the quality of life of young people by making them experience the unique value of Chinese medicine. Li will talk about his entrepreneurial project "Moren", a Chinese health care brand aiming to make Chinese herbal medicine products popular among the younger generations of Chinese. Panelists Li Li In 2017, Li co-founded Next Capital, focusing on new consumer goods, services, and tech startups in the fields of telecommunication, media, and technology. Li is also the founder of Xiaofanzhuo. Shanshan (Vinnie) Ying Ying has 15 years of experience working in Fortune Global 500 companies, the consumer goods industry, and entrepreneurship. Ying earned an EMBA from Guanghua School of Management at Peking University and Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, a Master in Financial Markets and Portfolio Management from Hong Kong University. She is currently studying at the Academy of Arts and Design, Qinghua University. Agenda 1:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Sign in 2:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Opening Speech and Introduction 2:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Naizeng Fang, Founder of Coco 100 3:00 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Yuan Ma, Founder of L’Origine 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Open Mic Hours: Brainstorming open mic for everyone to present 4:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Xinran Hou, Founder of Jiaxi 4:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Pioneer Pitch by Haiteng Li, Founder of Moren 5:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m. Panel Discussion 6:00 p.m. Alumni Networking Party Reminders Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close