Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to main content Open menu Utility Menu Students Explore Abroad Choose Texas Global Learning On Campus Study English Immigration Advising Faculty & Staff Global Engagement Opportunities Department and Staff Resources International Scholars Global Community Alumni and Giving Global Programs and Innovation International Education Week Mexico Global Gateway Passport Services Request a Delegation Visit About About Texas Global Senior Vice Provost Welcome Global Engagement & Strategy Reports and Statistics Global Rankings Leadership & Staff Careers Open add menu Global Offices Texas Global partners with faculty, departments, colleges and schools across the university to advance UT Austin’s mission and enhance its international reputation. Global Connections on Campus The depth and scope of UT’s global academics are evident in the vast network of centers, programs and organizations dedicated to international scholarship, research, creative activity and teaching. Global Research and Creative Activity UT faculty engage in research and creative activities on every continent, advancing UT Austin’s academic mission and global impact. Newsroom Events Contact Us Alumni and Giving Donate Open Search form Support and Resources A message to the international student and scholar community COVID-19 Resources Latest updates on Texas Global operations, resources, and communications related to COVID-19. Texas is Global What starts here changes the world News International Students Sweep 2022 Graduate School Awards Read the Story about International Students Sweep 2022 Graduate School Awards News International Graduates Celebrate After Unprecedented College Experience Read the Story about International Graduates Celebrate After Unprecedented College Experience News Social Work Student Serves Refugee Youth in South Africa Read the Story about Social Work Student Serves Refugee Youth in South Africa News Students Travel with Division of Diversity to Study in Dubai, Abu Dhabi Read the Story about Students Travel with Division of Diversity to Study in Dubai, Abu Dhabi News Anti-Bullying in Azerbaijan: Collaboration Grows from Professional Fellows Program Read the Story about Anti-Bullying in Azerbaijan: Collaboration Grows from Professional Fellows Program Texas Around the World Your browser does not support the video tag. 7,800+ international students and scholars 140+ countries represented on campus 4,400+ students learning, interning and researching abroad 400+ education and internship programs in 100 countries 181+ countries with faculty research and creative concentrations 530K+ alumni living in 176 countries across the globe 400+ English language students annually $221.7M contributed by UT international students to the Texas economy 40+ global professional programs coordinated each year Launch the Global Explorer Be a Global Citizen. How will you change the world? I am - Select -a UT faculty membera UT studenta UT department/staffa student going abroadan international studentan international faculty or visiting scholaran individual or familyan alumna/alumnusan international visiting delegationan external organization and I want to - Select - and I want to - Select -explore global engagement opportunities on campuslead an education abroad programpropose a new international partnershiprequest a presentationseek fundingshare my research collaborationstravel internationally and I want to - Select -study a foreign languageapply for a Fulbright awardserve as a Peace Corps volunteerfind global learning opportunities on campusget involvedexplore global connections across campusattend an eventfind a student organizationintern abroad and I want to - Select -apply for a U.S. passportcomplete restricted regions processfind resources for students going abroadfind travel abroad resourceshire an international employee or scholaronboard a new international student and I want to - Select -apply for a U.S. Passportattend an information sessionfind a scholarshipfind health and safety resourceslearn, intern, or research abroadserve as a Peace Corps volunteerspeak to an advisor and I want to - Select -come to Texasconnect with campus programs and resourcesexplore Texas culturefind immigration informationmake an appointmentstudy Englishvisit campus and I want to - Select -find immigration informationmake an advising appointmentnetwork and connect and I want to - Select -apply for a U.S. passportfind an international event on campushost an international studentteach abroad and I want to - Select -make a giftread UT's global newsupdate my contact informationconnect with global alumni and I want to - Select -request a visit to the UT campus and I want to - Select -learn about sponsored student support serviceslearn about Texas Global's customized programsrequest a customized program Global Offices Texas Global takes UT’s academic mission worldwide. Global Engagement and Strategy Leading UT’s global engagement, coordinating international collaboration, and providing funding and resources. Special Initiatives Collaborating with academic units and international partners to develop innovative programs. Global Programs and Innovation Partnering with governments, universities and industry to train emerging leaders, professionals and entrepreneurs. English Language Center Providing exceptional English language programs for students, visiting scholars and professionals. Education Abroad Preparing Longhorns to lead in an interconnected world through a variety of programs, internships and research opportunities. View All Global Offices View Global Connections on Campus UT Austin is a globally connected campus with a vast network of internationally engaged entities. Area Study Centers and Flagship Programs Nationally recognized area study centers and foreign language programs at UT foster the development of expertise in global cultures and critical languages. International Board of Advisors This select group of alumni and influencers works with the president and senior leadership to expand UT’s global network and enhance its impact around the world. Centers and Institutes UT’s numerous centers provide services and resources for teaching and research relating to geographic areas and global issues. Departments and Programs Internationally focused programs provide students opportunities to broaden their global knowledge and perspectives. Student Involvement Hundreds of student activities and organizations at UT foster a diverse and rich global culture on campus. View All Global Connections on Campus View Global Research and Creative Activity Faculty research and engagement spans the globe, and Texas Global provides funding, resources and coordination to enhance UT’s global reach and impact. Institutional Agreements International collaboration and research are a vital and vibrant part of UT’s role as a tier-1 public research institution. Mapping Internationalization UT’s faculty and scholars engage and research across the world, impacting policy, changing lives and addressing the world’s greatest challenges. Fulbright Programs A wide range of research and professional exchange opportunities are available to UT faculty and staff and help bring international students and scholars to campus. Global Funding Opportunities Seed fund grants empower faculty to integrate global learning in their courses and take on innovative global research or engagement projects. Research Funding Database Additional funding and grant opportunities for UT faculty international research are available through the Office of the Vice President for Research. View All Global Research and Creative Activity View We are a Leading Global University The University of Texas at Austin is one of the highest ranked universities in the United States and the world. #1 Public University in Texas Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2022 #10 Among U.S. Public Universities U.S. News & World Report 2022 #31 World Reputation Ranking Times Higher Education World Reputation Rankings 2021 #43 Best Global University U.S. News & World Report Best Global Universities 2022 See more UT Austin global rankings facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Make a Gift Contact 2400 Nueces Street Suite B Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-1211 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., Monday – Friday Passport Services 8 a.m. – 2 p.m. Monday - Friday More Information Careers Communications Emergency Support Information for Departments International Travel Policies Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Website Feedback © The University of Texas at Austin 2022