Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Women Leadership Panel Series VIII Events Past Event Beijing Women Leadership Panel Series VIII Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 25, 2019 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Climbing to the peak of success is difficult, especially for women. On August 25, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the eighth discussion of the Center's Women Leadership Panel Series. This panel discussion features three women elites in the financial sector to share the most important and challenging decisions in their career and to provide their insights on career development and personal growth. Speakers Shirley HSU Hsu is currently working in Hong Kong as a CFO with TUS Pine Peak, an overseas investment platform of TUS Group, part of Tsinghua University Holding family. She started her investment banking career with Lehman Brothers on Wall Street and eventually relocated to Hong Kong with Chase Manhattan Bank. She was instrumental in the early Chinese capital market development with early H-share listing for Chinese companies on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, such as ZTE H-share listing, China Unicom listing, the listing of Bank of China Group and Bank of China Hong Kong. She also worked for a mainland Chinese conglomerate as a CEO for 7 years in financial services, fintech, luxury retail, resort golf hotels & chateaus and new world economy investment/ management. Hsu earned her MIA degree from Columbia University School of International Affairs and BA from Bryn Mawr College, and she was the president of Columbia Hong Kong Club. Huan GAO Gao received her master degree at Yale University. She is Senior Vice President at Wells Fargo Bank Beijing Branch, covering major relationships of Chinese financial institutions for business development. She joined the bank in Philadelphia and has held various positions in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing, including Chief Representative of its Beijing Rep Office. She has B.A. degree in English from Fudan University, M.A. degree in International Relations from Yale, and completed Finance and Accounting Program at the Wharton School. She also writes book reviews and essays for The Paper etc. Yun SHEN Shen holds a LL. M from Columbia University and a master of International Economic Law from China University of Political Science and Law. She currently works as the Compliance Director and Managing Director in Credit Suisse Founder Securities Limited. She worked for CICC Fund as the Inspector General, with intensive regulatory and legal compliance experiences in China Securities Regulatory Commission, United Bank of Switzerland Group, and China International Capital Corporation for nearly 20 years. Shen serves as a board member of several professional committees in Securities Association of China, Asset Management Association of China, and Shenzhen Stock Exchange. She is also an arbitrator in Beijing Arbitration Commission. Moderator Mudi LIANG Liang graduated from Columbia University with a master degree in Economics and Education, sponsored by a full scholarship from China Scholarship Committee. She used to work for Colorado State Government and World Bank. After relocating to Beijing, she joined China Securities Regulatory Commission, with frontier regulation experience in Shanghai Stock Exchange. And she's now pursuing her Ph.D in Tsinghua University. Liang collaborated the earlier version of Reg-tech platform and got involved in several latest policy-making process in China's capital market. She conducted researches in corporate governance, policy development in US Securities and Exchange Commission, and investor protection practices in Science and Technology Board. Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close