Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home On Campus Talk by Mr. Bing Wu: My Four Years with Shimo Docs Events Past Event On Campus Talk by Mr. Bing Wu: My Four Years with Shimo Docs Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 1, 2018 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Artosino, 265 West 37th Street, 16th Floor, New York, NY 10018 On March 1st, Mr. Bing Wu, who is the founder of Shimo Docs and is also a Columbia alumnus from SEAS, will come back to New York to share his entrepreneurial experience and insights with all Columbians. In 2014, Mr. Wu founded Shimo Docs, the first enterprise office software in China that supports cloud collaboration and features Chinese aesthetic design. In the meantime, Mr. Wu will also talk about the lessons he has learned from the founders of Toutiao and Tencent, Mr. Yonghao Luo, Founder of Smartisan, and Mr. Haoyong Yang, Founder of ganji.com. The event is co-hosted by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and NYC Chinese Entrepreneurs Organization (NYCCEO), and is supported by Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association, Columbia Business School Greater China Society, and Global China Connection – Columbia University. We welcome all Columbians to this event to ask questions and build connections. About Shimo Docs Shimo Docs is the first enterprise office software (similar to Google Docs, Quip) in China that supports cloud collaboration. It allows multiple users to operate on the same document with millisecond response time. In addition to a focus on collaboration. Shimo Docs was also designed in accordance to traditional Chinese aesthetics to bring local users the best experience all around. In 2015, Geeks Park listed Shimo Docs as one of the 50 Best Innovative Internet Products in China. In the Chinese SaaS cloud collaboration market, Shimo ranks the top by market share. In August 2016, Shimo Docs strategically published the enterprise version, and formed strategic alliance with DingTalk as the only new app endorsed. Speaker Mr. Wu Bing worked at Barclays Capital in New York Wall Street, which is one of the largest multinational financial services institutions in the world, before returning to China to work as a presidential management fellow under the CEO in the leading GIS professional software company. Mr. Wu holds a Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering from Wuhan University, and a Master's degree in Computer Science from Columbia University's Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. Agenda 7:00 p.m. - 7:05 p.m. Opening Remarks 7:05 p.m. - 8:25 p.m. Speech by Mr. Wu Bing 8:25 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Shimo Today Video Screening 8:30 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Q&A Special Notice The event will be conducted in Chinese. If you have any questions, please email to [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close