Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About Global Cornell Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership OVPIA Leadership Nishi Dhupa, Associate Vice Provost for International Affairs nd46@cornell.edu As associate vice provost, Nishi Dhupa works closely with the vice provost, the International Council, and the directors of Global Cornell's units to align infrastructure to support the global activities of faculty and students, increase coordination of internationalization efforts across campus, and improve student access to global experiences by addressing financial and informational barriers. Dhupa also serves as executive director of the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies. She holds a bachelor of veterinary medicine degree from the University of Nairobi and is a diplomate of the American Colleges of Veterinary Internal Medicine and Veterinary Emergency and Critical Care. Gustavo A. Flores-Macías, Associate Vice Provost for International Affairs gaf44@cornell.edu Gustavo Flores-Macías works with the Office of Global Learning and campus partners to expand education abroad opportunities and enrich international students' experiences at Cornell. As an associate professor in the Department of Government, Flores-Macías's research and teaching interests include a variety of topics related to political and economic development, with is current research focusing on two main areas: the politics of economic reform, and taxation and state capacity. He received his PhD in political science from Georgetown University and a master's in public policy from Duke University, where he was a Fulbright scholar. Before joining the Government Department he was a fellow at Cornell’s Polson Institute for Global Development between 2008 and 2010. He previously served as Director of Public Affairs in Mexico’s Consumer Protection Agency. Elise Gold, Director of Marketing and Communications ebg44@cornell.edu As the director for marketing and communication, Elise Gold leads strategic planning and communication efforts to connect the organization’s mission, goals, and priorities to further the international mission of Cornell. Gold came to Cornell in 2008. As director of communications for the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning she led a redesign of the college website and biannual magazine. Before coming to Cornell, she worked for Gannett, Inc. at the Ithaca Journal, moving from print to online as the internet became part of newspaper culture. Gold started her professional career as a fourth-grade public school teacher in Brooklyn, New York. Gold holds a BA in studio art and political science from Binghamton University. Ying Hua, Director, Cornell China Center yh294@cornell.edu As director of the Cornell China Center, Ying Hua works to develop and execute the university’s China strategy and provide academic and programmatic direction for the center in Beijing. She chairs the China Center Faculty Advisory Committee and works closely with the Cornell China Advisory Board. Hua is an associate professor in the Department of Human Centered Design and a faculty member of the graduate fields of design and environmental analysis and real estate. She is a faculty fellow of the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability and the Cornell Institute for Healthy Futures, a core faculty member of the Cornell East Asia Program of the Einaudi Center, and co-director of Cornell’s International Workplace Studies Program. She is also a member of China's Green Building Council. Hua holds a PhD in building performance and diagnostics from Carnegie Mellon University and an MEng in building science and technology and a BArch, both from Zhejiang University, China. Brandon Lanners, Executive Director, Office of Global Learning bl738@cornell.edu As executive director for the Office of Global Learning, Brandon Lanners provides leadership and vision for the university in the areas of Education Abroad and International Services. He leads a staff of 25, helping manage operational planning and fiscal oversight. He serves as the face of Global Learning on campus, advancing best practices from the fields of education abroad, immigration services, compliance, and risk management. He also enhances study abroad program review and development, advising and support services for international students and scholars, and cross-cultural training for faculty, staff, and students. And he liaises with outside collaborators and policymakers. Lanners holds an EdM in higher education policy, a BS in psychology, and a BA in political science, all from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Christine Potter, Associate Vice Provost and Executive Director of Global Operations and Strategy cmp58@cornell.edu As associate vice provost, Potter provides strategic leadership and plans new initiatives to enhance Cornell's global outlook and engagement. In her role as executive director of Global Operations, Potter manages Cornell's distinctive agenda to strengthen institutional expertise and support for engaging in research, education, and other activities abroad. Her team provides professional advisory services and project management for complex matters involving international collaborations/partnerships, global human resources, international financial transactions, import/export controls, IT and data security, legal/regulatory compliance, international health and safety preparation and incident response, risk management, and foreign tax compliance. She is active on university-wide planning/working groups and committees, collaborating closely with stakeholders across campus and beyond. She also holds responsibility for policies, governance, personnel, compliance, budgets and finance matters, and the facilities of Cornell's foreign legal entities and/or centers in China and India. Potter holds MBA degrees from Cornell and Queen's University, an MPS in International Development from Cornell, and a BA in communication and media studies from Metropolitan State University of Denver. Rachel Beatty Riedl, Director, Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies rbeattyriedl@cornell.edu Rachel Beatty Riedl is the Einaudi Center's director and John S. Knight Professor of International Studies and professor in the Department of Government. Riedl envisions the Einaudi Center as a home for imagining and implementing global research. Her research interests include institutional development in new democracies, local governance and decentralization, and authoritarian regime legacies, with a regional focus on sub-Saharan Africa. Her latest book, From Pews to Politics: Religious Sermons and Political Participation in Africa (2019), was coauthored with Gwyneth McClendon. Authoritarian Origins of Democratic Party Systems in Africa (2014), won the African Politics Best Book award. Riedl also cohosts the Ufahamu Africa podcast about life and politics on the African continent. Most recently, Riedl was a fellow at the Nantes Institute for Advanced Study and a Fulbright scholar. Previously, she was director of the Program of African Studies and an associate professor in the Department of Political Science at Northwestern University. She received her PhD from Princeton University. Christian Shaffmaster, Director of Development chs86@cornell.edu As the director of development, Christian Shaffmaster works with the vice provost to identify giving priorities that advance the organization’s mission and goals and develop fundraising strategies that advance those priorities and the international mission of Cornell. Shaffmaster also works closely with alumni affairs and development colleagues across the university to establish and promote fundraising priorities around international teaching, and research and engagement. He collaborates with academic leaders in schools, colleges, and centers to develop, support, and implement plans that support the university’s international activities. Before joining OVPIA, Shaffmaster worked for the Office of Alumni Affairs and Development at Cornell Law School for 12 years. Most recently as the associate director and before that as the associate director of their Annual Fund. Shaffmaster holds an MA from Marywood University and a BA from Lycoming College. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance