Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home International SOS (ISOS) What is International SOS (ISOS)? What is International SOS (ISOS)? Columbia University has adopted International SOS (ISOS) as the 24/7 emergency assistance provider for individuals on Columbia Travel. Their worldwide helpdesks can assist with urgent medical issues, security and logistical questions, medical advice, or other concerns and situations that may arise. ISOS can be contacted by phone, online, or using the ISOS app (available in your mobile phone's app store). You can view the ISOS Assistance App 6.0 on the ISOS website. The University uses the ISOS Global Risk Ratings to fulfill the International Travel Planning Policy (ITPP) pre-departure travel requirements, such as pre-travel itinerary review and trip registration. Expand all Collapse all ISOS Itinerary Review The Global Risk Ratings are intended to provide travelers with safety, security, and health advice for their destination(s). Travelers should visit the ISOS Global Risk Ratings to determine the highest level of risk of their proposed location. (Location can refer to country, city, or region.) University policy requires students traveling to locations defined as Medium, High, and Extreme Risk to have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS. While this is required for Students, Officers or Administration and Support Staff, it is highly recommended for faculty. Trip Registration Per the current International Travel Restrictions, registration in ISOS MyTrips is required for all travelers on CU-related travel or while conducting any CU-related international activities. This registration provides the university with the traveler’s trip details and allows our office to assist in an emergency. ISOS Training Hub International SOS offers a training hub for those preparing to go abroad. Courses range in topics such as Food and Water Safety, Hotel Safety, Petty Crime, and more. To visit the ISOS Training Hub, please click here. Upon course completion, users have the option of printing a completion certificate. Travel Assistance - Resources and Services Columbia University's agreement with ISOS provides a number of resources and services, including online, medical, travel, security and enhanced emotional support. Online Resources Communications portal Emailed health, safety, and security reports Emergency records Country briefs Global Risk Ratings Medical Assistance Arrangements and Payment for medical evacuations and repatriations Emergency & routine medical advice Travel Health Information Medical & Dental referrals Out-patient case management Dispatch of Medication & Medical Supplies* Medical Monitoring Guarantee of Medical Expenses* Access to International SOS Clinics* *ISOS is NOT health insurance. Travel Assistance Emergency message transmission Emergency translation & interpreter services Lost document advice & assistance Emergency cash advance* Post-departure trip interruption reimbursement (up to $2,000) Trip delay/quarantine benefit (up to $2000/ $200 per day) Security Assistance Arrangements and payment of evacuations 24 hour access to SOS Security Specialists Real time security and safety information Access to Security Crisis Center Enhanced Emotional Support Connect with counseling services through ISOS Chat capabilities in place of a phone call Up to 5 sessions per person, per trip via telephone, teleconference or in-person (depending on location) Assistance with locating a provider who speaks the traveler's preferred language and who has a high standard of care Can connect the traveler with Columbia's Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), or CUIMC Student Health Service's Mental Health Services (MHS), for continuity of care. You can review additional, detailed information regarding ISOS service benefits on the ISOS Membership E-Guide. For more information, visit the Columbia ISOS Global Assistance Program page. ISOS Mobile App Travelers are encouraged to consider downloading the ISOS Assistance app (available on Apple, Android, and Windows platforms) on their smartphone prior to their departure using the Columbia membership ID 11BSGC000064. Doing so will sign the traveler up to receive health, safety, and security alerts based upon location, give them the ability to speak with ISOS at the touch of a button (which provides medical assistance and coordination for University-related travel abroad, including repatriations/evacuations), and allow the University to better assist you in the event of an emergency while on Columbia-related international travel. Non-Columbia Travel? Faculty and Staff Columbia faculty and staff have a few different options for Emergency Travel Assistance: For Columbia Travel, all faculty and staff should use ISOS. For Personal Travel, most faculty and staff should use Cigna Secure Travel. If you are a J-1 Visa holder however, you should use United Healthcare Global. Note that for eligible staff, Cigna Secure Travel is available to benefits-eligible employees who are covered under Columbia University’s Term Life Insurance through Cigna. If the employee's life insurance coverage is provided by their union, these benefits do not apply. Please visit the Human Resources page regarding Officers - Emergency Travel Assistance to learn more. For more information, visit the Columbia ISOS Global Assistance Program page. If you need an ISOS wallet card, please send an email with your mailing address to [email protected] or you can download one here. [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close