Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Perry World House Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Perry World House About Experts Research Events Ideas Faculty Students Grants Support Drawer Menu Perry World House About Explore Back to main menu Announcements Join Our Mailing List Our Building Our Events Experts Explore Back to main menu Leadership Distinguished Global Leaders In-Residence Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Explore Back to main menu About Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Meet Our Past Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Apply to Become or Nominate a Visiting Fellow or Visiting Scholar Faculty Affiliates Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Explore Back to main menu About Postdoctoral Fellows Explore Back to main menu Borders and Boundaries Postdoctoral Fellowships Global Innovation Program Postdoctoral Fellowships Penn Identity & Conflict Lab Postdoctoral Fellowship Meet Our Former Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Research Explore Back to main menu The Future of the Global Order: Power, Technology, and Governance Explore Back to main menu Affiliated Faculty and Staff Past Global Order Workshops and Colloquia Explore Back to main menu How to See the Future: Forecasting and Global Policy Explore Back to main menu 2021 Global Order Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces The New Space Age: Beyond Global Order The UN at 75: Coronavirus and Competition Explore Back to main menu 2020 Global Order Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces A Strategic Roadmap for Reentry 2021 and Beyond Transatlantic Disruption: Challenges and Opportunities Emerging Technologies and Global Politics Project Explore Back to main menu Keeping Score: A New Approach to Geopolitical Forecasting Global Shifts: Urbanization, Migration, and Climate Change Explore Back to main menu Affiliated Faculty and Staff Past Global Shifts Workshops and Colloquia Explore Back to main menu Islands on the Climate Front Line: Risk and Resilience: April 20-21, 2022 Locked Down: Global Mobility and COVID-19: March 23-24 and 26, 2021 Explore Back to main menu 2021 Global Shifts Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces Seeking Refuge in the Climate Emergency: September 14-16, 2020 Explore Back to main menu 2020 Global Shifts Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces Climate Change and Geopolitics: June 24, 2021 The Borders and Boundaries Project Explore Back to main menu Borders and Boundaries Project Personnel Call for Papers: 2022 Conference on International Borders in a Globalizing World The Great Powers and Urbanization Project (GPUP) Explore Back to main menu Cities, Geopolitics, and the International Legal Order Report and Thought Pieces Seminar Series Explore Back to main menu Past Seminar Series Publications Events Explore Back to main menu Host an Event at Perry World House Explore Back to main menu Our Spaces Event Policies Event Inventory Event FAQs Livestream Events The World Today Global Lens Ideas Explore Back to main menu Analysis Announcements Media IO COVID-19 Online Supplemental Issue Penn on the World after COVID-19 Penn Pandemic Diary 'The Global Cable' Podcast Publications Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Affiliates Explore Back to main menu Apply to Become a Faculty Affiliate Faculty Fellows Explore Back to main menu Meet Our Faculty Fellows Lightning Scholars Students Explore Back to main menu Global Career Week 2021 World House Student Fellows Explore Back to main menu Meet our World House Student Fellows Explore Back to main menu Past World House Student Fellows World House Student Fellows Policy Projects World House Student Fellows Summer Awards Graduate Associates Explore Back to main menu Meet Our Graduate Associates Explore Back to main menu Past Graduate Associates Graduate Associates Policy Papers House Committee Undergraduate Essay Prize Summer Internship Program Attend an Event Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants International Visitors Grant Program Perry World House-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Perry World House Welcomes 2022-23 Class of Postdoctoral Fellows Basic Page Sidebar Menu Perry World House About Explore Back to main menu Announcements Join Our Mailing List Our Building Our Events Experts Explore Back to main menu Leadership Distinguished Global Leaders In-Residence Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Explore Back to main menu About Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Meet Our Past Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Apply to Become or Nominate a Visiting Fellow or Visiting Scholar Faculty Affiliates Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Explore Back to main menu About Postdoctoral Fellows Explore Back to main menu Borders and Boundaries Postdoctoral Fellowships Global Innovation Program Postdoctoral Fellowships Penn Identity & Conflict Lab Postdoctoral Fellowship Meet Our Former Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Research Explore Back to main menu The Future of the Global Order: Power, Technology, and Governance Explore Back to main menu Affiliated Faculty and Staff Past Global Order Workshops and Colloquia Explore Back to main menu How to See the Future: Forecasting and Global Policy Explore Back to main menu 2021 Global Order Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces The New Space Age: Beyond Global Order The UN at 75: Coronavirus and Competition Explore Back to main menu 2020 Global Order Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces A Strategic Roadmap for Reentry 2021 and Beyond Transatlantic Disruption: Challenges and Opportunities Emerging Technologies and Global Politics Project Explore Back to main menu Keeping Score: A New Approach to Geopolitical Forecasting Global Shifts: Urbanization, Migration, and Climate Change Explore Back to main menu Affiliated Faculty and Staff Past Global Shifts Workshops and Colloquia Explore Back to main menu Islands on the Climate Front Line: Risk and Resilience: April 20-21, 2022 Locked Down: Global Mobility and COVID-19: March 23-24 and 26, 2021 Explore Back to main menu 2021 Global Shifts Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces Seeking Refuge in the Climate Emergency: September 14-16, 2020 Explore Back to main menu 2020 Global Shifts Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces Climate Change and Geopolitics: June 24, 2021 The Borders and Boundaries Project Explore Back to main menu Borders and Boundaries Project Personnel Call for Papers: 2022 Conference on International Borders in a Globalizing World The Great Powers and Urbanization Project (GPUP) Explore Back to main menu Cities, Geopolitics, and the International Legal Order Report and Thought Pieces Seminar Series Explore Back to main menu Past Seminar Series Publications Events Explore Back to main menu Host an Event at Perry World House Explore Back to main menu Our Spaces Event Policies Event Inventory Event FAQs Livestream Events The World Today Global Lens Ideas Explore Back to main menu Analysis Announcements Media IO COVID-19 Online Supplemental Issue Penn on the World after COVID-19 Penn Pandemic Diary 'The Global Cable' Podcast Publications Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Affiliates Explore Back to main menu Apply to Become a Faculty Affiliate Faculty Fellows Explore Back to main menu Meet Our Faculty Fellows Lightning Scholars Students Explore Back to main menu Global Career Week 2021 World House Student Fellows Explore Back to main menu Meet our World House Student Fellows Explore Back to main menu Past World House Student Fellows World House Student Fellows Policy Projects World House Student Fellows Summer Awards Graduate Associates Explore Back to main menu Meet Our Graduate Associates Explore Back to main menu Past Graduate Associates Graduate Associates Policy Papers House Committee Undergraduate Essay Prize Summer Internship Program Attend an Event Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants International Visitors Grant Program Perry World House-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize Support May 6, 2022 By Perry World House Perry World House, the University of Pennsylvania’s hub for global affairs, has announced its Postdoctoral Fellows for the 2022-23 academic year. Selected for their academic excellence and commitment to exploring global policy-relevant connections in their scholarship, the Postdoctoral Fellows will spend a year pursuing their own academic research while supporting Perry World House’s overall mission. “After a successful return to in-person programming, we are looking forward to welcoming this outstanding cohort of Postdoctoral Fellows to Penn’s campus,” said LaShawn R. Jefferson, Senior Executive Director of Perry World House. “As Perry World House begins to explore a range of exciting new program areas in the coming academic year, particularly in human rights and global justice, our Postdoctoral Fellows continue to be integral to our commitment to leveraging academic research to shape global policy solutions.” The 2022-23 Perry World House Postdoctoral Fellows are (an asterisk indicates a returning fellow): Garrett M. Albistegui Adler is an interdisciplinary environmental social scientist focused on political and social impacts of climate change and variability, especially links between climatic conditions and violent human conflict. Prior to his graduate work on climate impacts, Albistegui Adler was a public school science teacher in the South Bronx. He holds Master’s degrees in Political Science, Climate and Society, and Science Teaching from Stanford University, Columbia University, and the City College of New York, respectively, and a Bachelor’s in International Relations from Brown University. Abigestui Adler will receive his Ph.D. in Environment and Resources from Stanford University. Eilidh Beaton works on the political philosophy of migration, and her published work focuses on the scope of the right to refuge in international law, refugee rights to family reunion, and the impermissibility of national partiality during times of global crisis. Her current research prioritizes justice in internal displacement and the normative nature of contemporary immigration enforcement practices. Previously, Beaton was a Fellow in the Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method at the London School of Economics and Political Science and a Lecturer in Political Economy Education at King’s College London. She received her Ph.D. in Philosophy from the University of Pennsylvania and in August 2023 she will join the University of Aberdeen as a Lecturer in Philosophy. Joshua Byun researches the causes and consequences of strategic incoherence in military alliances. His new book project analyzes the dynamics between great powers and their allies. Some of Byun’s research has been published in outlets such as the American Political Science Review, Political Science Quarterly, the European Journal of International Security, and the Washington Quarterly. He is a Hans J. Morgenthau Fellow at the University of Notre Dame’s International Security Center and will receive his Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago. Prior to beginning his academic career, Byun served as the personal interpreter to South Korea’s Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Bailee Donahue* works with Beth Simmons, the Andrea Mitchell University Professor in Law, Political Science and Business Ethics, on Perry World House’s Borders and Boundaries Project, which examines how political life both affects and is affected by border security policies. Donahue’s research investigates the consequences of border security policies and border institutions on complex trade relationships between neighbor states. She received her Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In addition, Donahue holds an M.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a B.A. from Bryn Mawr College. Biz Herman will work with Beth Simmons on the Borders and Boundaries Project. Her research examines how experiencing violence in the context of conflict and forced migration shapes social cohesion and prospects for sustainable peace. Her research has been supported by the Fulbright U.S. Student Program, the UC Institute on Global Conflict & Cooperation, the Simpson Memorial Research Fellowship, the Malini Chowdhury Fellowship, and the Georg Eckert Institute. Herman received her B.A. from Tufts University and will receive her Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of California, Berkeley. She is currently a Visiting Scholar at The New School for Social Research’s Trauma and Global Mental Health Lab, and a Predoctoral Research Fellow with the Human Trafficking Vulnerability Lab. Junghyun Lim will work with Beth Simmons on the Borders and Boundaries Project. Her research examines the political consequences of international and internal migration. Her research has been accepted for publication in Comparative Political Studies, Electoral Studies, and Democratization. Lim was previously a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Niehaus Center for Globalization & Governance at Princeton University. She was awarded a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Pittsburgh. Johanna Rodehau-Noack’s doctoral dissertation traces the constitution of problems in international politics at the example of conflict prevention. In her next research project, Rodehau-Noack will examine the role of so-called intelligent technologies in conflict anticipation and prevention, focusing specifically on the underlying assumption inherent in forecasting models as well as the implications and ethics of technological optimism in theory and practice. Rodehau-Noack is an editor of Millennium: Journal of International Studies. She holds a B.A. and an M.A. in Political Science from the University of Vienna, Austria. She will receive her Ph.D. in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Political Science. Share 3803 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 T. 215-573-5730 F. 215-573-9371 Stay Connected with Updates from Perry World House Mailing list signup Accessibility statement for Perry World House Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy