Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing and Mumbai Webinar: Wildlife Trade and the Global Health Crisis Events Past Event Beijing and Mumbai Webinar: Wildlife Trade and the Global Health Crisis Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 17, 2020 9:00 PM - 10:30 PM Online There are a large number of zoonotic diseases that can be transmitted between animals and people through harmful micro-organisms. As human mortality and socio-economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic engulf the globe, there are overwhelming reasons to rethink wildlife trade markets that are widespread in multiple countries, including China and USA. Please join our global panel of experts as they discuss how we can think about protecting wildlife and curbing illegal wildlife trade. Time: 9:00-10:30 pm (Beijing) | 6:30-8:00 pm (India) | 9:00-10:30 am (New York) This webinar is jointly presented by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai, and Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi for the CGC network. Speakers Claudia Dreifus is an American journalist, educator, lecturer, and producer of the erstwhile weekly feature “Conversation with…” of the Science Section of The New York Times. Known for her interviews with leading figures in world politics and science, she is currently a regular interviewer of the New York Review of Books, the Daily. She is an adjunct professor at the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) of Columbia University. She is also an instructor of practice at Columbia's School of Professional Studies, where she trains scientists, including many conservation biologists, in journalism. Her class is called, "Writing About Global Science for the International Media." Professor Dreifus is the author of multiple books ---‘Scientific Conversations’, ‘Interview’ and ‘Higher Education?’ a few among them. Karen Qin XUE is the Director of Global Coordination with WWF China. With many years’ service with global fortune-500 companies, as well as being an entrepreneur in the internet industry, Karen joined an NGO with her passion and commercial experience in 2015. While with WildAid, Karen and the China team generated USD 200M pro bono value per year, by promoting the public awareness campaign 'When The Buying Stops, The Killing Can Too'. Karen is now leading the Ivory High Impact Initiative, which targets the closure of Asia’s ivory markets. Having worked both in the commercial sector and in NGOs, Karen believes the driving force of sustainability must be the joint efforts of governments, corporates, and NGOs. Dr. Abi Tamim Vanak is associated with the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE) as Senior Fellow (Associate Professor), and Convener of the Centre for Biodiversity and Conservation. He is also a Fellow of the DBT/Wellcome Trust Clinical and Public Program. His research areas include animal movement ecology, disease ecology, OneHealth, savanna ecosystems, invasive species and wildlife in human-dominated systems. Much of his research work focuses on the outcome of interactions between species at the interface of humans, domestic animals and wildlife in semi-arid savannas and agro-ecosystems. Under OneHealth systems and disease ecology, he studies dynamics of rabies transmission in multi-host systems and the role of small and medium mammals in the transmission dynamics of Kyasanur forest disease. Wendy Hapgood is the Founder and Director of Wild Tomorrow Fund, with offices in USA and Africa. She previously worked as a Director of Currency Sales for Barclays and Citibank, based in Japan, Singapore and New York for 10 years, and simultaneously spent much of her free time volunteering for wildlife organizations in Asia and America. Ms. Hapgood believes that biodiversity loss and climate change are two of the most critical issues facing our planet today. In 2015 she left the finance world to complete her Masters Degree in Sustainability Management at Columbia University's Earth Institute where she studied climate change science and policy, researched the intersection of poverty and rhino poaching, and studied new methods for financing the green economy. She now uses both her business knowledge and her environmental education to help protect our planet's biodiversity. Register (China): Click here Register (India, Kenya, and all other countries): Click here Reminders Webinar will be conducted in English. After you complete the registration form, you will receive the meeting ID and password through email. If you have any questions or would like to join our WeChat group, please scan the QR code below to add Beijing Center's WeChat assistant for more information. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close