Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Workshop: Environment, Design Arts, and Wood Events Past Event Beijing Workshop: Environment, Design Arts, and Wood Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 7, 2018 6:30 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On September 7, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, in collaboration with USDA Foreign Agricultural Service and American Hardwood Export Council, will host a workshop on “Environment, Design Arts, and Wood”. Invited experts and renowned American architects and interior designers will brief new concepts on environmental sustainability and green materials; share their design ideas that may enhance contemporary living environment in ways of wellness, comfort, elegance, sustainability; and exchange with their contemporary interior and wooden furniture design cases study. The program is also supported by American Institute of Architecture. Speakers Dr. Christine E. Bruckner Christine is an architect actively supporting best practice, sustainability and wellness in design. As a Director with M Moser Associates, she brings her experience with urban integration, architecture, adaptive revitalization and educational design excellence to guide development of our built environment at all scales. Her focus is working with client and community stakeholders to encourage deep dive investigation, coordination and sustainable best practice. A LEED AP, BREEAM AP and BEAM Professional, Christine is also an early adapter of both RESET and International WELL Building Institute certification systems and M Moser's first WELL AP. Emma Chang Emma Chang has been with Gensler for over 14 years. She worked with Gensler in the US as well as in China and has experience in commercial, residential, corporate, government, health, and technology design projects. She brings an excellent capability in designing a variety of large and complex projects. Emma has a knowledge and experience in master planning, architecture design, interior design, landscape, and graphic design. Now she is the Interior Design Director in Beijing Office, taking care of interior design projects and leading product design practice in Asia. Christopher Bielecki Christopher Bielecki is the Deputy Director of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural Service, Agricultural Trade Office in Beijing. He is responsible for directing agricultural marketing programs, developing strategies that promote U.S. agricultural exports to China, and providing expert policy guidance to senior U.S. government officials. Christopher has a masters and PhD from Texas A&M University, where he developed international agricultural research programs, conducted monitoring & evaluation research, and led capacity building programs in Guatemala, Ghana, Peru, and Ethiopia. His research interests focus on better understanding how climate change affect agricultural producer behavior and sustainability outcomes in emerging markets. Agenda 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Registration and Reception 6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Talk by Dr. Christopher Bielecki, Deputy Director of ATO Office, U.S. Embassy Beijing 7:00 p.m. - 7:10 p.m. Talk by AIA Representative 7:10 p.m. - 7:55 p.m. Talk by Dr. Christine Bruckner 7:55 p.m. - 8:25 p.m. Talk by Emma Chang 8:25 p.m. - 8:55 p.m. Q&A 8:55 p.m. Informal Discussion Special Notice The event will be conducted in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please leave us a message below or email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close