Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home How could we improve group learning and reflective practice in lesson preparation groups? Events Past Event How could we improve group learning and reflective practice in lesson preparation groups? Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 28, 2022 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM Online *By clicking "Register Here", you are deemed to consent to all conditions and terms of the Consent Note for Personal Information Processing, including the cross-border transfer of your personal information as described in Article II.3 of the consent note. If you do not agree to all the conditions and terms hereof, please do not click. Time: March 28, 2022, 8:00AM-9:30AM (New York) | 8:00PM-9:30PM (Beijing) Event language: English Effective lesson planning is essential to the process and quality of teaching and learning. Developing an effective lesson plan is not only about creating ideas and activities that make learning fun, but also about understanding how to thread the individual learning sections into a line and fit them into the overarching learning objectives. Columbia Global Centers | Beijing is pleased to invite you for an insightful discussion with Professor Victoria Marsick, Dr. Cindy Lin, Professor Yan Hu, and Dao Liu, as they talk about strategies for effective lesson preparation. During the event, Dr. Cindy Lin will present her recent findings on how the group leaders of lesson preparation groups facilitate group learning and reflective practice in Chinese public high schools. Speakers Victoria J. Marsick is a professor of Adult and Organizational Learning in the Department of Organization & Leadership, Teachers College, Columbia University, where she has made significant contributions to the field of adult learning in the theory and practice of human resource and organizational development. Since the publication of her first book, Learning in the Workplace, she has brought a rich understanding of the nature of the individual, team, and organizational learning to scholars and practitioners of adult and continuing education. Professor Marsick has held numerous leadership positions at Teachers College, serving as head of the innovative Adult Education Guided Independent Study (AEGIS) program at Teachers College, as well as the department chair. She was a leading force in securing the funding for and creating the concept of, the J.M. Huber Institute for Learning in Organizations, and she serves as co-director of the Institute. She also hosts the Workplace Learning Institute at Teachers College for human resource and organization developers. Cindy Lin earned her doctorate in Adult Learning and Leadership at Teachers College, Columbia University. Her dissertation research, titled how the group leaders of lesson preparation groups facilitate group learning and reflective practice in Chinese public high schools, focused on the professional learning community in Chinese public schools. She sought to inform the practice of lesson preparation groups to improve facilitating reflective practice through lesson preparation group meetings in Chinese public high schools. Her dissertation was awarded the Dean’s Grant for Student Research at Teachers College. Dr. Lin has 15 years of experience in international education and the cultural exchange field, nine years of experience in designing and delivering training programs for principals, teachers, and administrators in China, and 5 years of experience in organizational development initiatives. She has given lectures to over 7000 students in China on the topics of study skills, time management, emotional management, and other leadership-related topics. She is also co-teaching a management and leadership course at Teachers College. She is currently the Director of Organization Development and Product Development at Cogita Education Initiatives. Yan Hu, who received her Ph.D. degree in Education from Beijing Normal University, is currently a professor and doctoral supervisor of the Institute of Teacher Education, Beijing Normal University. Professor Hu mainly focuses on teacher and teacher education history, teacher education policy, teacher professional development research. Previously, she served as the director of the Editorial Departments of Chinese Teachers and Teacher Education Research. Professor Hu chaired "Research on the Professionalization Process of Teachers in Modern and Contemporary Chinese Primary and Secondary Schools from the Perspective of Political Sociology", "Research on the Development History of China's Primary and Middle School Teaching Research Group"，"Research on the history of private substitute teachers from the perspective of science and technology" and many other national, provincial, and ministerial topics. She published many articles in CSSCI, including Educational Research, Teacher Education Research, Xinhua Digest etc. Liu Dao is a senior teacher in geography at Shenzhen Futian Middle School. She is currently a Ph. D. candidate in the School of Teacher Education at Central China Normal University and Deputy Director of the Teacher Development Center at Futian Middle School. Previously, she served as an adjunct teaching and research fellow in Geography at Shenzhen Educational Science Institute, a core member of the geography evaluation and exam team for senior high schools in Shenzhen, a member of Guangdong exam experts. She has won honorary titles of the eighth national excellent middle school Geography educator, Guangdong excellent middle school geography teacher, Shenzhen backbone teacher, among others. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close