Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About Global Cornell Support Global Cornell's Mission Support Global Cornell's Mission Global Cornell is a campus ethos that promotes a global perspective in our identity, thinking, and actions at home and abroad. Your gift will support Cornell students and faculty through the creation of exciting educational experiences that lead to innovative solutions for the world's most pressing challenges. Give to Global Cornell and turn global thinking into global action. Donate today. Making a Difference Whether you chose to donate to the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies or one of its eight regional and thematic programs, Cornell China Center, Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge, study abroad experiences, or international students on campus—or all of these initiatives with a gift to Cornell Fund for International Programs—your gift matters. Your generosity helps: Educate the next generation of global citizens. Advance research on global issues. Foster valuable collaborations across Cornell and the world. Uphold Cornell as a world leader in international studies. The Campaign for Cornell University In 1865 Ezra Cornell wanted "to do the greatest good" with his resources, and he decided that founding a university was the most powerful way to do it. That commitment grew into a global institution whose founding principle of "... any person ... any study" revolutionized higher education. In 2021, Cornellians remain united by the drive to make Cornell and the world better for future generations. Learn more about Cornell's To Do the Greatest Good campaign and support Global Cornell. How donors are shaping our world’s future today: Virtual Interns Work for Climate Resilience From quantifying climate vulnerability in Haiti to documenting the ecological calendars of Indigenous and rural communities, Einaudi's summer interns partnered with faculty to reduce climate impacts around the world. Migration Not Seen as Solution by Those in Flood Zones Through a Migrations initiative grant, Professor Lindy Williams explores ties to community that motivate most people to stay in their homes despite the risks of frequent, severe floods in coastal regions of the Philippines. Talk About Your Gift Do you have giving questions? For additional information on how you can support the important work of Global Cornell, please contact Christian Shaffmaster, director of development for International Affairs, by email or phone at +1-607-255-3461. Together, we can fulfill Cornell's radical vision to engage with and transform the world. Donate Now Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance