Skip to main content Global Education Office My Experiential Ed: Duke Log-in Non-Duke Log-in Programs PROGRAMS OVERVIEW DUKE-IN PROGRAMS DUKE-APPROVED PROGRAMS PETITION A PROGRAM EXCHANGES Academics ACADEMICS OVERVIEW TYPES OF CREDIT COURSE APPROVAL PROCESS RECONCILE TRANSFER CREDIT COURSE LOAD STUDY AWAY AGREEMENT INTERNSHIPS & RESEARCH Finances FINANCES OVERVIEW FINANCIAL AID SCHOLARSHIPS STUDY ABROAD FEE Withdrawal & Cancellation STUDENT EXPERIENCE Plan & Prepare Student Stories Identity & Diversity Health, Safety & Security Parents & Families SUBMIT A CONCERN Advising ADVISING OVERVIEW Advising Preparation ASK A STUDENT Visiting International Students VIS OVERVIEW ADMISSIONS GLOBAL PARTNERS CREDITS & GRADES FINANCES About ABOUT CONTACT US FORMS POLICIES GLOBAL ED STUDENT COMMITTEE NEW PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT ASSESSMENT EVENTS Apply My Experiential Ed:Duke Log-in Non-Duke Log-in Visiting International Student Program Home VIS Overview Program Alert The Duke Visiting International program will be accepting applications for Fall/Academic Year 2022 beginning in late fall 2021. Please review Duke's COVID-19 response page https://keeplearning.duke.edu/ for student-focused updates involving protocols and changes related to COVID. VIS OVERVIEW Study at Duke University for a Semester or a Year as a Non-Degree Student The Visiting International Student (VIS) Program is an opportunity for foreign-national students enrolled at universities outside the U.S. to study at Duke University for a fall semester or a full academic year. The program is designed for undergraduate students, usually in their second or third year of studies, who have a thorough knowledge of the English language. Slideshow: Images of Duke's Scenic Campus TERM Students admitted to the Visiting International Student (VIS) Program may study at Duke for a period of one fall semester or one academic year (two semesters at four months each), but cannot extend the term or transfer into the four-year degree program at Duke. ELIGIBILITY Applicants should be full-time students of a university or college based outside the U.S. View Admissions Requirements For Duke Kunshan University students interested in studying at Duke, please contact the Duke Kunshan University Global Education Office dku-globaledu@dukekunshan.edu.cn. ACADEMICS Courses Courses VIS participants join regular Duke University undergraduates in the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences or Pratt College of Engineering of Duke University as non-degree students. While at Duke, Visiting International Students are treated as full-time Duke students, taking classes and examinations as home students do. Visiting International Students may take up to four academic courses, plus one to two non-academic courses (e.g. physical education or house course) per semester. VIS participants are limited to undergraduate courses and may not take classes in Duke's graduate level professional schools such as Fuqua School of Business, the Law School, the Medical School, etc. Students will only be able to enroll in university courses taught on the Duke campus in Durham, North Carolina, during the academic year. More on Credits & Grades WHY DUKE UNIVERSITY? Duke University is the fifth largest research university in the United States in research funding. Duke embraces openness in the pursuit of knowledge and welcomes intellectually restless students who use their talents to put ideas to the test. We view education not only as a gateway to personal development, but also as a pathway for improving society. At the core of our academic programs are our globally-recognized faculty surrounded by an environment of visiting artists, distinguished lecturers, and wide-ranging support services designed to assist your academic pursuits. Duke Virtual Tour Explore key university buildings and hear from Duke students about life on campus in this virtual tour with 360-degree photos and videos. Take the Virtual Tour Undergraduate Experience From academics to student activities, from research opportunities to campus support services, there's a lot to discover about what life is like as a Duke undergraduate student. Learn More VIS Students Pose for Photos on Abele Quad VIS student meeting Nobel prize winner Mohammed Yunus Duke’s remarkable reputation brought many intellectuals and successful people to campus, and gave me the chance to talk to people I didn't even dream of meeting.” Maja Islam University of Zagreb, Croatia HOUSING & MEALS Housing Students admitted to the Undergraduate Visiting International Student Program or as an undergraduate exchange student will be housed on West Campus in double rooms, or suites. Housing will be arranged by university administrators based on preferences indicated by the student once accepted. Whenever possible, VIS students will be assigned roommates who are not VIS program participants. This gives VIS students a chance to meet local Duke students and better connect to the campus culture. Housing sign-up: Admitted Visiting International Students will be sent special instructions on how to sign up for university assignments and early move-in. Please do not attempt to sign up for university housing outside of the specific VIS instructions. Meals Plans Students in university housing are required to purchase meal plans. Visit dining.duke.edu for more information. FINANCES Overall expenses will vary and depend somewhat upon a student's individual needs, but all VIS students pay standard Duke tuition and fees. Review VIS Program Costs VISAS Student Visas Student Visas Duke University requires applicants to the Visiting International Student Program to complete a preliminary visa application. The Duke Global Education Office for Undergraduates will facilitate access to Duke's visa application for qualified applicants. Once a student is accepted and committed to Duke's Undergraduate Visiting International Student Program, Duke's Visa Services Office will provide the student with proper documentation to obtain a student visa for study at Duke. To obtain a visa for study in the United States, a foreign national must furnish their country's United States consulate with proof of their ability to meet educational expenses. The foreign national should not plan to work in the United States since one's ability to pay must be based upon resources available at the time of application. A certificate of eligibility (DS-2019) for a visa application will be issued only to foreign nationals who have been accepted, paid reservation fees, and provided sufficient financial documentation. Currently, VIS can only obtain the J-1 visa from Duke. CONTACT INFORMATION The VIS program is fully administered by Duke University's Global Education Office for Undergraduates (GEO), including the application and admissions process. For questions about admissions, finances, housing, logistics, etc., please contact Valerie Cullen, VIS Program Coordinator. For questions related to academics, please contact the VIS Program Academic Dean. Valerie Cullen GEO Academic & Enrollment Services Manager More Info Liguo Zhang, Ph.D. VIS Program Academic Dean More Info APPLY Review Admissions Requirements You do not need to apply through the Duke Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Apply Now VIS Overview Admissions Global Partners Credits & Grades Finances VIS Student Goes on to Win Rhodes Scholarship I wouldn't be here today without the intellectually inspiring environment I've shared with my fellow students, friends, and teachers at the (Duke) political science department.” –Timuro Ohloff Freie Universität Berlin, Germany Read Article Apply to the VIS Program Applications are due February 1. For students at Global Partner institutions, applications are due March 1, or by arrangement. See Global Partners if you are unsure about the status of your home university. Apply Now Global Education Office for Undergraduates © 2021 Duke University Duke Global Education Office for Undergraduates Smith Warehouse Bay 6, 2nd Floor 114 S. Buchanan Blvd. Duke Box 90057 Durham, NC 27708-0057 USA Email: globaled@duke.edu Phone: 919.684.2174 Fax: 919.684.3083 Contact Us EMERGENCY Forms Policies Academic Advisors Non-Duke Students Privacy Statement Student Grievance Process