Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Mentoring Entrepreneurs: An Interview with Professor Ioannis Kymissis Mumbai Mentoring Entrepreneurs: An Interview with Professor Ioannis Kymissis October 28, 2021 Innovation can help address changing market needs, solve complex environmental challenges, and build social equity. A strong believer in innovation, Ioannis Kymissis, Professor and Chair of Columbia Engineering’s Department of Electrical Engineering, has filed numerous patents and supported multiple startups throughout his career. He has been a mentor to Urban Works companies from India and the US since 2018. During online mentoring sessions and in-person visits to India, he has coached entrepreneurs on topics including the Internet of Things (IoT) and sensors, sales and customer relationships, and the basics of intellectual property. In an interview with the Center, he speaks about innovation, startups, and Urban Works. How did your journey with Urban Works begin? What has been the biggest takeaway? IK: Having participated in an I-Corps program several years ago, I jumped at the opportunity of becoming a part of Urban Works. Also, it was great to collaborate with the Global Center in Mumbai. I remember the first cohort where Columbia University students had the chance to build a product for the Indian market and it was satisfying to see them learning a lot during this process. The student teams from Columbia and the more advanced Indian teams mutually benefited from their interactions. What has been your involvement in the entrepreneurship ecosystem? IK: Perhaps the most significant beyond Urban Works has been my engagement with the NSF I-CORPS program, which provides a range of resources and programming for new entrepreneurs looking to transition technology from the university to commercial application. We are very fortunate that Columbia is a partner for the NYCRIN, which is the New York City Regional Innovation Node, and I am now the Columbia lead for that partnership. I’m also an advisor to a number of accelerators/incubators (such as the NewLab) and co-direct Columbia’s Makerspace and find that those informal programs can often reach especially new entrepreneurs that are unsure where to get started. What do you think of the Indian startup ecosystem and how does it compare to the US? IK: In the US, there are a lot of accelerators readily investing small to moderate sums of money in young startups, whereas that wasn’t the case in India until a few years ago. Today, Indian entrepreneurs feel confident of creating independent startups where they can work full-time. This is because of an increased number of structured programs to support them. With tech giants Google and Microsoft, among others, supporting innovations, we now have companies starting in parallel in the US and in India. What is the role of patents and IP in general as necessary processes in furthering innovation? IK: While there are some areas in which it’s possible to use first mover advantages to start a business, patents are especially important in concepts relating to the physical sciences. For a small business, patents are usually the only protection against a large company applying R&D resources to overcoming any lead that a small company might have in launching a new technology. Even if a small company has the best idea in the world, investors are reluctant to get involved unless there is some protection against loss of the business following development of the technology and market, and for many cases patents are the only protection of this type available. Where do you see the urban safety and sustainability sector headed in the near future? IK: Water is a very precious resource, especially in densely populated regions and therefore we will continue to require solutions that solve this issue. We had Agua in the previous cohort, which deals in optimizing water supply to ensure equitable access. The other sector of importance is transportation. Because of its informal nature in India, monetization is difficult. We saw one of our alumni companies, ValetEZ, attempt to solve the problem of parking and traffic management in crowded metropolises. What do you think of the Urban Works model and how can it evolve? IK: It is really unique – it brings together specific strengths such as mentorship from Columbia University, the convening power of the Mumbai Center, and the ability to spin off businesses for the Indian market. Student and alumni teams can fundraise in the US and deploy in India. One way the model can evolve is to venture ahead in other parts of India beyond just the three cities of Delhi, Mumbai, and Bengaluru. Finally, what is the one piece of advice you would give to a tech entrepreneur? IK: I have seen a lot of entrepreneurs, especially students; hesitate to get started on an idea because they wait for the perfect set of conditions. I like to tell them – don’t wait for perfection! Start imperfectly, get course corrected by the market, and if you do fail, you can look for alternatives quickly. Urban Works is one such program that allows entrepreneurs to test their ideas in the real world by giving money and mentorship. At one of our previous startups – Innerhour – the founders showed courage in leaving their high-paying jobs to take a risk that was ultimately rewarded, and I can say that Urban Works put them on a strong growth path. Tags Mumbai Research Global Themes: Business and Entrepreneurship news Urban Works Innovation Challenge News News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close