Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Alumni Conversations: GSAPP Collective for Beirut Events Past Event Alumni Conversations: GSAPP Collective for Beirut Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 24, 2021 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Wednesday, March 24 12:00 pm New York | 6:00 pm Amman Register here This event is organized by the GSAPP Collective for Beirut and co-presented by Columbia GSAPP and Columbia Global Centers | Amman. As part of the GSAPP Collective for Beirut’s mission, this conversation brings together members of the Collective — Joanne Hayek (‘12 MSAAD), Mayssa Jallad ('17 MSHP), and Salim Kadi ('06 MSAAD) in conversation with Marylynn Pauline Antaki (‘19 MS.AAD) and Roula Salamoun (‘11 MS.AAD), introduced by Dean Amale Andraos — to discuss how they have each sought to engage with current crises in Lebanon through their diverse initiatives. The conversation will address the importance of data usage, grassroots movements, and the actual involvement on the ground during such events. The GSAPP Alumni Conversations series is proudly sponsored by the GSAPP Alumni Board. Free and open to the public. Virtual events hosted on Zoom Webinar do not require an account to attend, advanced registrations are encouraged. GSAPP is committed to providing universal access to all of our virtual events. Please contact Lyla Catellier via email at [email protected] to request accommodations. Advance notice is necessary to arrange for some accessibility needs. GSAPP Collective for Beirut is an interdisciplinary student and alumni organization dedicated to the promotion, discussion, and reflection of contemporary issues in the middle east, and Lebanon specifically. It was founded organically in 2020, in the aftermath of the Beirut blast by a group of like-minded students and alumni who studied asynchronously at Columbia University. They are currently based in Beirut and abroad (New York, London, Amsterdam, Toronto). For more information contact the Collective. Speakers: Joanne Hayek is an architect, designer, and coder currently based between Beirut and Dubai. Her work focuses on cross-disciplinary research for the design of sustainable futures. Her practice spans across scales and sectors through a variety of projects that combine social entrepreneurship and academic research. Joanne is the co-founder of sustainable fashion brand Vanina, founder of design lab An Open Studio, co-founder of digital platform Emerge Beirut, senior lecturer at the American University of Beirut (AUB) and adjunct faculty at the Dubai Institute of Design and Innovation (DIDI). She holds a Bachelor of Architecture from the American University of Beirut and a Master of Science in Advanced Architectural Design from Columbia University GSAPP, where she was awarded the Honor Award for Excellence in Design, the William Kinne Fellows Prize, and the Lucille Smyser Lowenfish Memorial Prize. Mayssa Jallad is an urban researcher and musician based in Beirut. After having graduated in Architecture from the American University of Beirut in 2013, she pursued a Master in Historic Preservation at Columbia University’s GSAPP, where she graduated in 2017. Mayssa worked in Historic Preservation for a year in New York, then returned to Beirut to pursue urban research and a new music project entitled Marjaa. She is now a researcher and Citizen Science coordinator with RELIEF Centre, an academic research collaboration between the UCL, AUB and LAU, which studies Prosperity in different neighborhoods in Lebanon. Salim Al Kadi is a graduate of the American University of Beirut and later completed his graduate studies at Columbia University. He has designed and completed multiple architectural projects including the celebrated MINA 1394 office building in central Beirut. He has been a senior lecturer at the American University of Beirut’s Department of Architecture and Graphic Design since 2011. Salim is a co-founder of Sigil, an art collective that has exhibited worldwide including the Venice Biennale, Marrakech Biennale, Oslo Architecture Triennale and Triennale di Milano. In 2016 Salim produced ‘K29 Keffiyeh’. It went on exhibit in New York’s Museum of Modern Art as part of the Items: Is Fashion Modern? exhibit. K29 Keffiyeh was later acquired by MoMA for its permanent collection. In January 2020, Salim offered publicly and open source for free download ’Beirut 001’, as the first digital 3D model of Beirut – “a preliminary tool to collectively re-imagine our city”. Since the Beirut Port Explosion on August 4th, it has been used by first-aid responders, students, and professionals alike, including ARUP, Forensic Architecture, and Rice University’s Spatial Lab. Salim currently lives in Beirut. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close