Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Oral Health and Healthcare during COVID-19: Lessons from India, Kenya and the United States (Part I) Events Past Event Oral Health and Healthcare during COVID-19: Lessons from India, Kenya and the United States (Part I) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 13, 2020 6:30 PM - 7:45 PM Online Time: 6:30 pm (Mumbai) | 4:00 pm (Nairobi) | 9:00 am (New York) Oral health services have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. With healthcare systems struggling to cope with the increasing number of patients impacted by the novel coronavirus worldwide, there has been a concomitant decline in the provision of elective and non-emergency oral and dental services. This has impacted not only access to and utilization of clinical dental services, but also community-based preventive programming, and the education of dentists and dentists-in-training. Join Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai and Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi for a two-part series, as we discuss lessons learned from India, Kenya and the United States in finding new and innovative ways to provide clinical, outreach and educational services during this pandemic. Part I: Provision of Oral Health Services during the COVID-19 Pandemic Introductory Remarks: ● Murugi Ndirangu, Director, Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi Moderator: ● Kavita P. Ahluwalia, Associate Professor and Program Director, Postdoctoral Program in Dental Public Health, Columbia University College of Dental Medicine (CDM) Speakers: ● Biana Roykh, Associate Professor and Senior Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, CDM ● Sharon Perelman, Assistant Professor and Chief Medical Informatics Officer, CDM ● Regina Mutave James, Professor and Dean, School of Dental Sciences, University of Nairobi, Kenya ● G. Rajesh, Professor and Head, Public Health Dentistry, Manipal College of Dental Sciences Expand all Collapse all Panel Bios Dr. Regina Mutave Dr. Mutave holds a Doctor of Philosophy in Community and Preventive Dentistry from the University of Nairobi. She is a registered specialist in public health through the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Board. Dr. Mutave collaborated with team members to plan and develop a report for the first Kenya National Oral Health Survey in 2015. Additionally, she is a member of a team that is responsible for the Tobacco Uptake Prevention and Cessation Program which trains dentists and Community Oral Health Officers to help cease tobacco use across the country. Dr. G. Rajesh Dr. Rajesh is a professor and the department head of Public Health Dentistry at Manipal College of Dental Sciences. In addition to his work at Manipal College, Dr. Rajesh is a National Editorial Board Member for the Journal of Indian Association of Public Health Dentistry and a Core Committee Member with the Indian Association of Public Health Dentistry. Further, Dr. Rajesh has established the Tobacco Cessation Centre to promote good oral health habits. Dr. Kavita P. Ahluwalia Dr. Ahluwalia received both a DDS and MPH from the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, and completed a residency in Dental Public Health from the Veterans Administration in Perry Point, Maryland. She is Board Certified by the American Board of Dental Public Health, and is the Director of the College’s Postdoctoral Program in Dental Public Health. Dr. Ahluwalia uses Community-Based Participatory (CBPR) methods to address oral health and healthcare disparities across the lifespan in the United States and East Africa; she has been funded by the National Institute on Aging, the National Cancer Institute, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Administration for Community Living, New York State Health Department and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to address the oral health needs of vulnerable populations. In addition to mentoring student research, Dr. Ahluwalia supervises the research of dental public health residents, directs the College’s course in Foundational Analytic Skills, and teaches Program Evaluation at the Mailman School of Public Health. Dr. Biana Roykh Dr. Biana Roykh received her DDS from the University of California San Francisco School of Dentistry. Upon graduation, she was inducted into the Omicron Kappa Upsilon National Honor Dental Society. She completed a General Practice Residency at the University of Nevada School of Medicine in Las Vegas and returned to San Francisco in 2007. Biana cared for patients in private practice until 2013. Concurrently, she directed a dental post-baccalaureate program at the San Francisco State University, which focused on helping students from traditionally underrepresented minority and socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds gain admission to US dental schools. In 2013, she followed her passion for education and became a full time Clinic Director and Associate Professor at the UCSF School of Dentistry. Biana returned to studies and attended the University of California, Berkeley School of Public Health, where she competed her training for a Masters in Public Health in 2016 and engaged in community public health work as Deputy Dental Director for a federally qualified health center in Oakland, CA. In March of this year, Dr. Roykh joined Columbia University of Dental Medicine as Senior Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs and Associate Clinical Professor. In her daily work, Biana supports patients, dental students, residents, faculty and staff in delivering excellent patient care, clinical education and translational research and discovery. Dr. Sharon Perelman Dr. Perelman is the Chief Medical Informatics Officer and Assistant Professor at Columbia University College of Dental Medicine, spearheading the integration of medical and dental Electronic Health Record (EHR) using the Epic platform. Before this, she spent four years at New York University College of Dentistry, leading the transition to the dental EHR at the largest dental school in the country. She practiced dentistry for over 20 years in private practice before joining academia. Dr. Perelman has a master's degree in Medical Informatics from Northwestern University, and her dental degree is from Loyola University. Dr. Perelman's passion is integrating medical and dental EHR's. Prior to her career in dentistry, she was an intensive care nurse for many years. One of her loves is streamlining workflows and processes, and she has a Green Belt in Six Sigma in Healthcare. Dr. Perelman spent time becoming an Epic physician builder and is certified in the basic physician builder, physician builder data analytics, physician builder health planet, and Wisdom Epic Modules. She has become a leader in her field lecturing domestically and International of EHR's and authored a book chapter on the subject. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close