About About Us Stanford Global Health Faculty Fellows Global Health Advisors For Students & Residents Undergraduates Graduate Students Medical Students Global Health Residency Track Research Administration Roadmap Activities Education Research Building Community Focus Areas 21st Century Leadership Human and Planetary Health Equity in Global Health News & Events Sign up to learn more about news, events and opportunities with Stanford Global Health. Health equity in innovation Stanford Center for Innovation in Global Health We believe in wellbeing. Worldwide. Learn More Banner photo courtesy of Yogendra Singh, Unsplash.com In the News A small pilot project with big impact highlights the value of community-engaged research A Stanford Global Health Seed Grant helps kickstart a groundbreaking research partnership between Global Health Faculty Fellow Ami Bhatt and South African researchers to understand the gut microbiome in communities transitioning from rural to urban lifestyles. Learn More News & Events Jun 1, 5:30 pm Faculty in Focus with Dr. Matt Strehlow Jun 10, 12:00 pm Asian American/Pacific Islander Women Leaders Panel News Five Questions with Dr. Sherry Wren on Caring for Civilians Injured in War Beyond Stanford A small pilot project with big impact highlights the value of community-engaged research Jobs Student Job Opportunity: Global Health Social Media and Digital Communications Assistant We are seeking a talented student to support digital and social media communications efforts to raise awareness of global health research, activities, and opportunities at Stanford University and beyond. Beyond Stanford Support for Dialysis Patients in Sri Lanka The current economic crisis in Sri Lanka is creating incredible strain on its health care system.Global Health Faculty Fellow Shuchi Anand, MD MS has been part of an effort, funded by a Stanford-Kandy sister center grant, to support and grow capacity for peritoneal dialysis in the country. Now, in response to the… In the Headlines Ensuring a Trauma-Informed Approach to Accountability for Crimes Vulnerable populations Global Aid to Sri Lanka Must Prioritize Health Equity for Minority Tamils Events Resources from the 2022 Global Health Research Convening Explore our Blog Our Focus Areas At Stanford Global Health, we share knowledge, equip leaders, and build teams to address urgent global health challenges and achieve health equity. Human and Planetary Health As global warming advances and environmental systems change, human health is threatened. Stanford’s interdisciplinary teams seek to understand the impact of our changing world and to find solutions that help people and protect the planet. 21st Century Leadership Through initiatives and collaborations with organizations like WomenLift Health — a trailblazing leadership program for women in global health incubated at the Center for Innovation in Global Health — we empower decision makers who represent the populations they seek to impact, resolving inequities in health outcomes by unleashing the power of a more diverse talent pool. Explore this topic Global Health Equity We connect Stanford clinicians with local partners to expand their clinical and research capacities. Our faculty fellows focus on empowering communities with limited resources who are most affected by climate change and left out of the highest levels of decision-making. Explore this topic Learn More globalhealth@stanford.edu Resources Privacy Policy Terms of Use global health in your inbox – get our newsletter