Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home First Public Release of V. K. Wellington Koo’s Archive of Personal Papers: Exhibition and Symposium Events Past Event First Public Release of V. K. Wellington Koo’s Archive of Personal Papers: Exhibition and Symposium Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 14, 2017 9:30 AM - 4:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing On July 14th, Columbia Global Centers| Beijing will present an Exhibition & Symposium for Institute of Modern History of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences-Columbia University Libraries to celebrate the completion of the first phase of the joint digitization project of V. K. Wellington Koo Archive. The special exhibition, titled “Wellington Koo and Anti-Japanese War/Second Sino-Japanese War: Commemorating the 80th Anniversary for the Outbreak of the War,” will unveil selected digital images of Koo’s archive of personal papers. This will be the first time materials from the 300 boxes of papers & documents from Wellington Koo's personal archives covering his years as China's diplomat have been seen publicly. The exhibition will give special focus to materials related to the period 1937-45 and the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War/Anti-Japanese War. Distinguished guests from Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People’s Republic of China, Columbia University, Institute of Modern History of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and the Committee of 100, as well as Koo’s family representatives and renowned scholars will participate into the events and deliver remarks. Participants will include Xin Peng, Executive Director of Finance & Administration, Columbia Global Centers; Jianlang Wang, Director of Institute of Modern History (IMH), Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Ann Thornton, Vice Provost and Columbia University Librarian; Shirley Young, Chair, US-China Cultural Institute, Cultural Associate of the Committee of 100 and V. K. Wellington Koo’s step-daughter; Ying-Ying Tsien Yuan, V. K. Wellington Koo’s granddaughter; David Koo, V. K. Wellington Koo's grandson; Sean Quimby, Director of Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) , Columbia University; Yilin Jin, Deputy Director of Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Lydia H. Liu, Wun Tsun Tam Professor of Humanities and Director of Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, Columbia University; Jim Cheng, Director of C.V. Starr East Asian Library, Columbia University; Guangyao Jin, Professor at History Department, Fudan University; Zhongjun Hou, Associate Researcher of Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; and Bingbing Wei, Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. AGENDA Morning Session 9:10 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. Registration 9:30 a.m. - 10:40 a.m. Opening Remarks by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and speech by invited guests 10:40 a.m. - 10:50 a.m. Introduction & Presentation of Digitization Project of V. K Wellington Koo Archive 10:50 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Short Film Screening: “Columbia and China” 11:10 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. The Exhibition of the digital images of V.K. Wellington Koo Archive Afternoon Session 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Symposium: V. K. Wellington Koo and Modern China 4:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Discussion SPEAKERS Xin Peng, Executive Director of Finance & Administration, Columbia Global Centers Jianlang Wang, Director of Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Ann Thornton, Vice Provost and University Librarian, Columbia University Shirley Young, Chair, US-China Cultural Institute, Cultural Associate of the Committee of 100 and V. K. Wellington Koo’s step-daughter Ying-Ying Tsien Yuan, V. K. Wellington Koo’s granddaughter David Koo, V. K. Wellington Koo’s grandson Sean Quimby, Director of Rare Books and Manuscript Library, Columbia University Yilin Jin, Deputy Director of Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Lydia H. Liu, Wun Tsun Tam Professor of Humanities and Director of Institute for Comparative Literature and Society, Columbia University Jim Cheng, Director of C. V. Starr East Asian Library, Columbia University Guangyao Jin, Professor, History Department, Fudan University Zhongjun Hou, Associate Researcher of Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Bingbing Wei, Institute of Modern History, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close