Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Students from Columbia and Universidad Diego Portales collaborate in Innovative Literary Translation Workshop Santiago Students from Columbia and Universidad Diego Portales collaborate in Innovative Literary Translation Workshop July 26, 2018 Innovative Literary Translation Workshop The Spring 2018 semester marks the first year of the literary translation workshop Word for Word between graduate students at Columbia University’s School of the Arts and Universidad Diego Portales (UDP) in Chile. This global course was launched in 2011 and is currently conducted between Columbia students and their counterparts at five universities in Europe and Latin America (Deutsches Literaturinstitut Leipzig in Germany, Scuola Holden in Italy, Instituto Vera Cruz in Brazil, the Université Paris 8 in France, and UDP). The program’s purpose is two-fold -- to provide emerging translators with valuable experience and a global network, and to encourage writers to engage with their own language in a new way. It was founded as a year long exchange program by Professor Binnie Kirshenbaum, the former Chair of the School of the Arts Writing Program and has evolved into a course held every Spring semester hosted out of the Literary Translation program. It results in publication-ready translations of students’ work. In January, four UDP students began participating on this program. It was a new experience for them and their professor Rodrigo Rojas, a Chilean poet and translator at the UDP’s School of Creative Literature. "What makes the course very attractive is that it offers the chance to translate during the exact moments of creation", he said. In the United States the program is coordinated by Susan Bernofsky, a leading translator of the German language in the Master of Fine Arts Writing Program at the Columbia University School of the Arts. At the outset, the School of the Arts program had a Spanish-language partner based in New York. As a result, students interested in the Spanish-language did not have a travel opportunity. This set Alicia Maria Meier, the global programs manager of the School of the Arts, in search of a partnership that could match the structure and expectations of the Columbia workshop. Because the School had a partnership in Brazil, they knew that the Columbia Global Centers often had extensive connections in arts and culture. So when Meier visited Chile in the summer of 2017 on a Global Centers|Santiago-sponsored visit, she had a schedule of talks and presentations, among them with well-known contemporary authors like Alejandro Zambra and Carla Guelfenbein. "Having met Rodrigo and seeing the program at UDP and the caliber of the faculty and number of students who are doing this...it was really interesting to us", explained Meier. "The (translation) programs that exist are few and far between so once we found a partner like that we really wanted to move forward". Chilean students were often translating English-language slang recently created and far from dictionaries. Thus, they sought out context for these words in places like YouTube videos, Rojas explained. In other cases, the translation process revealed errors in the literary work, and forced authors to review their recent creations. "Students were in contact with two living languages", explained Rojas, "the original language and the target language. That was the most exciting aspect". One international translation partnership was Jimena Cruz in Chile and Jonathan Horowitz in the US. "Episodio 5: Fue un Buen Día" by Horowitz and translated by Cruz, is a gritty and intimate dialogue-filled chapter of a novella sketching contemporary life in the streets and coffee shops of the Upper West Side, no doubt a challenge for a non-native English speaker. Cruz's work, one of five monologues of women in history is entitled "The Discovery of Egypt", and it is in effect an epic poem, an uncommon form in Chilean literary tradition. Cruz and Horowitz communicated by email and chat programs. It was their initial conversations in which they discovered a shared appreciation for the directness of language and social content of classic US hip-hop when they formed the basis for a productive relationship, Cruz said. "Working with a text that talks", explained Cruz, referring to Horowitz. "That gave me the perspective of the other, and allowed me both to recognize a few quirks in my work habits and to work with greater speed and certainty". Horowitz's English translation was spare, and achieved an economy of language that Cruz had sought. Horowitz has offered to translate the four other monologues in Cruz's series. The Word for Word workshop is a very unique experience, according to Rojas. Translation instruction tends to be very structured, with the material and lessons pre-planned. This was different, he said. "This is a very intense creative writing workshop… It is alive and entirely uncontrollable… You can somewhat control the methods to be used, but what happens in between is highly unpredictable". Students finished their translations in May. Those texts, which are approximately 1,500 words long, will be compiled into an online anthology, as has been done in previous years. They are also seeking funding for a print edition. And this Winter will see the visit of a Word for Word student to Chile who was awarded a travel grant, Meier said. The goal is to visit the town that was the setting of the text she translated into English. The relationship between Columbia and UDP is expected to deepen. A 2019 writing workshop for Latin American students is being developed, and Diego Portales is expecting to participate, Meier said. And Word for Word workshop is planned for 2019, she added. Tags Columbia University Education Universidad Diego Portales Words for Words News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close