Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home About International Travel Restrictions International Travel Restrictions Columbia-related international travel is currently restricted. Please find the requirements for requesting Columbia-related international travel below. These international travel restrictions are in addition to the requirements of the International Travel Planning Policy. Requests should be submitted prior to booking travel and at least 30 days prior to the commencement of travel. The International Travel Restrictions below are not applicable to strictly personal or leisure travel. However, if your trip includes any CU-related travel or activities (i.e. research, conference attendance, collaborations, etc.), you must complete the appropriate travel request steps below. All affiliates must continue to abide by the Columbia Community Health Compact and all relevant University Public Health Protocols. Spring and Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions Affiliate Type Faculty and Staff International Columbia-related Travel All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed. Affiliate Type Student International Columbia-related Travel For vaccinated students: For travel to countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level 1 & 2, travel permitted with ISOS registration. For countries that have Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Travel Notices Level Level 3 & 4 or 'Level Unknown,' dean’s approval required. See below.* All travel must be registered with ISOS. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed, as must all school-level requirements and protocols. All University International Travel Planning Policy guidelines must be followed. For unvaccinated students with approved exemptions, international Columbia travel is not permitted. Requirements apply to travel from the U.S. to non-U.S. countries and to travel between non-U.S. countries, including after a return to a non-U.S. country of residence. Affiliate Type International Columbia-related Travel *Procedure for Students requesting international travel to CDC Level 3, Level 4, and/or Level Unknown: Secure written approval from the dean. Contact your school for information about how to effectuate. Register approved travel with ISOS. Email [email protected] for more information Follow any other requirements prescribed in the University International Travel Planning Policy, based on the ISOS travel risk rating of your destination, as well as any other school-based requirements or protocols Notes for All Travelers In addition to the items enumerated here, you must also follow the Post-travel Requirements for All Travelers: Adhere to all Compact elements during travel, including indoor masking and social distancing while eating or drinking Exercise caution and judgement, as national and global public health context and local conditions may quickly change Become acquainted with local public health conditions and all rules and regulations of your destination state or country Follow New York State guidance upon return or arrival to campus Follow all Columbia return-to-campus requirements Continue to check this site leading up to any travel. The University reserves the right to revise requirements as conditions change For all international travel, including personal: Review U.S. Department of State website for COVID-19-related risks and restrictions. Review U.S. Department of State website for country-level travel advisories. Review CDC guidance for international travel during COVID-19. Review CDC COVID-19 travel recommendations for your international destination. Post-travel Requirements for All Travelers Vaccinated or unvaccinated: Wear masks indoors at all times Properly distance (6 feet), if drinking or eating indoors Keep in mind that the principles articulated in the Columbia Compact apply on and off campus If unvaccinated: For all domestic or international travel, it is recommended to avoid people with higher risk for severe disease for 14 days For domestic travel: Get a COVID test 1-3 days before the trip Get a COVID test 3-5 days upon return from travel Stay home and self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel (7 days if tested on day 3-5, or 10 days without a test) For international travel, quarantine is required (7 days if tested on day 3-5, or 10 days without a test) If vaccinated: For international travel, get tested 3-5 days after travel For more information, please visit the Spring 2022 Travel Restrictions or Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions. Expand all Collapse all Travel FAQs for Spring 2022 Who is covered? All faculty, staff, and registered students are covered by Columbia’s Spring 2022 Travel Restrictions and the International Travel Planning Policy. These policies apply regardless of whether you are accessing campus. Guidelines for Faculty, Staff, and Students Living in Other Countries Any inbound travel to the U.S. from other countries is subject to CDC Travel Guidance and State of New York guidelines. This includes travel to the U.S. by students who plan to access campus for the spring semester and who also must adhere to University requirements for access to campus. Any outbound travel from the U.S. to other countries is subject to Spring 2022 Travel Restrictions listed here and to those of the destination country. It is also subject to Columbia’s International Travel Planning Policy. Subject to applicable guidance, travel within a non-U.S. country or between non-U.S. countries should be based on local COVID-related guidance. Use caution as the COVID-19 situation may vary from region to region within a country and could change over time. For students, travel between non-U.S. countries that are U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory Level 3 or 4 also requires dean’s approval. Guidelines for Traveling Domestically or Internationally to Come to Campus You must follow New York State guidance upon return or arrival to campus. Before coming to campus, you must review and affirm the Columbia Community Health Compact, complete a gateway test, and quarantine, as appropriate. Participation in Non-Columbia Programs That Include Travel Columbia’s travel restrictions apply to all Columbia faculty, staff, and students even if the travel is part of a non-Columbia sponsored program. This includes travel that may be partially funded or arranged by Columbia, may earn academic credit at Columbia, may be coordinated by a Columbia-recognized student group, or may be an extension of a faculty or researcher’s professional work. Effect on Study Abroad Programs Limited undergraduate study abroad will be permissible starting in the Spring 2022 term. For more information, contact the Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement at [email protected]. Faculty or Staff Working Abroad for the Spring Term Faculty and staff who need to work abroad for the spring semester must register their travel with ISOS and comply with all International Travel Planning Policy requirements. Their departments or units must also contact the International Hiring Committee at [email protected]. Booking Columbia-related Travel in Advance Travelers are encouraged to book Columbia-related travel through Concur, the University travel and expense management system. This ensures travelers can be reimbursed if travel must be cancelled or dates changed. In the instance that travel cannot proceed (e.g., travel is not approved or U.S. or destination restrictions preclude travel) and non-refundable expenses are incurred, decisions will be made at a departmental level about whether a traveler will be reimbursed. Penalty for Those Who Fail to Comply with Current Travel Restrictions Students who fail to comply with applicable travel restrictions will be subject to Dean’s Discipline. In the case of faculty or staff violations, the dean or head of the administrative unit will be notified. [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close