Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Intra-, Infra-, Ultra-, Auto-, Four Short Video Pieces by G. D. Cohen Events Past Event Intra-, Infra-, Ultra-, Auto-, Four Short Video Pieces by G. D. Cohen Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 12, 2017 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Paris, 4 rue de Chevreuse, 75006 Paris Intra-, Infra-, Ultra-, Auto-, Four Short Video Pieces by G. D. Cohen Intra-. Infra-. Ultra-. Auto-. Four prefixes designating four positions, or situations, in relation to the visible, sensible world. Four beginnings that announce some of the various impulses traversing this selection of video works by G. D. Cohen. In one sense, the pieces presented here describe four modest ventures in “experimental cinema,” broadly construed, each paying its homage—whether subtle or explicit—to certain touchstones in a long tradition: Frampton, Beydler, Akerman, Scheugl, Benning. The tools and the aims that give rise to these works, however, are decidedly concerned with the present. Small works of “portable cinema” and restrained essays in audio-visual attention, Cohen’s videos arise from a conviction in the capacity of recorded sounds and moving images to “exercise the sensorium.” As such, they seek to activate and cultivate the distinctly human faculties of perception that allow us to locate and recognize ourselves in the material world. One suspects it is a goal devised with the tacit sense that everything in our media-saturated milieu today seems intent on diminishing, if not abolishing, those very faculties. Four prefixes, then, four intimations of the positions one might assume with respect to places and objects: as landscape, as infrascape, as mnemoscape, as autoscape. In each of the pieces presented here, what emanates from or revolves around the self, or the same, stands either in concert or in tension with the material world, its discrete locales, its inscrutable sounds, its contortions of time and recollection, its myriad and merciless erasures. To be sure, a finite, corporeal sensorium—a body that sees and hears and records—does reside somewhere near the center or near the edges of these works. Yet this homo sentiens may be scarcely more than a prefix itself, an appendage to the tangible places and ineffable moments it sets out to render in moving images and recorded or appropriated sounds. If certain, diverse topoi perhaps emerge as the objects or the effects of these videos—territories or regions at once external to and indivisible from the ego or the cogito—none, it would seem, can truly be comprehended but from within, from beneath, from beyond, simultaneously. Intra-. Infra-. Ultra-. Auto-. —Vadig de Croehling, Founding Director, REASArch (group for Research in Experimental Accumulation and Speculative Archives Greg Cohen G. D. Cohen (https://reasarch.com) is an artist and scholar of visual culture living in Los Angeles, California (USA). His work in video, photography, and multi-media installation draws on a wide range of interests, from urbanism, landscape, and aesthetic philosophy to cultural memory, experimental archives, and the intersections of art and politics. Recent exhibitions include the Los Angeles Center for Digital Art; the Videoholica International Video Art Festival, Varna, Bulgaria; the Cairo Video Festival, Medrar for Contemporary Art, Cairo, Egypt; the Real Colegio Complutense at Harvard University, Cambridge, MA (USA); and the Institute of Cultural Inquiry in Los Angeles. Among Cohen’s major ongoing projects is The Valaco Archive, a multi-media, speculative archive that continues to evolve at https://valacoarchive.com. Cohen currently lectures on Latin American cinema and visual culture at the University of California, Los Angeles, and serves as Associate Programmer for Los Angeles Filmforum, one of North America’s longest-running screening series for experimental film and video. Since 2012, Cohen has also worked as Co-Curator of The Festival of (In)appropriation, an annual, international showcase of experimental found-footage film and video. Philip John Usher Phillip John Usher is Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature at New York University. He is the author, translator, or editor of six volumes, most recently Epic Arts in Renaissance France published by Oxford University Press in 2014. His work has appeared in places such as MLN, Diacritics, and elsewhere. His current research focuses on the interplay of early modern literature and the Anthropocene, an intellectual sandbox he calls the 'Humanist Anthropocene'. He is also interested in, and has published on, modern film and contemporary art." Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close