Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Africa and Africanity Lecture Series; Ethics in Higher Education: An African Perspective Events Past Event Africa and Africanity Lecture Series; Ethics in Higher Education: An African Perspective Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo africanity November 20, 2020 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM Online Event Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi invites you to part two of our webinar series, this webinar will focus on 'Ethics in Higher Education: An African Perspective' The English word “Education” has to do with the formation of persons for responsible adulthood in particular cultural settings. At the same time “Schooling”, has to do with young horses undergoing the drills for enabling them to perform routines. “Training” has to do with dogs undergoing routines that must be followed when responding to a disturbance. Training also refers to the drill of athletes while doing practice in preparation for competitions. People requiring technical skills undergo training. Trainees ought as early as possible to make decisions on the basis of rationalized processing. While it is relatively easy to train a dog and also school a horse, educating a person is complicated – especially because the circumstances in real life are neither predictable nor routine. Thus a horse and a dog can be schooled or trained with robotic drills. A person who is educated will bear full responsibility for his or her choices, and actions. Cultural alienation makes education difficult in situations where the curriculum is alien and alienating. Thus colonial and missionary indoctrination in Tropical Africa was designed for alienating African learners from their own cultural and religious heritage; robotically adopt the alien culture, in the name of Progress and Civilization. This process was rationalized through trivialization and condemnation of the African cultural and religious heritage. These routines were neither voluntary nor anticipated; Africans had either to comply or suffer punishment. In order to survive the majority complied, at least partially, resulting in double-dealing between the old and the new. Citizens of nations in Tropical Africa, irrespective of their former imperial powers, to survive complied with the imperial rule; at the same time sustaining their traditional norms and values. Achievement of national sovereignty for most African nations was based on negotiation for the transition from colonial domination to independence. Africans continued with their traditional way of life while on paper they complied as required. In Post-Independence Africa the Colonial Era has not been forgotten, especially in urban areas now surrounded by informal settlements in the periphery. Former Protectorates had less pressure to conform to imperial demands, and for that reason have normatively been closer to their cultural and religious heritage. Africa, anticipating the first centenary of sovereignty in 2063, is formalizing integration, as other continental blocs have done. Higher Education must be at the forefront of this endeavor. Expand all Collapse all Moderator Bio Prof. Jesse N.K. Mugambi. Prof. Jesse N.K. Mugambi. Professor Jesse N.K. Mugambi – Alumnus of the University of Nairobi – is a member of academic staff since 1976 in the Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies. On Leave of Absence he taught at other universities– including 1990-91 at Rice University, Houston, Texas, as Visiting Mellon Distinguished Professor in the Department of Religion. Among other responsibilities he has been Resource Person for the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) since 1974; World Student Christian Federation (WSCF) since 1974; and World Council of Churches (WCC) since 1975. His professional training is in Education and Communication; and his academic specializations include Philosophy, Theology and Religious Studies. He rose through the ranks to full professorship in 1993. In the University of Nairobi Administration he served as Chairman of Department (1986-90); Associate Dean, Faculty of Arts (1990); Academic Registrar (1990-94). On Leave of Absence he taught at Christian Theological Seminary, Indianapolis (1982-83; Guest Professor at the University of Copenhagen, Denmark (1997); Visiting Professor at Emmanuel College, Toronto, Canada (1999); Visiting Professor at the University of South Africa, Pretoria (2000). He also served as Director of Starehe Boys Centre, Nairobi (2007-2008), on Leave of Absence from the University of Nairobi. His works (as author/co-author and as editor/co-editor) include African Religious Heritage (1976); Philosophy of Religion (1988); African Christian Theology (1989); African Heritage and Contemporary Christianity (1992); Critiques of Christianity in African Literature (1992); Moral and Ethical Issues in African Christianity (1992); Christianity and African Culture (1989, 2002); A Comparative Study of Religions (1990, 2010); From Liberation to Reconstruction (1995); Religion and Social Construction of Reality (1996); Christian Theology and Environmental Responsibility (2001); Religions in Eastern Africa Under Globalization (2002); Christian Theology and Social Reconstruction (2003); Church State Relations (2004); Responsible Leadership: Global and Contextual Ethical Perspectives (2009); Contextual Theology Across Cultures (2009); Applied Ethics in Religion and Culture (2012). He is a Contributor of Articles in the Cambridge Dictionary of Christianity (2010); Handbook of Theological Education in Africa (2013); Routledge Companion to Christianity in Africa (2015); T&T Clark Handbook of Theology and Climate Change (2020). The CGC Webinars addressed by Professor Mugambi are pointers to the dialectical relationship between the global and the local; religious and secular; the individual and society; the long-term and the short-term. Expand all Collapse all Respondent Bio Prof. Roy Joydeep Prof. Roy Joydeep Prof. Roy Joydeep, is the Adjunct Professor of Economics and Education - Columbia Teachers College. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close