Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Global Youth Leadership on Environmental Sustainability with 2020 Columbia SIPA China Delegation Events Past Event Global Youth Leadership on Environmental Sustainability with 2020 Columbia SIPA China Delegation Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 7, 2020 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On January 7, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to a discussion night on climate change and environmental sustainability with students from 2020 Columbia SIPA China Delegation and Schwarzman Scholars at Tsinghua University! Professor Haibin ZHANG, Vice Dean of the School of International Studies at Peking University, and Hanyang WEI, Analyst of Bloomberg New Energy Finance in China and a SIPA alumnus, will also join the discussion. The SIPA China Delegation was inaugurated in 2016. Fully initiated, fund-raised and operated by SIPA students under the support of SIPA and Columbia University, Delegation has gained full support from Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC) and full sponsorship from China-U.S. Exchange Foundation (CUSEF). In 2020, aiming to create an all-dimensional experience, the Delegation will take SIPA students to visit governmental institutions, state-owned enterprises, top Chinese firms, and tourism spots in China. Professor Merit Janow, Dean of SIPA, also sent her high regard towards the visit, anticipating students to have close contact with leaders and talented youths to deepen their understanding of all aspects of China. Panelists Aly Azhar Azhar was born in America and spent his childhood in Karachi, Pakistan. He studied International Affairs and Global Health in undergrad and then spent two years in the United States Peace Corps in Cameroon as a Youth Development Volunteer. After his two years of service with the Peace Corps, he then worked for three years in West Africa (Benin and Liberia) for public health NGOs before ultimately deciding to pursue a MPA in energy policy at SIPA. He served as the President of SIPA Energy Association in 2019. He hopes to work in the field of climate change mitigation and renewable energy after he graduates from SIPA. Pauline Deschryver Deschryver is a French citizen. She is a second-year MPA-Development Practice student at SIPA. She studies economics of development, with a focus on sustainable finance and infrastructure investment in emerging and frontier countries. She is the president of the Columbia European Union Student Association and she is part of the International Fellow Program. Prior to SIPA, she worked for the Prime minister in France on innovative finance for development. She has a background in consulting in West and East Africa, working four years with governments, multilateral organizations, investment funds and companies. During Summer 2019, she interned at Morgan Stanley London on sustainable and green bonds. She holds a master's degree from HEC and Sciences Po Paris in Public and Corporate management. She loves martial arts, writing, going to the movies, acting and reading classics. In another life, her dream job would have been to be a food critic. Bernardo Rivera Muñozcano Muñozcano (SIPA '20) is a Masters of Public Administration candidate, specializing on urban policy and data analytics. He served as the coordinator of the open government strategy at LabCDMX, the experimental and urban creativity office of the Government of Mexico City. As a public servant in Mexico City, he was also a special advisor to the Mayor, as part of the team overseeing the drafting of the city’s first Constitution. More recently, he advised New York City Mayor’s Office in projects around artificial intelligence and algorithmic governance, data analytics, and data governance. Convinced of the empowering capabilities technology can have on societies, and of its positive impacts on wellbeing, Bernardo has designed and promoted several innovation and open government projects, both for the legislative and executive branches. He served as the president of Mexican Students Association Columbia University (MEXSA) in the year of 2019. He’s a keen marathoner, and a passionate cities enthusiast. Alexander MacKay MacKay graduated from New York University Abu Dhabi in May 2019 with a Bachelor's degree in Mechanical Engineering and a minor in the Environment. His interest in combating climate change led him to Greenland to conduct research at the fastest receding glacier in the world and to develop scientific aerial surveying equipment with Lockheed Martin. He has also tackled water access issues in India's largest informal settlement to improve public toilet sanitation. As a Schwarzman Scholar, MacKay hopes to gain insight into implementing sustainable solutions to water issues in the developing world. MacKay is 22 years old and is from PEI, Canada. Shubhojit Ghose Ghose graduated from Erasmus University Rotterdam with a Bachelor's degree in Economics. Previously, he worked at Selco, where his research documented grassroots innovations in India, and at the headquarters of Royal Philips, where he calculated 60% of the company's carbon footprint. At Erasmus, he worked as a research assistant at the Erasmus Trustfunds, the largest university endowment fund in the Netherlands, and served as the chairman of Erasmus School of Economics' student council. He is passionate about sustainability, energy transition, technology, and education access for the underprivileged. Ghose is 21 years old and from India. Special Guests Haibin ZHANG Vice Dean and Professor of the School of International Studies, Peking University, and Director of the Center for International Organization Studies, Peking University. He received his Ph.D. in 1998 from the School of International Studies, Peking University. His major research areas are global environment and climate governance, China's environmental diplomacy and international organizations. He is adviser to the Ministry of Commerce, China, on trade and environment issues; team member of the German foreign Office on climate and security; member of the Board of United Nations Association of China; member of Governing Council of China Society for Environmental Resources Law; member of Governing Council of China Environment Culture Promotion Association; member of Chinese National Committee for Future Earth. He has a long history of participation of international environmental negotiations and is the member of Chinese delegation for United Nations Environmental Assembly since 2014. He participated in China-U.S. 1.5 Track of Climate Expert Dialogue and China-France 1.5 Track of Climate Expert Dialogue between 2013-2015. He was the visiting scholar of the University of Oxford (2015), Cornell University (2003-2004), Niigata University (2001) and Korea University (1995). His major books include: Climate Change and China's National Security (2010), Environment and International Relations (2008), and International NGOs in Global Governance (2004). He published more than 80 articles in academic journals at home and abroad. He also wrote articles for People's Daily, Guangming Daily, PLA Daily and New York Times, etc. Hanyang WEI Wei graduated from SIPA of Columbia University with concentration on Energy & Environment. His undergraduate study focused on economics and finance. He now works with Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) as an analyst for China power market and green finance, in order to understand the policymaking, regulations and clean transition of China's energy sector. Previously, he served as an environmental consultant for three years and conducted site environmental assessment and green finance auditing. He also served as board member for two non-profit organizations. In 2011, internship with UNEP in Geneva for mainstreaming environment in national policies and finance-related initiatives; in 2009, youth representative at the UN Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen (COP15). Moderator Wenpeng LAI Lai is a second year MPA candidate with a concentration on energy and environment in School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University. His interests cover international development, financial investments and energy management. Prior to SIPA, he founded China’s first nonprofit providing humanitarian aids to Syrian refugees and worked in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. During his SIPA life, he has been delving into studying U.S.-China relations from a macro perspective. He used to intern in China Investment Corporation, the Chinese sovereign wealth fund, looking into investment potentials in education, healthcare and 5G industries. He spent his past summer in IHS Markit Beijing, studying oil and gas markets of China and working out investment strategies for clients. Right now he is serving as a research assistant in Centre on Global Energy Policy under Columbia with a particular focus on agriculture, green finance, clean energy R&D and vehicle industry in China. Besides his curricular life, Wen enjoys public speech and traveling. He was a TEDx speaker on nonprofit values and is the incoming emcee for 2020 Columbia University Chinese Spring Festival Gala. He has been traveling to 40 countries and was certified as an AOW diver in 2017. Notice The event will be in English. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Registration begins 30 minutes prior to the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close