Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement International Student Life INTERNATIONAL STUDENT & SCHOLAR SERVICES About International Student & Scholar Services Apply for Admission International Student Life Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Need a study break? You don’t need to go far. There’s plenty to do at TU! Green spaces for autumn strolls, winter snowmen or springtime soccer Exercise and play sports in the Collins Fitness Center Cheer for 17 Golden Hurricane Divison One intercollegiate teams Lectures by renowned authors, scientists, journalists and performers, e.g., Common, Nina Totenberg, Michael Ondaatje, Richard Preston, Azar Nafisi, Dennis Lahane, etc. You can participate in more than 200 campus organizations including honor societies, pre-professional associations, special interest groups and community service projects. Student Organizations There are over 200 student organizations on campus, including international student clubs, academic and social clubs, student government, and recreational sports. The University’s intramural sports program offers participation in over 30 different sports including tennis, volleyball, soccer and racquetball. Additionally, most student organizations host field trips, parties and other social functions. TU Student Association (SA) TU Association of International Students (AIS) The Association for International Students at TU is ready to welcome you to the University of Tulsa. Learn more about the TU International Experience Countries Represented The University of Tulsa is home to students from countries around the world. Check the list below to see how many students from your home country are here at TU. Number of International Students by Country Country Students Angola 4 Argentina 2 Australia 5 Austria 4 Azerbaijan 5 Bangladesh 1 Belgium 1 Brazil 4 Bulgaria 2 Cameroon 1 Canada 9 China 71 Colombia 4 Congo 1 Egypt 2 Estonia 1 France 5 Gambia 1 Germany 10 Greece 2 Hong Kong 1 Hungary 1 Iceland 2 India 20 Indonesia 2 Iran 7 Ireland 8 Italy 3 Japan 1 Kazakhstan 4 Kenya 1 Korea, South 6 Kuwait 28 Lebanon 1 Mexico 5 Myanmar 1 Nepal 8 Netherlands 2 New Zealand 3 Nigeria 7 Norway 1 Pakistan 4 Papua New Guinea 1 Poland 2 Portugal 2 Qatar 1 Russia 2 Saudi Arabia 20 Serbia 1 Singapore 1 Slovenia 1 Spain 9 Sri Lanka 2 Sweden 3 Taiwan 1 Thailand 2 Trinidad & Tobago 1 Turkey 6 Ukraine 3 United Arab Emirates 4 United Kingdom 26 Venezuela 3 Vietnam 4 Safety Tips Practice Safety at Home Whether you live on-campus or off-campus and whether you live in a residence hall, apartment, or house, always lock your doors and windows while you are away and at night. Never open the door for strangers. If you didn’t invite the person, do not open the door unless they are a member of Campus Security, Housing staff, Maintenance/Physical Plant, or the Tulsa Police Department (verified by an official badge). If a stranger has come to your door and you feel threatened, call Security (918-631-5555) on campus or Tulsa Police (911) off campus. Protect Your Valuables Never leave your personal property unattended, regardless of whether you are on or off campus. Keep your car doors locked at all times and never leave valuables in plain sight inside your vehicle. You should get in the habit of writing down serial numbers for property like laptop computers, cell phones, cameras, etc. If any of these items are stolen, the serial number may be used to help track it down. Be Aware of Your Surroundings When Walking Whether you are walking on-campus or off-campus, stay alert to your surroundings. Watch what is in front of you and do not allow yourself to be distracted by your phone. When walking off-campus, it is best to walk in groups and to stay on busy, well-lighted streets. When you pass people on the street, make eye contact. You might even smile and say “hello.” Don’t accept rides with strangers, and if someone in a vehicle asks for directions, keep a safe distance from the vehicle. If you feel unsafe walking across campus at night, you can call Campus Security (918-631-5555) and request an escort. Call Security! ALWAYS call Campus Security (918-631-5555) if you feel threatened or see suspicious activity on campus. It is fine if you call Security and the activity turns out not to be suspicious or criminal in nature. It is better to be safe than sorry! Campus Housing All first and second-year undergraduate students and Pathway to Academics students are expected to live on The University of Tulsa campus and participate in a university meal plan. This policy applies to students who are not yet 21 years old or not married. Residence Halls Campus Apartments Learn more about campus housing and view residence hall details at the campus housing website. Complete the housing and dining application online at Canelink. A $250 housing deposit is required to confirm the contract and should be paid with a credit card during the online housing application process. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT