Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Screening and Discussion: "A Journey to United Nations Climate Change Conference: Origin" Events Past Event Screening and Discussion: "A Journey to United Nations Climate Change Conference: Origin" Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 10, 2020 6:30 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing On January 10, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and All-China Environment Federation invite you to a screening and discussion of the documentary film A Journey to United Nations Climate Change Conference: Origin. You will have an exclusive opportunity to meet with participants of the documentary and hear their initial intention of combating climate change. Dr. Xiaojun YUAN, Lamont Research Professor at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University, and Xu WEN, a Chinese polar explorer who is currently crossing Antarctica alone, will also join the discussion online. About the documentary The A Journey to United Nations Climate Change Conference: Origin is the first documentary from China that narrates the historic moment of 25 years' process of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the climate actions from Chinese civil society during this time period. Agenda 6:30 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Registration (Dinner will be served) 7:00 p.m. - 7:10 p.m. Opening remarks Columbia Global Centers | Beijing Yao NI, Deputy Director, Department of International Cooperation, All-China Environment Federation 7:10 p.m. - 7:50 p.m. Screening A Journey to United Nations Climate Change Conference: Origin 7:50 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. Online sharing Xu WEN, Founder of Polar Hub, who is currently making the longest unaided solo trek across Antarctica 8:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Panel Discussion Zhihua GONG, Founder of Green Lifestyle Media; Director of the documentary Xiaowen ZHENG, Executive Director of China Youth Climate Action Network; Participant of the documentary Binbin WANG, Program Director at Institute of Climate Change and Sustainable Development, Tsinghua University; Consultant of the documentary Qimin CHAI, Associate Researcher at the National Center for Climate Change Strategy and International Cooperation; Consultant of the documentary Yimei CHEN, Secretary General of Vanke Foundation; Co-presenter of the documentary 8:30 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. Comments Xiaojun YUAN, Lamont Research Professor at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University 8:45 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Informal discussion & Group photo Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Registration begins 30 minutes prior to the program. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close