Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Penn Global Business Office Finance and Administration Inside the Business Office Your guide for all things finance and administration at Penn Global Contact the business office using our main email PGBUSINESSOFFICE@LISTS.UPENN.EDU FY22 Close Dates As we near the end of this fiscal year, we have compiled some important dates for you to keep in mind! Purchase Orders: The last day to request a PO & guarantee that it is paid in FY22 is Wednesday, June 15. After we provide you the PO number, you will also have to direct the company to submit their invoice by Friday, June 17. Non-PO payments: The last day to request a Non-PO payment & guarantee it is paid in FY22 is Tuesday, June 28. Concur expenses: you should submit any expense items you have by Friday, June 17. We always try to approve everything submitted in June, but we cannot guarantee they will be processed if submitted beyond this date. If you do have items that are submitted later in June, and you want to make sure are charged to FY22, just send an email to PGBusinessOffice@lists.upenn.edu ProCard: Anything that is posted to your account by Friday, July 1 should post in FY22 Check Deposits: Must be delivered to the Business Office by Thursday, June 23rd, so we have time to enter and drop off prior to Cash Management’s deadline. Go Back credit_card Procurement How do I purchase items or goods on behalf of the university? Go Back flight_takeoff Travel How do I book travel and submit for reimbursement? Go Back attach_money Payables How do I pay people and non-affiliates for goods and services? monetization_on Paying Non-Affiliates wifi_lock International Wire Transfers person_pin_circle Guest Travel and Honoraria Go Back person_add HR How do I onboard new staff and set them up in payroll? Go Back warning Hire IT How do I submit for IT assistance? Go Back credit_card Procurement How do I purchase items or goods on behalf of the university? Go Back flight_takeoff Travel How do I book travel and submit for reimbursement? Go Back attach_money Payables How do I pay people and non-affiliates for goods and services? monetization_on Paying Non-Affiliates wifi_lock International Wire Transfers person_pin_circle Guest Travel and Honoraria Go Back person_add HR How do I onboard new staff and set them up in payroll? Go Back warning Hire IT How do I submit for IT assistance? Penn Global Research Funds Are you an awardee? Are you interested in applying for the India Research and Engagement Fund (IREF), the China Research and Engagement Fund (CREF), or the Global Engagement Fund (GEF)? Follow the links below to be directed to more information. Go Back public IREF India Research and Engagement Fund Go Back public CREF China Research and Engagement Fund Go Back public GEF Global Engagement Fund Go Back public IREF India Research and Engagement Fund Go Back public CREF China Research and Engagement Fund Go Back public GEF Global Engagement Fund Our Team Director of Finance and Administration Drew Cahan Drew Cahan is the Director of Finance and Administration office of Penn Global. He is responsible for overseeing the financial needs, planning and reporting for each of the respective divisions within Penn Global and working with the Provost Administrative Affairs Office. Drew is returning to Penn after two and a half years at Lockheed Martin as a Lead Financial Analyst supporting Naval Undersea Systems Contracts. Prior to that, he spent five years as the Grants Manager for the Center for Global Communication Studies (CGCS) at the Annenberg School for Communication. CGCS was a global comparative media, law, and policy center focused on international programs in conflict/post-conflict and developing regions. Drew helped grow the CGCS network of grants and contracts while maintaining the financial oversight and reporting for the center. Drew holds a Master’s in Public Administration from the University of Pennsylvania’s Fels Institute of Government (with a Certificate in Public Finance) and a B.A. in Finance & Accounting from Northeastern University. Phone: 215-898-1644 Email Business Administrator B Melissa Downey Phone: 215-573-5012 Email Business Administrator A Amy Lahm Phone: 215-898-1641 Email Business Services Assistant Martha Hanson Phone: 215-898-6656 Email Administrative Assistant B Juan Serrat 215-898-1642 Email 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy