Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell Breadcrumb Home Global at Cornell Global at Cornell Global Cornell is a community of belonging with a border-crossing spirit of exploration, learning, and shared discovery. There’s a place for you in Global Cornell and a world of opportunities on campus and beyond. Find ideas and resources for your global research. Build common ground in a new language. Join a student organization. Discover opportunities at a Global Hub. Start exploring here! Part of Global Cornell Global Research and Public Engagement Einaudi Center for International Studies International research, regional and thematic programs, minors, funding opportunities Migrations Initiative World on the move: Migrations research, teaching, summer institute, artist-in-residence Outreach for Educators For K–12 teachers and regional faculty: Bring the world to your classroom with Einaudi International Mobility Education Abroad Study abroad programs worldwide, Global Hubs, faculty-led international experiences International Services Immigration support, international orientations, jobs and OPT, COVID-19 FAQs Travel Safety Pandemic travel policy, International Travel Registry, predeparture orientations Global Across Campus Study Global Cornell offers an abundance of classes that address international themes or take an international perspective. Check out international classes from departments and programs across Cornell. Global Minors International Relations Minor Migration Studies Minor See All Einaudi Center Minors Learn Globally Speak Globally At Cornell, 58 modern and ancient languages are available for study. All language programs are located in the College of Arts and Sciences. Learn about the Language Resource Center. Study Language English-Language Proficiency English for International Students and Scholars is a 1-credit summer and winter class offered by the School of Continuing Education. Global Events Cornell hosts events that transport you around the world. Race and Racism Across Borders with Nanjala Nyabola Hear the podcast that captured Nyabola, author of Travelling While Black: Essays Inspired by a Life on the Move. Upcoming Global Events Global Certificate Programs Ongoing and multiweek programs. Certificate programs with international themes are offered by eCornell, including Creating and Enforcing International Agreements and International Public and NGO Management. Take Certificate Programs Global Institutes and Centers Africana Studies and Research Center AguaClara Cornell Boyce Thompson Institute Center for Global Health (Weill Cornell Medicine) Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise Center for the Study of Inequality Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Cornell China Center Cornell Population Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Institute of Politics and Global Affairs Polson Institute for Global Development Tata-Cornell Institute for Agriculture and Nutrition Cornell Research: Find a Center Understanding Global Evolving Economies Thought leadership on the role of emerging markets in the global economy. The Cornell S.C. Johnson College of Business Emerging Markets Institute provides thought leadership on the role of emerging markets in the global economy. The college's Emerging Markets Theme brings together scholars from Cornell and beyond to explore international trade and finance, input markets, institutions, governance structures, international agriculture and nutrition, and more. About Emerging Markets Institute Global Health Program Explore global health knowledge through experiential learning. Part of the Division of Nutritional Sciences, the Global Health program for undergrads focuses on research, service, and training that addresses health problems that transcend national boundaries and disproportionally affect the resource-poor. About the Global Health Program International Student Organizations Find your community with any of the 100+ Cornell campus groups with an international focus. New transfer and international students gather for games and socializing in Klarman Hall during First Night in early 2020. Join Student Organizations Global Multimedia Global Cornell on YouTube Our YouTube channel features dozens of videos on globally relevant topics on demand. Explore Global Playlists Podcasts with a Global Focus Conversations with experts worldwide on today's most pressing issues. A World on the Move The Migrations initiative hosts a monthly podcast that seeks to understand our world through the interconnected movements that shape it. Ufahamu Africa A weekly podcast, cohosted by Einaudi Center director Rachel Beatty Riedl, about life and politics on the continent. Speaking of Language A weekly podcast produced by the Language Resource Center focused on the intersection of language learning and pedagogy. International Art Collections The Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art welcomes visitors to experience original works of art across a wide spectrum of global traditions, time periods, and media for education, inspiration, and delight. The museum boasts vast and diverse international collections that are continuously being developed. Selected categories are listed below or you can search the entire collection via their eMuseum database. African Collections Asian and Pacific Collections European Collections Explore Art Collections Global Literature Cornell University Library has curated extensive book and digital collections about international topics and places worldwide. Division of Asia Collections Located in the Carl A. Kroch Library is the Division of Asia Collections, one of the richest gatherings of its kind in the United States. It features the Charles W. Wason Collection on East Asia, the John M. Echols Collection on Southeast Asia, and a strong collection on South Asia. Browse Book Collections Digital Collections Billie Jean Isbell Andean Collection This collection of 1,500 photographs and songs began as research for an undergraduate honors thesis in 1967. Cornell East Asia Series A collection of online books in searchable, downloadable format, many of which have been long out of print and unavailable. Cornell Modern Indonesia Collection Initiated in the 1950s by faculty committed to making contemporary analyses of Indonesia and translations of its important documents. Global Performing Arts Database Digital images, texts, video clips, sound recordings, and complex media objects related to the performing arts around the world. Nepali Textbooks About 200 school textbooks from Nepal gathered over the past 30 years. Southeast Asia Visions: Historic Travel Narratives European travel accounts of pre-modern Southeast Asia in English and French. Urban Explorer: John Reps Travel Photographs Urban Explorer documents planning practices and responses to urban issues from 15 countries. Browse Digital Collections Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance