Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students November 12, 2021 Whether it’s best options for traversing Russia on multi-day train journeys or how the priceless treasures of Russia’s biggest museum were hidden during WWII – TU alum Alex Garoffolo has the answers. That’s because Garoffolo had three extended stays in Russia in 2016-2019 that, bolstered by a natural curiosity, allowed him to get to know the country down to nuance. TU’s Russian Club invited Alex to dish about his travels abroad to the TU community, especially to those who are currently learning the language. Alex spoke of trips ranging from Moscow to Tatarstan, from Baikal to the Arctic Circle. His personal map is as dotted with visited cities and landmarks as a Christmas tree with lights. Of 11 cities that hosted the matches of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, for example, Alex had been to 8 (although not during the tournament). Garoffolo is among the most “decorated” study abroad participants TU has seen. A double major in Russian Studies and Finance, Alex first took a semester abroad in St. Petersburg in Fall ’16. Right after graduating from TU in Spring ‘18, he beat the odds of dozens of applicants per slot and was one of 20 students selected for the Fulbright-Hays “Siberia by Southwest” program in summer 2018. He followed up with an even more prestigious Fulbright English Language Teaching Assistant (ELTA) posting to Ul’yanovsk, Russia, in AY 2018-2019. “The Fulbright honed in on what I really want to do right now — help our two countries get closer together,” said Garoffolo before his trip in 2018. And he felt that his study of Russian at TU equipped him well to do so. Alex’s globetrotting has gone far and wide outside of Russia as well. An Eagle Scout with a reliable thirst for exploration, he has visited Italy, Egypt, Jordan, Israel, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan. “Landlocked” within the U.S. during COVID, Alex traveled extensively around the Upper Great Plains, numerous national parks of the West, upstate New York, and Maine. As evident in photos, Alex brings a tidbit of TU with him wherever he goes. Check out the medley of shots while wearing a TUTV t-shirt! The only question is: where is his “I survived Siberia!” swag?? By Olga Randolph, Adjunct Instructor, Russian Language. Global Education GLOBAL EDUCATION: LIFE ABROAD Recent Posts Meet the 2022 Global Graduates Statement on the situation in Ukraine Studying Abroad Without Going Abroad TU Alum Alex Garoffolo Talks World Travel to Students Network collaboration established between TU and Dublin City University Take a TU TRAVEL Course this Spring! Study abroad in Ghana 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT