Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Perry World House Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Perry World House About Experts Research Events Ideas Faculty Students Grants Support Drawer Menu Perry World House About Explore Back to main menu Announcements Join Our Mailing List Our Building Our Events Experts Explore Back to main menu Leadership Distinguished Global Leaders In-Residence Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Explore Back to main menu About Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Meet Our Past Visiting Fellows & Visiting Scholars Apply to Become or Nominate a Visiting Fellow or Visiting Scholar Faculty Affiliates Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Explore Back to main menu About Postdoctoral Fellows Explore Back to main menu Borders and Boundaries Postdoctoral Fellowships Global Innovation Program Postdoctoral Fellowships Penn Identity & Conflict Lab Postdoctoral Fellowship Meet Our Former Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Research Explore Back to main menu The Future of the Global Order: Power, Technology, and Governance Explore Back to main menu Affiliated Faculty and Staff Past Global Order Workshops and Colloquia Explore Back to main menu How to See the Future: Forecasting and Global Policy Explore Back to main menu 2021 Global Order Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces The New Space Age: Beyond Global Order The UN at 75: Coronavirus and Competition Explore Back to main menu 2020 Global Order Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces A Strategic Roadmap for Reentry 2021 and Beyond Transatlantic Disruption: Challenges and Opportunities Emerging Technologies and Global Politics Project Explore Back to main menu Keeping Score: A New Approach to Geopolitical Forecasting Global Shifts: Urbanization, Migration, and Climate Change Explore Back to main menu Affiliated Faculty and Staff Past Global Shifts Workshops and Colloquia Explore Back to main menu Islands on the Climate Front Line: Risk and Resilience: April 20-21, 2022 Locked Down: Global Mobility and COVID-19: March 23-24 and 26, 2021 Explore Back to main menu 2021 Global Shifts Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces Seeking Refuge in the Climate Emergency: September 14-16, 2020 Explore Back to main menu 2020 Global Shifts Colloquium Report and Thought Pieces Climate Change and Geopolitics: June 24, 2021 The Borders and Boundaries Project Explore Back to main menu Borders and Boundaries Project Personnel Call for Papers: 2022 Conference on International Borders in a Globalizing World The Great Powers and Urbanization Project (GPUP) Explore Back to main menu Cities, Geopolitics, and the International Legal Order Report and Thought Pieces Seminar Series Explore Back to main menu Past Seminar Series Publications Events Explore Back to main menu Host an Event at Perry World House Explore Back to main menu Our Spaces Event Policies Event Inventory Event FAQs Livestream Events The World Today Global Lens Ideas Explore Back to main menu Analysis Announcements Media IO COVID-19 Online Supplemental Issue Penn on the World after COVID-19 Penn Pandemic Diary 'The Global Cable' Podcast Publications Faculty Explore Back to main menu Faculty Affiliates Explore Back to main menu Apply to Become a Faculty Affiliate Faculty Fellows Explore Back to main menu Meet Our Faculty Fellows Lightning Scholars Students Explore Back to main menu Global Career Week 2021 World House Student Fellows Explore Back to main menu Meet our World House Student Fellows Explore Back to main menu Past World House Student Fellows World House Student Fellows Policy Projects World House Student Fellows Summer Awards Graduate Associates Explore Back to main menu Meet Our Graduate Associates Explore Back to main menu Past Graduate Associates Graduate Associates Policy Papers House Committee Undergraduate Essay Prize Summer Internship Program Attend an Event Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants International Visitors Grant Program Perry World House-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Perry World House A home for global engagement on Penn's campus. Learn more Explore Perry World House Meet Our 2022-23 Class of Postdoctoral Fellows Perry World House has announced our Postdoctoral Fellows for the 2022-23 academic year. Selected for their academic excellence and commitment to exploring global policy-relevant connections in their scholarship, the Postdoctoral Fellows will spend a year pursuing their own academic research while supporting our overall mission. 2022 Global Shifts Colloquium Small, remote, and with limited resources, islands are among the world’s most vulnerable countries to climate change. On April 20-21, 2022, we convened 'Islands on the Climate Front Line: Risk and Resilience' to explore this critical issue. Perry World House-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize We are partnering with Foreign Affairs, the preeminent outlet for analysis and debate of foreign policy, economics, and global affairs, for the 2022 Emerging Scholars Policy Prize. This $10,000 prize recognizes outstanding, original essays on topics related to international issues from early-career scholars. Apply by June 12! Student Programming Whether you are studying nursing, engineering or political science, Perry World House is a place where you can connect with the world's most pressing issues. Learn more about our programs for undergraduate and graduate students. Join Our Mailing List Be the first to know about Perry World House's ideas, programs, and events by signing up to join our mailing list. Subscribe to our YouTube Channel Videos of all our public events from the spring 2022 semester are available to watch on-demand on our YouTube channel. Subscribe to be notified when new videos go live. Our Ideas Insights from our staff, our visiting fellows and scholars, and our postdoctoral fellows. Read more Asia-Pacific, China, Power & Security An Assessment of the Recent Chinese Incursion over the Taiwan Strait’s Median Line by Thomas J. Shattuck | Global Taiwan Brief Read More Conflict, Power & Security, Technology Boots on the Ground, Eyes in the Sky by Erik Lin-Greenberg and Theo Milonopoulos | Foreign Affairs Read More Climate Change, Power & Security, United States Interview about U.S. Navy Climate Strategy by Erin Sikorsky | The Weather Channel Read More @perryworldhouse Follow Us Last month, China made its first incursion past the centerline of the Taiwan Strait since 2020. This is how Beijing shows displeasure at... RT @eriklg: In our new piece @ForeignAffairs, @MilonopoulosT and I examine the war in Ukraine to explore how commercial satellites are c... RT @BtGProjectDC: New essay by @eriklg and @MilonopoulosT for @ForeignAffairs below 👇 As Shanghai begins to gradually reopen after a strict COVID-19 lockdown, @PennGlobal's @AmyGadsden looks at the potential political cost... Today is the last day of #AAPIHeritageMonth! Check out @upennlib's books and films celebrating Asian-American and Pacific Islander herit... RT @MilonopoulosT: In our new @ForeignAffairs essay, @eriklg & I examine how commercial satellite imagery has shaped the unfolding w... "Gone are the days when only governments could collect advanced intelligence about their rivals." In @ForeignAffairs, PWH's @Milonopoul... RT @ahfdc: There is so much good stuff in this thread my head is spinning! Perry World House is closed today, May 30, in observance of the Memorial Day holiday. We honor and remember all those who have given the... Our Emerging Scholars Policy Prize closes on June 12! Learn more about this $10,000 prize for scholars working on global policy issues, ... @PerryWorldHouse Follow US 3803 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 T. 215-573-5730 F. 215-573-9371 Stay Connected with Updates from Perry World House Mailing list signup Accessibility statement for Perry World House Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy