Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Airborne and Drug-Resistant: Perspectives on Tuberculosis Today Events Past Event Airborne and Drug-Resistant: Perspectives on Tuberculosis Today Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 30, 2021 7:30 PM - 8:30 PM Online Tuberculosis (TB) is among the world’s top ten causes of death and India contributes approximately 21% of this global TB burden. India also has the highest number of cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), which negatively impacts treatment and is becoming a growing concern for healthcare providers. In Kenya, TB is the fourth common cause of death. CGC | Mumbai in collaboration with CGC | Nairobi invite you to a panel discussion where our distinguished experts will discuss the current status of TB and MDR-TB globally and in India and Kenya, explore why TB remains a leading health security threat, and suggest strategies for improving diagnostic capacity, guaranteeing high-quality treatment, and preventing transmission of this deadly disease. As TB is an airborne infection like the SARS CoV-2 virus, the program will address the co-existence and interaction of the two, including the effect of the pandemic on healthcare and efforts to eliminate TB, the implications of vaccines on both, and treatment outcomes. About the Speakers: Dr. Irene Akinyi Mugenya has over five years of experience in clinical medicine and research. She studied Medicine at the University of Nairobi in Kenya. Right after medical school, she worked with different hospitals in Kenya where she gained her passion for public health and research in infectious diseases. She transitioned into research, working at the Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) where she worked on 9 clinical trials on infectious diseases and sickle cell disease, with one clinical trial specifically on Tuberculosis (TB) vaccine in children. Through these clinical trials and clinical experience, she directly screened and managed TB cases in children and adults, educated the community on TB which helped her get firsthand experience on in the diagnosis and management of TB. In her experience, she summarizes the solution as a multipronged approach that combines vaccination of children, patient education, early diagnosis and compliance to treatment. Her passion for TB research and treatment is further fueled by the overall dire situation in Kenya, with Kenya still being among the top 22 countries with the highest rates of TB cases. She is currently working as a Clinic Manager and Trial Physician at KAVI-ICR Kangemi clinic. Neil W. Schluger is the Barbara and William Rosenthal Professor and Chairman of the Department of Medicine at New York Medical College and Director of the Department of Medicine at Westchester Medical Center. Throughout his academic career, Dr. Schluger has focused on tuberculosis and global aspects of lung health, with a strong public health orientation. His work in TB has centered on epidemiology, novel diagnostics and new treatments for latent and active tuberculosis. He has been a principal investigator in the Tuberculosis Trials Consortium, an international collaboration sponsored by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for 25 years and was the Chairman of the consortium from 2000-2016. He is also co-editor and a co-author of The Tobacco Atlas, the definitive work describing the extent and consequences of the global epidemic of tobacco use, published by Vital Strategies and the American Cancer Society. Dr. Schluger is a founder and director of the East Africa Training Initiative in Pulmonary Medicine. He has also been a faculty member for the ATS MECOR (Methods in Epidemiologic, Clinical, and Operations Research) program in India. Dr. Schluger is the author of over 180 articles, chapters and books, and his work has been published in The New England Journal of Medicine, JAMA, The Lancet, Lancet Respiratory Medicine and the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, among other leading journals. He is an Associate Editor of The American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Medicine and is a past-president of the American Lung Association of New York. Prof (Dr.) Ravindra Kumar Dewan, Director of the National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease, is a senior Thoracic Surgeon in India. As TB Manager, he is taking all the initiatives to realize the dream of End TB. Being Head of a tertiary care centre, he is committed to provide high quality preventive, diagnostic, curative and rehabilitative services of global standards to patients of tuberculosis, respiratory diseases and thoracic surgery. He has numerous publications to his credit published in both National and International Journals and has received many awards in his illustrious career. He is a member of several professional bodies including European Society of Thoracic Surgeons, Indian Association of Cardiovascular Thoracic Surgeons, Asian Society for Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, National College ofChest Physicians, Indian Association of Bronchology and Lung Cancer Society of India. He is the Vice President of the Indian Society of Thoracic Surgeons and Trust and is actively engaged in promotion of thoracic surgery expertise globally. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close