Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Homepage Toggle Global Cornell Menu About Global Operations Resources Travel Global Hubs Global at Cornell Global Operations Main Menu Toggle Search Form Register Travel Contact Home Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Hiring and Staffing Abroad Money and Banking Western Union Retail Payments Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics Icertis Contract Administrators International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Breadcrumb Home Global Operations International Engagement for Faculty International Engagement for Faculty Working, studying, and collaborating internationally are vital for Cornell's world-class faculty, but the requirements and logistics can be overwhelming. Cornell provides guidelines and a range of resources to support your work with foreign colleagues and partners, wherever you are—in Ithaca, New York City, or around the world. The Global Operations team is here to help and advise you. University Statements and Guidelines Update on International Research and Engagement: Guidance for the Cornell Community Feb. 2021: Several governmental agencies express growing concern about potential misappropriation of federally funded research by foreign actors, particularly China. Federal regulations and guidelines show an increased emphasis on disclosure of foreign funding, employment, appointments, affiliations, parallel laboratories, conflicts of commitment, and financial conflicts of interest. Form 10 Modification for Faculty Working Abroad and Engagement with China FAQ Jan. 2020: The vice provost for international affairs and the vice provost for research issue a message to faculty about changes to Form 10 (Proposal Approval and Routing Form for any international research projects going through the Office of Sponsored Programs) and guidelines specifically for faculty engaging in and with China. Guidelines on Ethical International Engagement Nov. 2019: Cornell issues guidelines to support faculty members in creating and sustaining ethical relationships and collaborations with partners outside the United States. Academic Integrity and Undue Foreign Influence: Guidelines May 2019: The vice provost for international affairs and the vice provost for research issue a message to faculty about work with foreign collaborators, at home and abroad. Academic Collaborations Learn more about working with an international counterpart and managing and MOA. Best Practices Read about best practices for Foreign Collaborations and Support from Cornell Research. Campus Resources Explore the resources available on campus to support international engagement. Country-Specific Guidelines Engagement with China: FAQ (login required) Find answers in this detailed set of university guidelines for faculty engaging in and with China, including contact information for offices across campus if you have further questions. Iran Sanctions Guidance If you're traveling to Iran or engaging with an Iranian entity, it is critical to consult with Cornell’s Export Controls Office and familiarize yourself with current sanction regulations and prohibitions. Find out more about Iran sanctions at Cornell Research. Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance