Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Global Main navigation Home About Welcome Organizational Chart Global Engagement Global Positioning Strategy Guiding Principles for International Initiatives Guide for Responsible International Activities Managing Foreign Influence Locations Global Presence Resources Faculty Students Corporate Partnerships Alumni and Giving Georgia Tech Fact Book External Review New Initiatives User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Alumni and Giving The Office of International Development, in partnership with the Georgia Tech Alumni Association, coordinates outreach events and alumni celebrations around the world. Breadcrumb Home With more than 150,000 graduates throughout the world, including the U.S., the Office of International Development serves to connect Georgia Tech Alumni, parents, corporate partners, and other sources of support with each other and back to the Institute. The Office of International Development has international representatives located in Asia, Europe and Latin America who serve as liaisons between Georgia Tech and various local alumni networks within those regions. Alumni may reconnect with Georgia Tech in a variety of ways. More than 100 geographic alumni clubs offer alumni an opportunity to network, support the recruiting of Tech students, raise money for local scholarships, and serve in a volunteer leadership role. Through the networks and by transferring the traditions of philanthropy the Office of International Development offers our constituencies an opportunity to engage in the support of Georgia Tech's programs either on campus or abroad through a variety of instruments appropriate to those circumstances. Alumni who live or work overseas may stay connected with other Tech alumni through networking facilitated by the Office of International Development as well as the Alumni Association. Development Opportunities The Office of Development is charged with securing private support for Georgia Tech. Gifts from individuals, corporations, and foundations often make it possible for Georgia Tech to participate in new initiatives, to offer students or faculty exciting opportunities for broader educational and research experience, and in short, take us ""from good to great,"" on many levels. Nowhere is private support more valuable than in the expansion of Tech's activities into the international arena, where state funds cannot be used. With costs in many countries much higher than in the U.S., funds are needed to supplement living and travel expenses for students and faculty. We are also in need of support for international exchanges, professional conferences, collaboration opportunities, and other activities designed to offer the Tech community with the enrichment provided by living, working, and studying in countries other than our own. Opportunities exist to provide support for specific disciplines or in specific countries, and appropriate naming opportunities are available. For more information, please contact: International Development Marta Garcia Email Asia Shelton Chan Email Latin America Sara Araujo Email Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 USA 404.894.7477 Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN