Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Nairobi Who We Are Visiting Nairobi Visiting Nairobi Nairobi, a busy metropolitan city, has risen to become a major East African hub for business. This has been as a result of pro-growth government policy, a diverse economy and an innovation of start-ups, international companies and universities. As of 2016, Nairobi’s population was about 3.5 million. The official languages in Nairobi, and most of Kenya, are English and Kiswahili. It is generally warm in Nairobi, with the colder season falling between June & August. The wet season starts in April through to May. Known as the place of 'Cool Waters', it is home to many tourist attractions like, the Nairobi National Park, the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust elephant orphanage, Karen Blixen Museum, the Bomas of Kenya, The Giraffe Center, The National Museum of Kenya and the Kenya National Theatre. The city presents a rich urban and historical cultural mix. It is a city that hosts a blend of people from all cultures and social backgrounds. We at the CGC | Nairobi Center are always happy to assist you with any logistical needs. Please contact us at: [email protected] Expand all Collapse all Helpful Information The formal currency is the Kenya Shilling. You can convert currency at a forex bureau at the airport, within the city or at any major bank. ATM machines can be found in shopping malls and gas stations. Most credit cards are accepted at the major shopping malls, hotels and restaurants. Mobile money, commonly known as MPESA is a widely used form of payment. To use it, you will need to visit a Safaricom support center (found in all major malls), buy a Safaricom sim-card and activate MPESA. To acquire a sim-card locally, you will need your passport to register into any local cellular network. Safaricom has the widest coverage followed closely by Airtel and Telkom networks. You can purchase sim-cards at the airport or from major malls from between $1 - $2. Request for assistance in setting up for a data bundle to facilitate internet access. Taxi companies like Uber, Little Cab, Mondo Ride and Taxify are well established to cater for your transport needs within Nairobi. Public shuttle buses are available from the airport and within Nairobi. Fare prices range from KES.50 to KES.150 ($.50 - $1.50) in the city and its environs. You can also catch the famous ‘Matatu’, the loud vibrant mini-bus that has been called a cultural museum on wheels. They ply set routes and are used for both inter and intra city travel. The fare prices also range from KES.50 to KES.150 ($.50 - $1.50). The standard power voltage is 240v. Nairobi has 3 star hotels averaging $75 and 5 star hotels averaging $213. CGC | Nairobi has been able to secure low corporate rates with most of these hotels which are availed to our guests upon request. Hotels that are located near us are Sankara, Park-Inn by Radisson, Tune-Inn, Pride-Inn, Jacaranda, La Maison Royale, Concord Hotel, Villa Rosa Kempinski, Wasini Luxury suites and Mayfair hotel. Bed and Breakfast facilities are also available for budget travelers – for more information on B&B visit; https://www.airdna.co/top/ke/nairobi Popular restaurants are Java Coffee House, Fogo Gaucho, and a wide range of American eateries like Subway, Dominos, Coldstone Creameries, KFC, Burger King and Pizza Hut. Popular malls near the Center are Sarit Center, Westgate mall and Lavington mall. One of the great experiences for visitors in Kenya is a visit to the Maasai Market. At these open-air markets, you will find curios, art work, African-print fabric, and jewellery, hand-made by local artisans. You can buy all your souveniers and gifts in one-go but get ready for some serious bargaining. For the schedule, please visit: http://www.kenyanpoet.com/2014/04/04/the-maasai-market-open-days-schedule-in-nairobi Visa Processing If you need a visa, you can process one on arrival at the port of entry. Ensure you have the following: Supporting documents showing the purpose of your visit A valid passport for no less than 6 months $50 / €40 / £30 for a single entry visa Some Helpful Links: http://www.kenya-information-guide.com/kenya-visa.html http://www.kenyaembassy.com/visa.html (Provides information on Visa services) http://www.kenya-information-guide.com/nairobi.html (Provides information on accommodation, dining, vacation rentals or booking a safari) Interesting Facts About Kenya In 2016, Nairobi City was ranked among the top 20 successful cities globally in innovation, liveability and capacity to reinvent itself. (Source: City Momentum Index (CMI)) In 2017 Nairobi was ranked as the most dynamic city in Africa, ranking 10th in the world. Ranking was done on the basis of innovation and technology. This placed Nairobi in the best position to the current ever changing economic landscape. (Source: City Momentum Index (CMI)) In 2017 Kenya was ranked top in Africa as having the fastest internet connectivity speeds. This has led to a significant influence on e-commerce and also resulted in enormous social and economic benefits for the country. (Source: Content Delivery Network (CDN)) In 2014 and 2015, Nairobi was named the most intelligent city in Africa. The ranking was done based on the population that has taken “conscious steps” to create an economy that can prosper in the “broadband economy”. (Source: Intelligent Community Forum (ICF)) Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close