Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home ReelLife Film Series: Saf Events Past Event ReelLife Film Series: Saf Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 22, 2019 6:30 PM - 9:30 PM ReelLife Film Series Nothing brings you into an issue quite like seeing it. Come around the world with us through the lens of compelling stories and conversations. Each screening will be followed by a discussion about the film and its social issues with filmmakers and experts. Saf Date & Time: Wednesday, May 22 at 18:45 Location: ANAMED (Koç University Research Center for Anatolian Civilizations), İstiklal Cad. Merkez Han No:181 *The film is in Turkish with English subtitles. The discussion will be in English, with no translation into Turkish. **Theater seats are assigned to ticket holders on a first-come, first-serve basis. If you arrive after 6:30 pm and the auditorium has reached full capacity, it will be standing room only. Thank you for understanding. About the Film: The Fikirtepe district of Istanbul. Urban transformation is sweeping away the poor communities and Syrian refugees take shelter in deserted buildings. Kamil and his wife Remziye risk losing their home. Unemployed for a long time, Kamil, has no choice but to secretly accept a job on a construction site. Not only is he taking the job from a Syrian refugee, he's also working for the company that's destroying the area next door. Oppression and anxiety both in his neighborhood, where he fears discovery, and at work, where he's accepted the low wages paid to refugees, gradually transform him. When Kamil suddenly disappears, Remziye has to face the consequences of his actions, which do not fit the man she knows. But she will not give up. Discussion Following Film With: Ali Vatansever studied industrial design at Istanbul Technical University and film production at Istanbul Bilgi University and Rochester Institute of Technology. He is now teaching film courses in Media and Visual Arts Dept. at Koç University. Ali made his directorial debut with El Yazisi (12). His second film Saf (18) premiered at the Toronto Film Festival. He is pursuing his directing career within Terminal, a production company he co-founded. Ipek A. Çelik Rappas is an Assistant Professor of Media and Visual Arts at Koç University. Her book In Permanent Crisis: Ethnicity in Contemporary European Media and Cinema was published by University of Michigan Press in 2015.She currently works on a second manuscript on the role of film and television industry in the urban renewal of European cities. Selva Gurdogan received a B Arch from the Southern California Institute for Architecture. She has worked at the Office for Metropolitan Architecture (OMA) in Rotterdam and New York. In 2006, she founded Superpool in Istanbul with Gregers Tang Thomsen. She has been in charge of several projects, including the Open City: Istanbul and Becoming Istanbul exhibitions, Mapping Istanbul, and the Caravansarai Art Production Space. As of November 2013, she is the Director of Studio-X Istanbul. Vesna Djuteska Bisheva - is an Employment Specialist at the UNDP Istanbul Regional Hub with 20 years experience in employment and sustainable development. Vesna Bisheva provides advisory services to 17 UNDP country offices in the ECIS regions in developing and implementing next generation project that promote inclusive and sustainable employment for people confronting multiple barriers and forms of exclusion. Vesna holds Master degree in development and macro-economic analysis. (Moderator) Ela Başak Atakan has a BA from Amherst College and an MFA in Film from Columbia University. She has directed music videos and has written feature screenplays and television series. She is a full time instructor at Koç University Media and Visual Arts Department where she teaches film analysis and script writing. This screening series is an initiative of Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul, Koç University’s Media and Visual Arts Department, and the UNDP Istanbul Regional Hub. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close