Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Generation Z and the Changing World Events Past Event Generation Z and the Changing World Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 15, 2022 6:30 AM - 8:00 AM Online At the cusp of adulthood, Gen Z is the first group of ‘digital natives’ whose sense of self, community, and the world is radically shaped by the Internet and social networks. Born at the turn of the millennium, a Pew Research Center study pegs this generation as set to be the most well educated and racially and ethnically diverse. However, the prognosis of an uncertain future looms large, propelled by crises in education, employment, climate change and beyond. Further exacerbated by Covid disruptions and issues of social justice and equity, such concerns make the exploration of young people’s desires and concerns more urgent than ever. What are their aspirations? What fuels or hinders hopes for their own future and that of the world? Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai invites you to an online presentation featuring Dr. Vishakha Desai, Co-Director of the Youth in a Changing World project at Columbia University, to discuss the study’s findings on Generation Z and global citizenship. Part of a research project of the Committee on Global Thought, the project aims to complement large quantitative surveys from several cities to provide a more qualitative and nuanced understanding of the attitudes of youth across the world. The emphasis of this interactive presentation will be on how Gen Z views the world, and what it expects from older generations in order to solve the big global challenges confronting it. About the Speaker Dr. Vishakha Desai is Chair of the Committee of Global Thought, Senior Advisor for Global Affairs, and Senior Research Scholar in Global Studies at Columbia University. Dr. Desai is also author of the recently published memoir, World as Family: A Journey of Multi-Rooted Belongings, published by Columbia University Press in the U.S. and Penguin Random House in India. Prior to joining Columbia, Dr. Desai spent 22 years at the Asia Society in New York, an educational organization dedicated to promoting mutual understanding and strengthening partnerships in Asia and the United States, and served the last eight years as its president, steering the organization’s growth in programs on education, art, business and public policy. A visiting professor at Columbia in 1995-96, Dr. Desai has also taught at Princeton University, Williams College, Boston University, College of Charleston and the University of Massachusetts, Boston. In addition to early work in education and public programs at the Brooklyn Museum and the Cleveland Museum of Art, she was Assistant Curator of Indian, Southeast Asian and Islamic Collections at Boston’s Museum of Fine Arts. She has published catalogs of major exhibitions and holds five honorary degrees. Born in India, Dr. Desai received her B.A. in Political Science from Bombay University and her M.A. and Ph.D. in Art History from the University of Michigan. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close