Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Eğitimi Gündeme Koymak: Bir Sivil Toplum Deneyimi Olarak Eğitim Reformu Girişimi Events Past Event Eğitimi Gündeme Koymak: Bir Sivil Toplum Deneyimi Olarak Eğitim Reformu Girişimi Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 29, 2019 6:30 PM - 8:30 PM Istanbul Columbia Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul, Columbia Alumni Association of Turkey işbirliği ile, Distinguished Leaders Speaker Series kapsamında Eğitim Reformu Girişimi Yönetim Kurulu Başkanı ve Boğaziçi Üniversitesi eski Rektörü Profesör Üstün Ergüder'i "Eğitimi Gündeme Koymak: Bir Sivil Toplum Deneyimi Olarak Eğitim Reformu Girişimi," başlıklı konuşmasıyla 29 Mayıs Çarşamba akşamı Studio-X Istanbul'da ağırlayacak. Prof. Ergüder, eğitime adadığı yaşam yolculuğundan kesitleri ve eğitimdeki sivil toplumun yerini Eğitim Reformu Girişimi deneyimi üzerinden bizlerle paylaşacak. Etkinlik dili Türkçedir. Prof. Dr. Üstün Ergüder lisans derecesini Manchester Üniversitesi'nden almış, yüksek lisans ve Siyaset Bilimi doktorasını da New York'taki Syracuse Üniversitesi’nde (Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs) 1969 yılında tamamlamıştır. Aynı yıl, Robert Kolej (Eylül 1971 itibarıyla Boğaziçi Üniversitesi) akademik kadrosuna katılan Ergüder, 1992-2000 yılları arasında Boğaziçi Üniversitesi Rektörü olarak görev yapmıştır. Rektörlük görevinden önce, Siyaset Bilimi ve Uluslararası İlişkiler Bölümü’nün Başkanlığı'nı yürütmüştür. Ergüder, 2001'den 2013 yılına kadar Sabancı Üniversitesi İstanbul Politikalar Merkezi’nin Kurucu Direktörlüğü'nü yürütmüştür. Sayın Ergüder'in Türkiye'de ve yurtdışında yayımlanmış makale ve kitapları bulunmaktadır. Prof. Dr. Ergüder, 2009-2013 yılları arasında merkezi Bologna'da bulunan Yükseköğretim Kurumsal Özerklik ve Akademik Özgürlük İzleme Merkezi (Magna Charta Observatory) başkanlığı yapmıştır. Sabancı Üniversitesi'nde emeritus profesör olan Prof. Dr. Ergüder, Türkiye Üçüncü Sektör Vakfı (TÜSEV) Onursal Başkanı ve Vehbi Koç Vakfı Yönetim Kurulu, Kadir Has Üniversitesi Mütevelli Heyeti üyesi olup Koç, Işık, Özyeğin üniversiteleri mütevelli heyetlerinde de görev yapmıştır. Ayrıca Robert College Mütevelli Heyeti'nde, Avrupa Kültür Vakfı (ECF) ve Avrupa Vakıflar Merkezi (EFC) yönetim kurullarında hizmet etmiştir. Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul Danışma Kurulu üyesi olan Ergüder halen, kurucularından olduğu, Eğitim Reformu Girişimi'nin Yönetim Kurulu Başkanlığını yapmaktadır. On May 29, Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul, in partnership with the Columbia Alumni Association of Turkey, will host Professor Üstün Ergüder, Chair of the Executive Board of the Education Reform Initiative and former President of Boğaziçi University, as part of its Distinguished Leaders Speaker Series at Columbia University's Studio-X Istanbul. Prof. Ergüder, in his speech entitled “Putting Education on the National Agenda: Education Reform Initiative as a Civil Society Experiment,” will tell us stories of his life devoted to education and the role of civil society - based on his experience with the Education Reform Initiative. Please note that this event will be in Turkish with no translation into English. Professor Üstün Ergüder, upon completing his undergraduate studies at Manchester University, moved on to Syracuse University, Maxwell School of Citizenship Public Affairs, in New York to work for a Ph.D. degree in political science. In September of 1969 he joined the faculty of Robert College (Boğaziçi University after September of 1971) after receiving his Ph.D. Ergüder served as the rector of Boğaziçi University between 1992-2000. In 2001 he moved on to Sabancı University and served until 2013 as the founding director of İstanbul Policy Center. Ergüder has both books and articles published at home and abroad. In terms of international engagements, he has served as the President (2009-2013) of the Magna Charta Observatory of Academic Freedom and Institutional Autonomy located in Bologna, Italy, and as members of the boards of European Cultural Foundation, and of the European Foundation Center located respectively in Amsterdam and Brussels. As an emeritus professor at Sabancı University he is the honorary president of the Third Sector Foundation of Turkey, a member of the executive board of Vehbi Koç Foundation, and a member of the Board of Trustees of Kadir Has University. He has also served on the boards of trustees of Koç, Işık, and Özyeğin universities. Currently he is a member of the Board of Advisors of the Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul, and the Chair of the Executive Board of the Education Reform Initiative, of which he is one of the founders. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close