Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News The Insidious Harm Of The Turn On Immigration - The Huffington Post Op-Ed by Professor Safwan Masri Amman The Insidious Harm Of The Turn On Immigration - The Huffington Post Op-Ed by Professor Safwan Masri Ways of life long relied upon are being overturned. March 04, 2017 Read the full article here The cost of the Trump administration’s abrupt changes in immigration policy, to individuals and families, to companies and communities, and to our nation’s standing as a place of tolerance and opportunity, are enormous. Far more sinister than travel bans and policy changes is the undeclared, and now seemingly common, practice of profiling on the basis of religion and origin. We’ve heard many troubling stories over the past month. Now I have my own. I am a Jordanian-born American citizen who attended college and graduate school in the United States, and for almost three decades I have been an academician and senior administrator at Columbia University. My current position, overseeing a network of eight global centers on five continents, requires frequent international travel, usually causing me to leave and re-enter the United States on a monthly basis. On February 18, upon my return from a trip to India and Columbia’s center in Mumbai, I was detained and questioned by a border control officer at JFK airport who wanted to know whether I currently live in the U.S. or in my country of birth. There were more questions about the nature of my relationship with Jordan and the purpose of Columbia’s Global Centers. Though never made explicit, the unmistakable subtext of the interrogation was to vet on the basis of Muslim and Arab affiliation. This was the first time I ventured abroad since Donald Trump became president and the first time in all of my extensive traveling from America that I have been detained and questioned upon my return. There are layers of irrationality and irony here. When I arrived home, there was a reminder of the most basic duty of my American citizenship waiting in my mailbox: a summons for jury duty. And long ago, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Program for Global Entry designated me a low-risk traveler. This was the first time I ventured abroad since Donald Trump became president and the first time in all of my extensive traveling from America that I have been detained and questioned upon my return. Initial feelings of vulnerability and insult quickly turned to thoughts of what this experience can teach about the new direction President Trump is seeking to take the country. We scarcely need reminders of the departure from American values represented by the president’s policies regarding immigrants and refugees. American exceptionalism and the country’s appeal to immigrants are rooted in the nation’s openness, inclusiveness and generosity. This has been a country that not only tolerates but celebrates the differences among individuals. My experience at the airport was not required to explain that ways of life long relied upon are being overturned. It did, however, sharpen my understanding of the purpose of the disturbing project engineered by Mr. Trump that is now upon us. At one level, it is to destroy the tolerance that makes America unique and, yes, great. The changes underway aim to accentuate differences in race, culture, religion, sexual orientation and national origin, not for the purpose of celebrating them, but to enshrine a negative perception of “otherness” and, most ominously, an environment of bigotry. In this view of the world expressed unambiguously by the president and some members of his cabinet, the Muslim and Arab are the most dangerous “other.” The real-world implementation of the new approach to immigrants is both less and more than advertised. At last year’s Republican convention and again during his address to a joint session of Congress, Mr. Trump called attention to the victims of crimes perpetrated by immigrants, offering their stories as the rationale for calls to build literal and figurative walls against the world beyond our borders—making a visceral case where no rational one exists. We scarcely need reminders of the departure from American values represented by the president’s policies regarding immigrants and refugees. What does the spectacle of publicly displaying those personal examples of sorrow and loss have to do with the attempted deportation this past week of a French historian and former visiting professor at Columbia, Henry Rousso, after he arrived in Houston to deliver a keynote address at Texas A&M University? (Professor Rousso was born in Egypt.) What should we make of the religious profiling of Muhammad Ali Jr., who was asked at a Florida airport if he was a Muslim? If not to shield us from violence, then what are these policies really about? I think we know. In addition to the very real damage done to countless people’s lives and to American institutions that thrive as magnets for talent from around the world, there is also a not-so-subtle agenda at work here to make difference and otherness a badge of shame and to communicate to the public that there is a preferred type of American. These incursions into the lives of ordinary citizens affect us all and, if not rejected, will come to define our country. I am privileged to work at a great research university and to be immersed in an academic mission of global engagement that serves as an antidote to Mr. Trump’s policies built on xenophobia and hyper-nationalism. Laws and attitudes that prevent the U.S. from remaining a welcoming place for scholars and students from around the world will destroy our nation’s global leadership position in higher education and, I fear, much more. My recent experience and the experience of many others serve as warnings of the danger that lies ahead. These warnings should be heeded. Tags Columbia Commitments: Global Solutions Columbia Commitments: Just Societies Amman Education News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close