Skip to content Linkedin Facebook Twitter Youtube DONATE Home About Paris Declaration Leadership Former Chairs Featured Deans Bylaws Members Regular Members Corporate Partners Quality Partner Former Deans Ambassadors Organizational Members Observers Join Corporate Value Proposition Membership Application Diversity Award Platforms GlobalEngineer Rising to the Top Virtual Internship Program Gedcexchange Events Annual Conference Industry Forum Get Involved! Webinars Contact Menu Home About Paris Declaration Leadership Former Chairs Featured Deans Bylaws Members Regular Members Corporate Partners Quality Partner Former Deans Ambassadors Organizational Members Observers Join Corporate Value Proposition Membership Application Diversity Award Platforms GlobalEngineer Rising to the Top Virtual Internship Program Gedcexchange Events Annual Conference Industry Forum Get Involved! Webinars Contact research education A global network of leaders in STEM Global Engineering Deans Council Join the community sustainability innovation Call for Authors for Rising to the Top Volume V! Join the Rising to the Top community and contribute a chapter to the volume highlighting women leaders in the Middle East North Africa Arab region. LEARN MORE >> IFEES and GEDC members can lead our capacity to establish effective engineering that assures an inspired and peaceful solution to world problems. LEARN MORE >> Celebrate International Women's Day Join IFEES, GEDC, and IUCEE in celebration of International Women's Day for an important dialogue with women from around the globe. LEARN MORE >> WEEF IFEES GEDC 2022 Call for Papers Announcing our 2022 World Engineering Education Forum to take place November 28 - December 1 in Cape Town, South Africa. LEARN MORE >> Rising to the Top: Volume III and IV NOW available for purchase! We invite you to participate in the journeys of 22 global women engineering leaders as they share their stories of challenges and success on their quest to rise to the top. LEARN MORE >> Our community 0 + Members 0 + Institutions 0 + Countries 0 Continents Previous Next GEDC Chair The Global Engineering Deans Council is proud to announce our new chair, Dr. Sunil Maharaj, from the University of Pretoria, South Africa has taken office. Dr. Maharaj’s entered his two-year-term during our World Engineering Education Forum in Madrid, Spain. Continue reading >> Featured Dean Marcello Nitz Instituto Maua de Technologia Brazil If we want students to make a difference in the world, we must have Deans and Faculties aligned with best education practices in engineering. Interview News 2022 Bernard M. Gordon Prize for Innovation in Engineering and Technology Education Awarded to GEDC Members The National Academy of Engineering (NAE) announced that the 2022 Bernard M. Gordon Prize for Innovation in Engineering and Technology Education will be awarded to the Grand Challenges Scholars Program (GCSP) pioneers Jenna P. Carpenter, Thomas C. Katsouleas, Richard K. Miller and Yannis C. Yortsos. READ >> World Engineering Day – Engineering for A Healthy Planet: Celebrating the UNESCO Engineering Report The UNESCO WFEO report shows how equal opportunities for all is key to ensuring an inclusive and gender balanced profession that can better respond to the shortage of engineers for implementing the SDGs. READ >> Peace Engineering (PENG) for a Sustainable Planet by 2030 Learn about the University of New Mexico's Peace Engineering Biome, a transdisciplinary, multi-institutional center charged with leading the Peace Engineering movement nationally and globally. READ >> Webinars A Taxonomy of Modern Mechatronics: Classification and Dissection of Autonomous Electromechanical Systems for Scaffolded Skills-Based Learning Experiences June 22nd 13:00 UTC Beyond the Books: The Importance of Knowledge for Women Empowerment May 25th 13:00 UTC How Can Engineering Deans Prepare Students for Emerging 4th Industrial Revolution Aerospace Engineering Roles? June 29th, 2022 13:00 UTC Community Events 00 Days 00 Hours 00 Minutes 00 Seconds Corporate partners Quality partner Navigation Home About Members Become a Member Diversity Award Platforms Events Contact Us GEDC Secretariat Hans Jürgen Hoyer George Mason University Volgenau School of Engineering 4400 University Drive, MS 4A3 Fairfax, VA 22030 United States of America 1-202-299-4942 Connect with us Linkedin Facebook-f Twitter Youtube All Rights Reserved Global Engineering Deans Council © 2021 Share these journeys! Purchase your copy today and support the book series! We are honored to announce that our Rising to the Top book series has added TWO new volumes! Rising to the Top provides an intimate and inspiring look into the experiences that have shaped the lives and careers of women engineering leaders from around the world. By openly sharing their personal journeys in these pages, the authors hope to not only inspire the next generation of engineering leaders, but also provide valuable insight into the challenges facing women engineers around the world, and the opportunities that are theirs for the taking. Learn More>>