Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Rio What We Do Education Programs Accelerating Growth in Brazilian Cities – Special Program for Mayors Accelerating Growth in Brazilian Cities – Special Program for Mayors ACCELERATING GROWTH IN BRAZILIAN CITIES – SPECIAL PROGRAM FOR MAYORS ABOUT THE PROGRAM The Accelerating Growth in Brazilian Cities – Special Program for Mayors is a new initiative of the Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro. It was developed in partnership with Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and Comunitas, an organization of the Brazilian civil society that aims to contribute to the improvement of corporate social investment and encourage private sector participation in the social and economic development of the country. A spin-off from the Leadership in a Challenging Century program aimed at public managers, this new edition, and new training format presents a more intensive, one-week approach and practical focus with academic, instrumental and strategic visits to public bodies in New York, where the module occurs. We believe that this leadership program aimed primarily at Brazilian mayors is the only one of its kind in the United States. The goal of the program is to provide participants with the tools they need to solve problems and improve results. With a focus on leadership, innovation, and governance, the training addresses topics such as innovative partnerships, public ethics, workforce development, smart cities, digital democracy and social value investing. In addition to classes with Columbia faculty and institutional visits, we have the experience of leaders, mayors, and former mayors of American cities with ties to Columbia. Through the discussion of good practices and innovative experiences, these municipal leaders will be able to confront the challenges of complex and growing cities. CLASSES LEADERSHIP AND INNOVATION Professor William B. Eimicke, School of International and Public Affairs SMARTER CITIES: HOW CITY AGENCIES INNOVATE Professor André Correa D’Almeida, School of International and Public Affairs GLOBAL PARLIAMENT OF MAYORS Professor Sheila R. Foster, Georgetown University BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS Professor Robert Walsh, School of International and Public Affairs SOCIAL MEDIA & PUBLIC SERVICE: HOW MAYORS CAN USE TWITTER & FACEBOOK TO BE BETTER LEADERS Professor Alexis Wichowski, School of International and Public Affairs FIGHTING FAKE NEWS THE AMERICAN WAY Professor Anya Shiffrin, School of International and Public Affairs HOW TO MAKE CITIES ECONOMICALLY COMPETITIVE Professor Ester Fuchs, School of International and Public Affairs COMPSTAT, SECURITY AND PUBLIC SAFETY FOR CITIES OF BRAZIL Professor Robert Zach Tumin, School of International and Public Affairs Guests: Susan Herman, NYPD Dep Commissioner for Collaborative Policing Tim Sussman, Crowdsourcing Platform Ideascale David Krejci, Webber Shandwick Crisis Simulation Platform “firebell” SOCIAL VALUE INVESTING Professor William B. Eimicke, School of International and Public Affairs Central Park Conservancy SITE VISITS CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY The Central Park Conservancy, a private, nonprofit organization, was formed in 1980 by a group of concerned citizens determined to improve Central Park. Today, we manage Central Park under a contract with the City of New York. Over its 160-year history, the Park has experienced several cycles of restoration and decline. The era of decline in the 1960s and 1970s led to the Central Park Conservancy's formation. The Central Park Conservancy is uniquely qualified to prevent future declines and ensure the Park's care for current and future generations. Thanks to the generosity of many individuals, corporations, foundations, and the City of New York, the Central Park Conservancy has invested more than $1 billion to date in the Park, making it a model for urban parks worldwide. They provide 75% of Central Park's $79 million annual operating budget and are responsible for all aspects of Park maintenance, as well as capital improvements and restorations. GEHL INSTITUTE Gehl Institute's mission is to transform the way cities are shaped by making public life an intentional driver for design, policy, and governance. They're committed to getting public life on the agenda of cities across the globe. BLOOMBERG ASSOCIATES Bloomberg Associates is an international consulting service founded by Michael R. Bloomberg as a philanthropic venture. Our mission is to help city governments improve the quality of life of their citizens. Directed by a team of globally recognized experts and industry leaders, the consultancy works to improve urban environments by collaborating with cities to develop best practices, build consensus and foster key relationships. Through its guidance and mentorship, Bloomberg Associates delivers actionable insights and plans across multiple disciplines. Additionally, the team fosters public-private partnerships to help each city build resources and implement programs that turn dynamic vision into reality. In times of great national turmoil in Brazil and around the world, cities and their managers are called upon in a special way to deliver results for their citizens. This innovative program for Brazilian mayors reflects our highest ideal – to forge a mutually beneficial exchange of experience and ideas about cities in order to benefit the lives of many in Brazil and beyond. Informed by the best traditions of public policy research and practice at Columbia University, the program combines lessons in the classroom with management lessons to be drawn from the living classroom that envelops the University – the great city of New York. Thomas J. Trebat, Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro Director GUEST SPEAKERS STEPHEN GOLDSMITH Stephen Goldsmith is the Daniel Paul Professor of the Practice of Government and the Director of the Innovations in American Government Program at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. He currently directs Data-Smart City Solutions, a project to highlight local government efforts to use new technologies that connect breakthroughs in the use of big data analytics with community input to reshape the relationship between government and citizen. He previously served as Deputy Mayor of New York and Mayor of Indianapolis, where he earned a reputation as one of the country's leaders in public-private partnerships, competition, and privatization. Stephen was also the chief domestic policy advisor to the George W. Bush campaign in 2000, the Chair of the Corporation for National and Community Service, and the district attorney for Marion County, Indiana from 1979 to 1990. He has written The Power for Marion County, Indiana from 1979 to 1990. He has written The Power of Social Innovation; Governing by Network: the New Shape of the Public Sector; Putting Faith in Neighborhoods: Making Cities Work through Grassroots Citizenship and The Twenty-First Century City: Resurrecting Urban America; and The Responsive City: Engaging Communities Through Data-Smart Governance. RICHARD C. GREENWALD Richard Greenwald is a Senior Executive with more than twenty-five years of national experience leading large municipal initiatives and nonprofit social services organizations. Committed to public/private entrepreneurial solutions that affect the nation’s most vulnerable. Mr. Greenwald has an outstanding track-record leading varied, large-scale initiatives of increased prominence and complexity. He has specific expertise successfully assessing and navigating complex business and organizational environments; leading, convening, and managing multiple stakeholder groups aligned to common strategic goals; refining systems and implementing responsive adjustments; and following-up with staff and partners to guarantee success. A MESSAGE FROM ERIC GARCETTI, MAYOR OF LOS ANGELES >> This program is offered in partnership with Comunitas, an organization of the Brazilian civil society that aims to contribute to the improvement of corporate social investment and encourage private sector participation in the social and economic development of the country. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close