Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Breadcrumb Home About Global Cornell Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Global stories of caring and compassion. We asked the Cornell community to share inspiring stories at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. We received meaningful stories that demonstrated the power of human connection, even in a time of social distancing. Stories have been preserved as part of the University Archives. Quarantine Buddy App Sam Brickman and Jordyn Goldzweig 137 countries around the globe As this pandemic rages on, it’s easy for some to feel lonely or isolated. Weill Cornell Medicine Celebrates with Virtual Commencement New York City Like more than half of Weill Cornell Medicine’s Class of 2020, Dr. Kevin Ackerman chose to graduate early to be of service to New York City’s health care system during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senior Tracks COVID-19 Cases in Florida Hometown Dalton Price, student Florida As a college senior with an interest in infectious diseases, Dalton Price ’20 said it was completely obvious he would help fight the COVID-19 pandemic, especially when Cornell switched to virtual instruction and he headed home to Florida. Since leaving campus, Price has spent about 25 hours per week–even while wrapping up exams and projects–working with the Florida Department of Health in Volusia County to track cases and educate people about the virus. Einaudi Center Staff Member Sews Masks with African Fabrics Indira White Ithaca, New York As the need for protective face masks grew, Indira White knew she could use her love for sewing for good. As the Einaudi Center’s front office coordinator, she gave her masks a unique twist. “Most of the materials used to make these face masks came from Zambia and Ghana,” said Indira. Her friend and colleague—Jackie Sayegh, program manager of the Institute for African Development—visits Africa often and brings back fabric for Indira from each visit. Access Fund Eased Pandemic’s Burden on Students Access Fund Cornell University Raven Schwam-Curtis ’20 was still confronted with financial and emotional disruption when the pandemic forced Cornell to abruptly suspend classes in mid-March. Raven bid rushed goodbyes to friends and mentors, packed all her belongings into a handful of boxes, and boarded a nearly empty flight home to Houston–incurring significant unexpected expenses. Cornell and DFA Donate Milk to Regional Food Banks Cornell Dairy Stocking Hall For families in western and central New York hurt by severe economic conditions brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, relief is on the way–in the form of fresh, cold milk, delivered to local food banks. The milk donations are courtesy of the Dairy Farmers of America (DFA) cooperative in Syracuse; the Cornell Dairy processing plant in Stocking Hall; and 155 lactating cows at the Teaching Dairy Barn, part of Cornell’s College of Veterinary Medicine. Cornell Biologists Grow, Donate Plant Kits to Local Families Margaret Frank, faculty Ithaca, New York For several weeks, nearly 1,200 seedlings grew in rows of paper cups covering the surfaces of Margaret Frank’s backyard greenhouse. As an assistant professor of plant biology in Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Frank is used to working with dozens of tomato plants in her on-campus lab. These potted plants, however, were destined for another experiment. Cornellians Help Keep Loaves and Fishes Going During Pandemic Volunteers Tompkins County By March 13, it seemed clear that the COVID-19 pandemic would force Loaves and Fishes of Tompkins County to shut its doors to the public. Thanks to careful planning, three days later the community kitchen had ramped up to continue its free meal service to the needy–now packaged to go. Within a month, the number of meals provided had more than doubled, from 450 to almost 1,100 per week. Cornell Health Physician Educates Youth Through ‘Health-Hop’ Dr. John Clarke Cornell Health Dr. John Clarke started writing rap songs when he was eight years old and never stopped. Though he pursued a career in medicine rather than music, Clarke—director of occupational medicine at Cornell Health—still writes, produces, and performs rap music on health-related topics. Department of Music Shares Performances Online Malcolm Bilson and others Virtually In lieu of its normally full slate of live events, the Department of Music is sharing a variety of faculty and student projects on a new Quarantunes page. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Next page ›› Last page Last » Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance