Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Power of Music Education -- Beijing Education Panel Series IX Events Past Event The Power of Music Education -- Beijing Education Panel Series IX Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 20, 2019 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Parents and educators who understand the importance of art in a child's development should look very closely at the benefits of music, and how its properties can stimulate enlightenment and personal growth from an early age. This is highly evident in a 1998 British biographical film which depicts the lives of the two highly-talented du Pré sisters – Jackie, who played the cello; and Hillary, the flute. The film shows how their mother, a piano teacher, taught her daughters in quite novel ways, such as through entertaining music games, piano improvisations and body movements. These methods became the girls' "oxygen" every day, and were essentially what inspired Jackie in particular to become one of the greatest musicians of all time. On July 20, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the ninth panel discussion of the Center's Education Panel Series, followed by a recital showcase. This event will help you find out more about this child-centered approach to music enlightenment. Using some of the world's most progressive teaching methods in music, speakers will stimulate the children's imagination and creative senses; and help them fall in love with music and form their own ideas about what makes it all so beautiful. Program Violin: Yujie He Vocal: Julie Sandfort, Shuhuan Peng Piano: Gregory Ristow, Shuhuan Peng Ukulele: Julie Sandfort 1. Ella Fitzgerald, Gotta Pebble in My Shoe 2. Gordon Dickinson, Will There Really Be A Morning? 3. Rodgers & Hammerstein, My Favorite Things 4. Folk Song, Apple Tree 5. John Lennon, Imagine 6. Kreisler, Love's Joy 7. Saint Saens, Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso Musicians Shuhuan PENG She holds an M.A. in Music and Music Education from Columbia University, and has studied closely with Richard Pearson Thomas and Zosha Di Castri in Composition, Mark Shapiro in Conducting, Randall Allsup and Lori Custodero in Pedagogy (Creativity/Early Childhood), Jeanne Goffi-Fynn and János Klézli in Vocal Pedagogy, Cynthia Lilley, Leslie Upchurch and Silvia Del Bianco in Dalcroze method, Wolfgang Hartmann in Orff method, Katalin Kiss in Kodály method. She also received her Bachelors at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing. Her professional experience in the art management realms include Multimedia Concert: Symphony of Colors: Terracotta, which had its world premiere at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Farewell My Concubine, performed by pianist Yuja Wang, Martial Arts Trilogy, performed by the Slovenian Philharmonic Orchestra, and Oedipus the King, at the National Centre for the Performing Arts in Beijing. As a performer, Shuhuan has worked with world-renowned conductors such as Charles Dutoit, Mark Shapiro, Jeffrey Meyers, Peter Erdei and Yu Long, and with organizations such as China Philharmonic Orchestra, The Cecilia Chorus of New York with Orchestra, and Jiangsu Province Kun Opera. These performances took place in venues from Asia to North America, including the United Nations in New York, Carnegie Hall, National Centre for the Performing Arts, and Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts. Julie Sandfort As a singer and music educator, Julie Sandfort has performed and taught around the United States and across the globe, including parts of South Africa, China, and Europe. She is a fierce advocate for young people's creative agency and works to cultivate meaningful musical experiences using authentic music from both around the world and children's own homes. Classically trained in vocal performance and schooled in healthy vocal pedagogy, she has also studied instrumental pedagogy and performs with piano and ukulele. Julie holds an M.A. in Music and Music Education from Teachers College, Columbia University and a B.A. in Music Performance from Goucher College. Gregory Ristow He is active internationally as a teacher of Dalcroze Eurhythmics, a method of music education that teaches music through movement. He has given workshops on Eurhythmics around the United States and abroad, including at numerous conferences for music educators and at conferences of the Dalcroze Society of America. His writing on Eurhythmics appears in the Journal of Music Theory Pedagogy, the American Dalcroze Journal, Being Music (The Canadian Dalcroze Journal), and Theory and Practice. He has sung professionally with Quire Cleveland, Cleveland Chamber Choir, Mercury Baroque and the Houston Chamber Choir and conducted professionally as artistic director of Encore Vocal Arts in Indianapolis, and as a guest conductor with the Indianapolis Chamber Orchestra, Voices: A Professional Chamber Choir (Rochester, NY). He holds the master's degree in music theory pedagogy, master's and doctoral degree in choral conducting from the Eastman School of Music. At the Oberlin College Conservatory of Music where he conducts the Oberlin College Choir and Musical Union and teaches courses in conducting and Dalcroze Eurhythmics. His teaching is influenced by an unusually broad background of training as well as a close study of Dalcroze's own pedagogical writing. He holds the Dalcroze Certificate from the Juilliard School. Yujie HE Yujie Molly He is a young Chinese violinist who is passionate to share her ideas and music with her audience. As a prizewinner of Bales violin competition and Adelphi Young Artist competition, she has been invited to perform in major venues in the US, Italy, Austria and China. Recently, she earned her Master of music degree at Juilliard under the tutelage of Catherine Cho and earned her Bachelor of music degree from New England Conservatory. An avid chamber musician, she has attended many festivals such as Kneisel Hall, Music Academy of the West, Aspen Music Festival and School, Heifetz Institute and New York String Seminar. She has worked closely with Ronald Copes, Joel Smirnoff, Sylvia Rosenberg, etc. Yujie found herself been nourished by Chinese and American cultures, and been inspired by many great artists. In 2018, she launched a year-long project named “Stories behind the folk music", performing in several major public libraries and hospitals in New York and China, introducing Chinese folk music to the community. She is also passionate about exploring contemporary Chinese music and has premiered a few works in recent years. While being heard up as a violinist of note, Yujie has also served in support roles undergirding musical organization. Agenda 2:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Registration 3:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Panel discussion / Concert / Q&A 4:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Networking Time Notice The event will be in Chinese and English. During the event, please ensure your children not to walk around or make noise. Otherwise, we would have to ask you to temporarily leave the hall. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close