Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Beijing Entrepreneurship Panel Series VIII: The future of immersive entertainment Events Past Event Beijing Entrepreneurship Panel Series VIII: The future of immersive entertainment Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 2, 2019 2:30 PM - 4:30 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing In recent years, immersive entertainment is becoming more than a frequently-used term, but a scene that is penetrating into offline entertainment market. How could we create and offer valuable entertainment experiences and capture its business opportunities? On November 2, please join Columbia Global Centers | Beijing at the eighth discussion of the Center's Entrepreneurship Panel Series, focusing on the status quo and future of global immersive entertainment industry. We cordially invite practitioners and professionals in VRAR, exhibition, theater, movie, escape game, IP, real estate, cultural tourism, and investment and anyone who is interested to participate. A special thank to Delicia KUANG SOA '13. Panelists Zhe Muso FAN GSAPP '15 Muso (Zhe Fan) worked as an Architect and Urban Designer at ATKINS for large-scale real estate development in China, developed on cutting edge immersive technologies for Google and McKinsey, founded the US branch of Lotus Lee Drama Studio and Lotus Lee Foundation. As a Broadway insider, he invested in Hadestown, which won 8 Tony Awards including 2019 Best Musical. He earned a Master of Science degree from the Graduate School of Architecture Planning and Preservation at Columbia University and an MBA from Smartly. He is the founder and CEO of NeXT SCENE and lead the team published the Chinese version of "Immersive Design Industry 2019 Annual Report". Jingshu CHEN Jingshu is a co-founder of VeeR VR (veer.tv), and leads VeeR's content, product and operation efforts. VeeR VR is a premium content distribution platform, available on all major online VR platforms as well as 100+ Location Based Entertainment channels. Since 2016, VeeR has helped thousands of VR creators around the world create, distribute and monetize VR entertainment content. Jingshu is also the Forbes 30U30 Asia 2018 nominee. Xiao ZHOU Zhou is CEO of Gravity Entertainment Group, whose immersive entertainment products have brought together more than millions of visitors and won many awards both domestically and overseas. Their shows combine with movies, theaters, games, and immersive performances and provide visitors a true interaction with the "characters" in the story under a scene that is 100% replicated from the orginal work. Shouchun MI China Escape Game Alliance (ChinaEGA.com) is founded by Mr. Daza (打杂大人) since October, 2012. It is the biggest community of Chinese escape room industry with over 2,000 owners and 100w enthusiasts members. The mission of China EGA is to facilitate China real-life game industry growth by integrating resource and knowledge sharing. The annual Chinese Escape Game Alliance Industry Summit is the one and only conference in China and has been held for three years. On March 15th every year, owners and industry expert will gather and share fresh perspective and trend of real-life game. In this annual event, EGA also host the National Escape Room Awards with over 45,000 enthusiasts vote and attending the survey. The award not only highlights games specialize in different aspect (tech, narrative, actors), but also commend the ideas with unique creativity. It helps promote the underrated good games and encourage more innovation in the industry. Heming ZHANG Zhang is senior researcher at the CAUPD Planning and Design Consultants Co., and she graduated from Parsons School of Design. Heming is committed to the research about the transforms of urban cultural Innovations and life style, the new models of public participation, cultural scene design and operation, and the utilization of new media in urban renewal process. Meanwhile, Heming as a consultant is working on master planning of smart cities and new technologies, analysis of smart industry and so on. Agenda 2:00 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Registration 2:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Keynote speeches 3:30 p.m. - 4:15 p.m. Panel discussion on immersive entertainment 4:15 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Q&A Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close