Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to main content Open menu Utility Menu Students Explore Abroad Choose Texas Global Learning On Campus Study English Immigration Advising Faculty & Staff Global Engagement Opportunities Department and Staff Resources International Scholars Global Community Alumni and Giving Global Programs and Innovation International Education Week Mexico Global Gateway Passport Services Request a Delegation Visit About About Texas Global Senior Vice Provost Welcome Global Engagement & Strategy Reports and Statistics Global Rankings Leadership & Staff Careers Open add menu Global Offices Texas Global partners with faculty, departments, colleges and schools across the university to advance UT Austin’s mission and enhance its international reputation. Global Connections on Campus The depth and scope of UT’s global academics are evident in the vast network of centers, programs and organizations dedicated to international scholarship, research, creative activity and teaching. Global Research and Creative Activity UT faculty engage in research and creative activities on every continent, advancing UT Austin’s academic mission and global impact. Newsroom Events Contact Us Alumni and Giving Donate Open Search form You are here Home Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources Updated May 18, 2022 Information for International Students and Scholars Stay informed on immigration updates and remote resources available to international students and scholars. Education Abroad COVID-19 Information and Resources Find the latest information, frequently asked questions, and resources related to Education Abroad and COVID-19. Protect Texas Together Visit protect.utexas.edu for the latest updates and guidance from the university, including information about vaccine distribution. Travel Guidance During the COVID-19 Pandemic International Travel All international travel must be registered with On Call International (UT System requirement). Employees and student travelers who are not participating in approved education abroad programs will register through the UT Austin International Travel Registry (UTAITR). Students participating in approved education abroad programs will register through the MyAbroad portal. By registering your travel, you will be supported by Texas Global Risk and Safety staff, who can assist you in case of emergencies abroad. On Call International provides extensive coverage for UT travelers who experience emergencies abroad, to include coverage for quarantining in the host country and assistance in seeking medical diagnoses of and treatment for COVID-19. Once you are registered with On Call, you will also have access to their pre-departure itinerary reviews and comprehensive destination intelligence to help you prepare for the realities on-site. Health and Safety The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) maintains the requirements to enter the United States. For more information on CDC international travel guidance, visit International Travel During COVID-19 and Department of Homeland Security. UT Austin is following CDC international travel guidance to include information and terminology regarding vaccinations, quarantine/self-isolation, and testing. Business travel by unvaccinated employees is permissible but not recommended consistent with CDC guidance. All travelers must review the following information designed to prioritize your health and safety, along with the health of our campus community. COVID-19 Pre-Departure and Arrival Expectations for International Travelers Texas Global Health and Safety Resources Students and employees can access testing for free through the UT Proactive Community Testing. As a reminder, the university may not require individuals to receive a COVID-19 vaccine nor inquire about an individual’s vaccine status, other than healthcare professionals in order to provide appropriate care or for the purposes of contact tracing. Read more on Protect Texas Together. Employees who believe they may have been exposed to COVID-19 will report to the Occupational Health Program (OHP) Students who believe they have been exposed to COVID-19 will report to University Health Services (UHS). Visitors to Campus Visitors/researchers/scholars from abroad must be approved by the CSU / department. Delegations requiring engagement with multiple CSUs are coordinated by Texas Global and facilitated by completing the visiting delegation request form. All visitors will be subject to the same quarantine provisions as UT Austin approved travelers returning from abroad. Domestic Travel For information on domestic travel, see the University’s COVID-19 travel guidelines. Texas Global Communications to Campus Texas Global communications to campus concerning COVID-19 (coronavirus): Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP): F-1 Status Immigration Update July 7, 2020 Presidential Proclamation Concerning H-1B Visas June 23, 2020 Immigration Update: Presidential Proclamation June 3, 2020 Cancellation of All Education Abroad Programs Mar. 11, 2020 COVID-19 Update: France, Germany and Spain Travel Restrictions Mar. 10, 2020 COVID-19 Update: Italy Travel Restrictions Feb. 28, 2020 COVID-19 Update: Korea Travel Restrictions Feb. 25, 2020 Message of Support to our International Community Feb. 14, 2020 Message to UT Community: China Travel Restrictions Jan. 29, 2020 UHS Communications to Campus UHS communications to campus facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Make a Gift Contact 2400 Nueces Street Suite B Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-1211 8 a.m. – 5 p.m., Monday – Friday Passport Services 8 a.m. – 2 p.m. Monday - Friday More Information Careers Communications Emergency Support Information for Departments International Travel Policies Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Website Feedback © The University of Texas at Austin 2022