Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. PO and Procard Purchasing Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support The approved ways to spend money on behalf of the university are by PO, Marketplace Non-PO requests, and Procard. Emphasis is heavily on the PO. Almost everything can be purchased via Penn’s Marketplace (PO/Non-PO). To submit all PO and Marketplace payment requests to the Business Office, please use the Purchasing Request Form linked below. Also linked is a Purchasing one-pager designed to provide quick reference and helpful resources related to Purchasing at Penn. Penn Global Purchasing Request Form Purchasing One-Page Guide While PO and Non-POs are the preferred way, there is also the Purchasing Card Programs. The Purchasing Cards represent Penn's trust in its employees to safeguard and protect University Assets. As an authorized agent of the University, the cardholder assumes the responsibility for protection and proper use of the Purchasing card. PO or Procard? Below is our best guidance on when to use your procard or create a PO. Heavy emphasis on the PO. Go Back add_shopping_cart PO Go Back card_membership Procard All things related to using your procard. Go Back add_shopping_cart PO Go Back card_membership Procard All things related to using your procard. 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy