Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Columbia x Penn x Yale Undergraduate Art + Forum Events Past Event Columbia x Penn x Yale Undergraduate Art + Forum Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 26, 2020 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing Join us for the Art + forum to explore the multi-dimensional role of fine art in the public sphere. Art +, namely the interdisciplinary application of art in finance, business and tech, promotes reconsideration of the art world and its future potentials in the contemporary era. In this forum, we invite experts within the global art-related industries to discuss their perspectives on these innovative modes of art interactions. Our panelists include art historian, economist, senior management of auction house, etc. You will get a chance to: Identify the latest forms of Art + Finance, Art + Business and Art + High Tech. Recognize problems, challenges, and concerns of the traditional art market. Join the discussion on the post-pandemic art world going forward. Learn about ideas on art valuation and art investments. Network with like-minded individuals and engage in fruitful conversations with other art lovers. This forum is organized by Columbia Global Centers | Beijing and moderated by Columbia undergraduate student Abigale Wang CC '21, Penn undergraduate student Joey Zhong, and Yale undergraduate student Margaret Sun. Speakers Hsingyuan Tsao, Art Historian Yong FAN, Founder of Asia Institute of Art & Finance (AIAF) Wei ZHANG, Deputy Secretary General, Center for China & Globalization (CCG) Tri Vi Dang, Lecturer in Financial Economics at Columbia University Jian WANG, Prestigious Chinese Artist Zhongwei QIN, Head of Marketing, Communications, and Events in China at Christie's Andrew Low, Executive Creative Director, Ogilvy Beijing Orkan Telhan, Associate Professor of Fine Arts - Emerging Design Practices at University of Pennsylvania Moderators Abigale Wang, senior at Columbia University, studying Economics- Mathematics and Art History double majors. She is an incoming investment banking analyst at Bank of Nova Scotia New York office. Born to a family of art, Abigale is extremely passionate about exploring the multifaceted potential of visual art in relation to culture, history, finance, and high-tech. In 2018, Abigale Wang initiated a public art exhibition and lecture at Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. More than 110K people joined the livestream. Abigale Wang assisted to curate the art exhibition consisting of 266 works by Mr. Zhang Wenxin, who was among new China’s first generation of Soviet-trained artists. She also served as the host for the public lecture by the artist at DongYi Art Museum on 11/7/2020. Joey Zhong, first graduating class of design major student at University Pennsylvania, studying Design, minoring in Marketing, Music, and East Asian Studies. A passionate artist, Joey published a personal art book at the age of 15, hosted a personal art exhibition at Canton Provincial library at the age of 16, and founded an art NGO in Vancouver, Canada at the age of 17. Joey is also an active public speaker, sharing her personal and art stories in 30+ non-profit events internationally in the US, Canada, and China. Having studied under an interdisciplinary curriculum at Penn, Joey looks into social issues as a designer. Joey also explores the intersection between art, business and technology as she interned at Ogilvy, Mckinsey & CO and Tencent. Margaret Sun, class of 2023 at Yale University, studying Computing and the Arts. Looking into both technology and art history, Margaret is passionate about intercultural conversations conducted through different media of art, as well as the interactions between technology and art that speak to modernity. At Yale, Margaret led a group of 10 and curated an art exhibition themed Historical Trauma, featuring artworks of 8 Yale College students. The exhibition opening reception attracted 120+ Yale students and faculty. Through this event, Margaret is hoping to explore the business side of art both in the present and the future, to understand the art market as well as the trends technology brings in. Margaret is now taking a gap year in Beijing and interning at IDG Capital. Reminders Event language: Chinese This event opens only to students, alumni, and their parents of Columbia, Penn, and Yale. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close