Columbia University Columbia Global Reports Skip to navigation [n] Skip to content [c] Skip to footer [f] Twitter Facebook Instagram Email Search Navigation About Donate Books Events Subscribe Twitter Facebook Instagram Email Search Holy Lands Reviving Pluralism in the Middle East How did the world’s most tolerant region become the least harmonious place on the planet? The headlines from the Middle East these days are bad, characterized by violence, terror, and autocracy. Whatever hopes people may have for the region are being dashed over and over, in country after country. Nicolas Pelham, the veteran Middle East correspondent for The Economist, has witnessed much of the tragedy, but in Holy Lands he presents a strikingly original and startlingly optimistic argument. The Middle East was notably more tolerant than Western Europe during the nineteenth century because the Ottoman Empire permitted a high degree of religious pluralism and self-determination within its vast borders. European powers broke up the empire and tried to turn it into a collection of secular nation-states—a spectacular failure. Rulers turned religion into a force for nationalism, and the result has been ever increasing sectarian violence. The only solution, Pelham argues, is to accept the Middle East for the deeply religious region it is, and try to revive its venerable tradition of pluralism. Holy Lands is a work of vivid reportage—from Turkey and Iraq, Israel and Palestine, Abu Dhabi and Bahrain, Dubai and Jordan—that is animated by a big idea. It makes a region that is all too familiar from news reports feel fresh. ISBN: 9780990976349 Price: $13.99 E-book ISBN: 9780990976356 On Sale: April 12, 2016 Pages: 174 Share on Linked In Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Send via email Amazon Barnes & Noble Local Bookseller Subscribe to CGR Praise “It is rare to come across a book on the region that charts a positive path for the future; rarer still to find one that advocates religious leadership and pragmatic communalism as the means for reaching peace.... [Pelham] makes a powerful case that a regional alliance of overlapping millets, not connected with territorial boundaries, offers a better vision for restoring stability to the Middle East than the current agendas for conflict management.” —Jonathan Steele, The Guardian “A fine collection of essays—a rare combination of on-the-ground reportage and profound historical knowledge—that takes as its starting point the millet (religious sect) system of the Ottomans, who were more ethnically diverse and tolerant than their European contemporaries.... How [power] is used, and shared, is an urgent political challenge that needs to be met in this world, not deferred until the next one.” —Ian Black, The Guardian “Pelham offers impressively nuanced interpretations of entangled political rivalries and the hazy religious boundaries that crisscross the Middle East. Readers will find his investigation of the region's intolerance and aspirations for peace refreshing, particularly in the context of increasingly pessimistic headlines and political rhetoric.” —Publishers Weekly “A sound, accessible argument for why returning to the mixed-faith communities living among each other in the Ottoman model might just save the Middle East.... Pelham does not see only doom but rather a resurgence of pluralism as a natural, human response given the chance for peaceable community. A lively, succinct, nonpolemical study that will offer much thought for discussion.” — Kirkus Reviews, starred review “Can religion serve once again in the modern Middle East as the foundation for a meaningful pluralism as it did in the premodern Middle East? That is the question raised by this important book.” —Jonathan P. Berkey, The American Interest “This is a thoughtful response to the claim that the problems are insolvable or that the blame lies firmly on the doorstep of religious and ethnic strife.” —Library Journal Coverage On pluralism and light — The Economist Back to Pluralism in the Middle East — The Brian Lehrer Show Can Holy Lands Become Holy Democracies? — New America Weekly Interview with Author Nicolas Pelham on "Reviving Pluralism in the Middle East" — World Religion News Pluralism is necessary for peaceful & thriving societies in the Middle East — Qatar Tribune Frontline Club The Lowdown Al Jazeera | Inside Story - Does the Muslim world have the leaders it needs? Brookings Institution | Holy Lands: Reviving Pluralism in the Middle East In Conversation with Safwan Masri and Nicholas Lemann About the author Nicolas Pelham has written about the Middle East since 1992. He began as the editor of Middle East Times from Cairo before joining the BBC Arabic Service. He covered the Algerian civil war and the caprice of Colonel Qaddafi as the BBC’s correspondent in Rabat. In 2002 he joined Financial Times reporting on the downfall of first Saddam Hussein and then the America protectorate in Baghdad. For five years, he worked as International Crisis Group’s senior analyst producing briefings on the rise of Shiite rulers in Iraq and Lebanon, Sunni Islamists in Palestine, Bedouin in Sinai, and the Jewish religious right in Israel. Since 2010, he has reported on the region’s collapse for The Economist and New York Review of Books. He is the author of two previous books, A New Muslim Order (2008) on Arab Shiite rule and A History of the Middle East (2010) with Peter Mansfield. He lives in London. @NicolasPelham 5/11/2016, Jimmy So How the Next President Can Help the Middle East "It’s hardly surprising, given the mayhem and misery across the Middle East, that people who know and care about the region are scratching their heads trying to explain, never mind solve, its overarching problems," Ian Black, The Guardian's Middle East editor, wrote in his recent review of Holy Lands: Reviving Pluralism in the Middle East. There… more 4/19/2016, Nicolas Pelham Obama Can Nudge Saudis Toward Pluralism When President Obama goes to Riyadh on Thursday, he should meet not just the Al Sauds, but the Saudis the rulers deem politic to hide under a bushel. If he does so, he will discover a country which defies the western stereotype of a bland killjoy state, and away from the religious police preserves as variegated… more © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York 91 Claremont Avenue, Suite 515 New York, NY 10027 Site designed by Strick&Williams and developed by Enabled Labs Contact Us | Privacy Policy LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Instagram Email