Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Art, Artists, and Education in Contemporary Societies––China and U. S. Perspectives Events Past Event Art, Artists, and Education in Contemporary Societies––China and U. S. Perspectives Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo November 9, 2016 4:00 PM - 5:30 PM The Auditorium in the museum, the Central Academy of Fine Arts, 8, Huajiadinan street, Chaoyang District On November 9, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, in partnership with Columbia University School of the Arts and the Central Academy of Fine Arts (CAFA), will host a panel titled Art, Artists, and Education in Contemporary Societies––China and U.S. Perspectives. Following with the opening remarks being delivered by Lee C. Bollinger, President of Columbia University and Xinping Su, Vice President of CAFA; panelists including Carol Becker (Dean of School of the Arts, Columbia University), Bing Xu (Professor of CAFA) and Ji'nan Yin (Dean of School of Humanities, CAFA) will share their intellectual understandings and insights. Xiaoxia Song (Professor of CAFA) will be the moderator of the panel. We cordially invite you to join us and enjoy an afternoon of art discussion. Agenda: 4:00-4:10 Welcome Speech by Professor Xinping Su and Opening Remarks by Dr. Lee C.Bollinger 4:10-4:30 Speech by Dr. Carol Becker 4:20-4:25 Speech by Professor Bing Xu 4:25-4:30 Speech by Professor Ji'nan Yin 4:30-5:00 Panel discussion 5:00-5:25 Q&A 5:25-5:30 Closing remarks by Professor Bing Xu Sponsored by The Central Academy of Fine Arts Columbia University School of the Arts Columbia Global Centers | Beijing The event is free and open to the public. Registration is required. Lee C. Bollinger, President of Columbia University. He is a fellow of both the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society, and serves as a member of the Pulitzer Prize Board. Dr. Bollinger's books are widely published on legal and constitutional issues involving free speech and press. From November 1996 to 2002, Bollinger was the President of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. MORE Xinping Su, Vice President of the Central Academy of Fine Arts (CAFA), graduated from CAFA with MA (Department of Printmaking, Lithography). He has been appointed as Deputy Dean (1997) and Dean (2003) of CAFA Department of Printmaking, Deputy Dean(2007) and Dean (2009) of School of Fine Arts, CAFA. MORE Carol Becker, Dean of Faculty and Professor of the Arts at Columbia University School of the Arts. With research interests that range from feminist theory, American cultural history, the education of artists, art and social responsibility, to South African art and politics, she has published numerous articles and books on cultural criticism. MORE Bing Xu, world renowned artist, Professor at the Central Academy of Fine Arts. His most influential works are characterized by a creative use of scripts, words, and texts to show how our understanding of the world can be affected by them. MORE Ji'nan Yin, Dean of School of Humanities of the Central Academy of Fine Arts. He is an art historian, art critic, connoisseur with specialty in Chinese pre-modern art works. Professor Yin received his MA in Art History (Appraisal for Chinese pre-modern art works) from the Central Academy of Fine Arts in 1987, and his BA in Archeology from Peking University in 1982. MORE Xiaoxia Song, Professor at the Central Academy of Fine Arts. She is also the Director of Research Institute at the Central Academy of Fine Arts. She received her M.A in 1988 in Chinese Language Studies and Classical Chinese Literature from Peking University. In 2008, Professor Song received her Ph.D in Art History from School of Humanities of the Central Academy of Fine Arts. MORE Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close