Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Health Considerations Health Considerations EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs Study abroad participants should consider these health issues as they make plans for their trip: Ability/Disability Issues Allergies Contraceptives Culture Shock Dental Care Dietary Concerns Emergency Resources Exercise Eyeglass Prescription Gender-Sensitive Health Care Health Advisories Hepatitis Protection Immunizations Insurance Medications/Medical Supplies Psychological Issues Reverse Culture Shock Regional Health Issues Sexuality Sleep Patterns Smoking Support Networks, Friends and Family Tips for Staying Healthy Abroad Here are some guidelines to prepare for a safe and healthy trip Healthy Practices Eat healthy foods, stay hydrated, and get plenty of exercise and enough sleep. Physicals and Checkups Get a complete physical, eye exam and dental checkup before going abroad. Talk to your doctor about any specific health concerns or conditions you may have before you travel. Mental and Physical Health Be clear about your health needs when applying for a program and making housing arrangements. Describe allergies, disabilities, psychological treatments, dietary requirements and medical needs so adequate arrangements can be made. Resources and services for people with disabilities vary widely by country and region. If you have a disability or special need, identify it and understand ahead of time exactly what accommodations can and will be made. Allergies and Medical Conditions Carry medical-alert identification with you at all times. If you are allergic to penicillin or have any other medical conditions that require emergency care, carry some kind of identification, card, tag or bracelet on your person at all times. The medical-alert identification should state the specific nature of the problem and explain what must or must not be done if you’re unable to communicate (e.g., in case of unconsciousness). Infectious Diseases and Immunizations Get the appropriate shots and pills for any infectious disease epidemic in the countries to which you will be traveling. If immunizations are required, you need to get those before you leave Many immunizations are administered as a series and some vaccinations are not routinely given by your family physician. You may be expected to go to a clinic specializing in travel medicine. Give yourself plenty of time to complete the necessary immunizations. Check the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Website for information about health considerations that will affect your time abroad. Food and Water Safety Drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated if you get diarrhea or food poisoning. Poor refrigeration, undercooked meat, poor water supply and outdoor vendors could pose problems related to food contamination. It is a good idea to take an over-the-counter anti-diarrhea medication with you just in case. See a doctor if your condition worsens. Prescriptions Bring enough of your prescription medications to last the duration of your trip. You also should consider bringing an extra supply in case of an unexpected delay getting home. Get a doctor’s signed prescription for any medication you have to take abroad and may need to have refilled. Some prescriptions may need to be translated to fill them abroad. Carry prescriptions in their labeled containers because many countries have strict narcotic trafficking laws and may be suspicious of pills in an unlabeled bottle. Include your glasses or contact lenses prescription, but bring an extra pair of glasses just in case. You also should plan to take any over-the-counter medications you normally use at home since these items might not be available overseas. These might include pain relievers, cold/flu/allergy medications, and anti-diarrhea or upset stomach treatments. Getting Medical Care Abroad Medical care will vary from country to country. In some places, it will be similar to the type of care you would receive in the United States. In other countries, finding an English-speaking doctor or medical facility could be difficult. If you need medical care overseas, ask your program administrator for recommended physicians, hospitals and dentists. This is usually covered in your on-site orientation once abroad. Make clear your expectations for high standards of hygiene and care. Keep in mind that most medical services and doctors require advance payments for consultation and services, so you may need a credit card for emergencies. Keep receipts for submitting a reimbursement claim upon your return to the United States. Resources from the Council on International Educational Exchange were used to compile the information above. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT