Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Future of Museums in the Age of Pandemics Events Past Event The Future of Museums in the Age of Pandemics Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo May 25, 2021 6:30 PM - 7:30 PM Online With the outbreak of Covid-19, 95% of museums across the world were forced to close their doors. Commemorating World Museums Day, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai invites you to a panel discussion with distinguished museum leaders to address how museums have creatively dealt with the challenges of the pandemic. Panelists will showcase strategies for exhibiting their collections, reaching audiences globally and nationally to fulfill their mandate of cultural access and public education, building new skills, and developing new models for future sustainability. Panelists: - Tasneem Zakaria Mehta, Managing Trustee and Honorary Director, Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum, Mumbai - Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Director General, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, Mumbai - Douglas Hegley, Chief Digital Officer, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York Moderator: Ravina Aggarwal, Director, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai About the Speakers: Tasneem Zakaria Mehta is the Managing Trustee and Honorary Director of Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum, Mumbai and Former Vice Chairman and Mumbai Convenor, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. Ms. Mehta is an art historian, conservationist, writer, curator and designer who has successfully pioneered the revival and restoration of several cultural sites in Mumbai. She has conceptualized, curated, designed and implemented the restoration and revitalization of the Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum and its ongoing exhibitions, education and outreach programmes. The museum has won UNESCO’s 2005 Asia Pacific ‘Award of Excellence’ and been nominated for several awards for its outstanding work. Ms. Mehta is a member of the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art, New York and has served on several Indian museum boards and government committees for art and culture. She was a founding trustee of the Kochi Biennale Foundation and continues to be an advisor, and was the CII Chair for Culture in 2011 and presented an exhibition of Indian Art at Davos the same year. She was selected as a Mumbai Hero by Mumbai Mirror and has received several awards. Harvard University included her in a list of 25 women who have made an outstanding public contribution in India. Sabyasachi Mukherjee is Director General of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS Museum), Mumbai and also Director of the Postgraduate (Diploma) Programme in Museology and Art Conservation at CSMVS Institute, University of Mumbai. Under his leadership from 2007, CSMVS has undergone extensive modernisation, including refurbishment of the museum’s main building and the establishment of a conservation centre, a new Children’s Museum, an institutional archive, new galleries and educational initiatives. In 2010, in recognition of his initiatives,UNESCO awarded the museum the 2010 Asia-Pacific Heritage Award for Cultural Heritage Conservation. He has organised numerous art exhibitions and international shows and has overseen publications, conservation projects, exchange programmes and archive projects in partnership with museums worldwide. A frequent lecturer and active member of many professional committees, more particularly, the Bizot Group, he has also been a fellow of the Nehru Trust and the Salzburg Global Seminar. Mr. Mukherjee is a recipient of several awards, and has been conferred with the ‘Special Jury Mention Award’ from the Bombay Management Association, and an honorary degree from the University of Edinburgh in recognition of his contributions towards the preservation of Indian culture and transforming CSMVS into a vibrant cultural catalyst in Mumbai. Douglas Hegley is Chief Digital Officer at The Metropolitan Museum of Art and has been at the forefront of digital transformation work in the cultural heritage sector for nearly 25 years. With a background in psychology, Mr. Hegley uses a human-centered approach that always puts people first. During his career he has helped create collaborative technology operations to deliver engaging digital content. That work started out in 1997 at The Met, and continued at the Minneapolis Institute of Art in 2011 as the Chief Digital Officer, where he set the vision and strategy for digital media and technology, while also working on new leadership models, strategic planning, and cross-functional collaboration. In 2020, he returned to The Met as the Chief Digital Officer. Mr. Hegley is a strong advocate for productive and transformative organizational change, keeping pace with technology innovation and new business models. He has been recognized by his peers as a leader in the field, is a frequent public speaker, and has served on boards and committees at city, state, regional and national levels. Ravina Aggarwal has been the Director of the Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai since 2015. She is a sociocultural anthropologist with a doctoral degree from Indiana University in 1994. Dr. Aggarwal taught in the Department of Anthropology at Smith College, where she became a tenured faculty member. Her research is based on extensive fieldwork in the Himalayas and her areas of study and teaching included political anthropology, peace-building, cultural studies, gender, and development. Prior to joining the Mumbai Center, Dr. Aggarwal worked at the Ford Foundation’s New Delhi office from 2007-2015, where she was responsible for strategic planning and grant-making for programs on development, social justice and public policy, with a focus on the fields of education, media and information technology, and arts and culture. She serves on the Advisory Board of the Mumbai-based Urban Design Research Institute and is one of the two founders of the Ladakh Arts and Media Organisation. Dr. Aggarwal is the author of several publications, including Beyond Lines of Control: Performing the Border in Ladakh, India (Duke University Press, Seagull Books) and the editor of Into the High Ranges (Penguin India) and Forsaking Paradise (Katha). She has recently completed Songbird (forthcoming Zubaan), a mystery novel for young adults set in the Himalayas. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close