Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Qi Hong, GSAS'21, writes about how her experiences as an intern changed her life Beijing Qi Hong, GSAS'21, writes about how her experiences as an intern changed her life Qi recounts the rewarding experiences and valuable lessons learned during her summer in Beijing. June 10, 2020 Two years ago, I finished a spring semester at Barnard College as a VISP student and came back to Beijing, China. Vaguely did I feel Barnard and Columbia had changed my life, the only sure thing for me was to maintain the connections with my friends, professors, and the community in New York City. As soon as having settled down, I immediately started my internship at Columbia Global Centers | Beijing. Little did I know how much this six-month internship would surprise me. “Columbia Beijing Summer,” which encapsulated a wide array of events, opened up my mind and saw through my potentialities. Indeed, sustaining existing connections were vital, yet CGC Beijing helped me achieve more: here, you could, and should, meet new people, learn new skills, endeavor for new knowledge, and build new connections. I came to know and be part of the impressively productive and well-organized team at CGC Beijing. All the employees put trust in every intern and exemplified as the walking models of prudence, intelligence, and diligence. There, if I intended to turn my thoughts into real words for publicization, I must take care of every detail of it. I still remember every time before handing in my writings to my supervisor, I must proofread every line for, say, at least three times to make sure there were no typos, no flaws. It was not a surprise that, later on, this came as a habit whenever I wrote anything. Back then, as a college junior, I was so perplexed by the possibilities and uncertainties of my future. Who would I become? What kind of career should I pursue? CGC Beijing responded to my puzzles with challenges and opportunities. I was a tyro translator, a consecutive interpreter (I had received professional training for both in college), but I could also be a reporter, a writer, and even participate in a curating program. CGC Beijing is a place where people from different careers and educational backgrounds gather together for a common goal. These experienced seniors guided me with their kindness and wisdom to explore my future potentialities. That summer also brought me into the vast, unlimited territory of knowledge. From Prof. Lipkin’s talk on epistemology to the ICLS conference addressing world literature and the Bandung conference in 1955, I grabbed a sense of what the world-leading scholars were looking into. I talked with many professors and translated for them. Some of them later became my professors at Columbia, and many a time, we still recalled our incredible summer in Beijing, 2018. Moreover, the information I have attained in these events, for example, the basic knowledge of epistemology from Prof. Lipkin's talk, recurred aptly in my mind during the COVID-19 pandemic. When the summer ended, I walked away from CGC Beijing with a brand-new self. I developed substantial skills, made new connections with people to whom I should always apprentice, and I also got acknowledged by my CGC cohorts because of the contributions I had made. For me, that summer was a time when all my wildest dreams became palpable: I was projecting into a future that I had been longed-for. Even nowadays, CGC Beijing still lingers in my mind: its crystal glass wall shining under the summer sun and its office colored by a blue of self-possession. I remember the time we hang out when we nailed an event, wandering the avenues in Zhongguancun after the night fell down. There are so many good memories that would bring about a smile with tears. I always know CGC Beijing has transformed my life; and here, these words are way less than enough to behold my sincere appreciation. Tags Beijing Stories CGC Stories: Students News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close