Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Global Main navigation Home About Welcome Organizational Chart Global Engagement Global Positioning Strategy Guiding Principles for International Initiatives Guide for Responsible International Activities Managing Foreign Influence Locations Global Presence Resources Faculty Students Corporate Partnerships Alumni and Giving Georgia Tech Fact Book External Review New Initiatives User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Global Presence Breadcrumb Home Georgia Tech-Lorraine The Georgia Tech-Lorraine (GTL) campus offers year-round undergraduate and graduate degree programs. Founded in 1990, Georgia Tech's European campus, located in historic Metz, France, is a 90-minute train ride from Paris via high speed train. Georgia Tech-Lorraine provides students from around the world the opportunity to obtain a Georgia Tech degree by taking courses taught in English by Georgia Tech faculty assigned to the campus. GTL is also the site of a unique joint international laboratory – the UMI 2958 GT-CNRS – between Georgia Tech and the French National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS). The Institut Lafayette, a center for innovation in optoelectronics was inaugurated in 2015, completing Georgia Tech's goal of establishing a European base for academics, research and innovation. Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering offers qualified students enrolled at Georgia Tech the opportunity to pursue their master's degree in Shenzhen, China. Courses are taught in English by Georgia Tech faculty assigned to the Chinese campus which is located in one of the fastest-growing cities of Asia, a technological epicenter sometimes referred to as the Silicon Valley of China. Surrounding SZVUP, is the Shenzhen High-Tech Industrial Park, housing numerous multinational companies where Georgia Tech-Shenzhen students can pursue co-op or internship opportunities within walking distance of their classrooms. On December 2, 2016, Georgia Tech, Tianjin University and Shenzhen government signed a 3-party agreement to establish a Georgia Tech Tianjin University Shenzhen Institute (GTSI). Leveraging the education and research expertise of Georgia Tech and Tianjin University, the high-tech and innovative environment of Shenzhen, GTSI aims to become a world-class institution with strong support from the Shenzhen government. Financial resources provided by the Shenzhen government include land, buildings, startup funding, annual subsidy, as well as research center support. Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Latin America Center Panama The Georgia Tech Panama Logistics Innovation and Research Center focuses mainly on logistics and trade. Located in Panama City, Panama, the Center has three core thrusts: applied research, education and competitiveness. The strategic objectives of the Center are to improve the logistics performance of the country and to aid in developing the logistics and trade capabilities that will enable Panama to become the trade hub of the Americas. In 2017, Georgia Tech signed an agreement with Universidad Tecnológica de Panamá to create a joint Center for Research, Education, and Innovation. Georgia Tech Panama Logistics Innovation and Research Center Asia Centers China The Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering, a joint department of Georgia Tech's College of Engineering and Emory University's School of Medicine, offers a PhD in biomedical engineering conferred jointly with Peking University. The unique program is designed for students who want to learn and work in a global economy and in global health settings. Program graduates are prepared to become world leaders of innovation who can contribute to cultural, political, economic, and health concerns in their home countries and around the world. Georgia Tech / Emory / Peking University Biomedical Engineering Ph.D. Program Singapore The most prominent feature of the Georgia Tech-Singapore collaboration is the establishment of a joint research initiative called the Centre for Next Generation Logistics (C4NGL) in 2015. C4NGL is a collaboration between Georgia Institute of Technology (GT) and the National University of Singapore (NUS) that offers research expertise in simulation, modelling, and optimization in logistics and supply chain management systems. C4NGL's role is to deliver cutting-edge systems design, research and developmental capabilities in general business, particularly in logistics and supply chain management or engineering related industries, for Singapore and Asia. Georgia Tech is also a founding member of The Logistics Institute Asia-Pacific (TLIAP) with NUS. Georgia Tech Center for Next Generation Logistics Middle East and North Africa (MENA) MENA Region Georgia Tech has been working with various educational institutions and corporations in the MENA region for more than a decade. The unique challenges within the region provides a space for technological and educational innovations by researchers, students, and faculty. These efforts have resulted in a number of programs and partnerships that are mutually beneficial and fits well within Georgia Tech’s 25-year strategic vision, especially the global impact and footprint of the Institute. Some of these programs are students and faculty centric while others are research and entrepreneurship centric. Furthermore, Georgia Tech delivered degree programs to certain cohorts of students in MENA. So far, these programs have had a positive impact on our campus, students, and faculty in Atlanta as well as hundreds of students and multiple organizations in MENA. We are anticipating an exponential growth of these programs and partnerships and we look forward to the next decade making an impact in such a strategic region. For more information, please contact Dr. Ghassan AlRegib Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 USA 404.894.7477 Office of the Vice Provost for International Initiatives Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN