Skip to main content Home Main navigation Get Started Main Travel Submenu Trigger Risk Ratings Country Guides Pre-Departure Support Submenu Trigger Pre-Departure Orientations & Consultations Register Travel Submenu Trigger Registering Groups & Others Travel Registration FAQs Policies & Requirements Submenu Trigger Graduate Student Travel Policy Harvard College Travel Policy Student Pre-departure Requirements Forms & Checklists Submenu Trigger Health Clearance FAQs Visas Travel Advice Emergency Support Submenu Trigger Assistance App Eligibility Emergency Response Program Services Emergency Response FAQs Get Your Membership Card Request Proof of Coverage Personal Travel Plan Activities Submenu Trigger Program Development Submenu Trigger Approval Process Budgeting IT & Data Security Safety & Security Leading Student Groups Renting or Buying Space International Activity Census Submenu Trigger International Activity Census FAQs Employment Submenu Trigger Hiring & Staffing Options Finances Submenu Trigger Payments & Banking Taxes Insurance Legal Matters Submenu Trigger U.S. Laws Abroad Exports & Imports Contracts & Agreements Registering to Do Business Research Center Operations Contact Us Emergency Support Menu Get Started Search Search Emergency Support In case of emergency abroad, first call the local equivalent of 911 listed in the global 911 directory. You may also contact International SOS by phone at +1-617-998-0000 or through the Assistance App. IEMT Portal Access your International Emergency Management Team (IEMT) portal for information. Main Content Let your vision take you the distance Our guidance can enable your success. Whether you're planning a trip abroad or managing a project from afar, we offer tools and support to help you reach your international goals. Because it's not just about where you're going, it's how you get there. Get Started Our community is singular Our reach is global. Harvard University supports academic activity in every corner of the world, with a global footprint that is second to none. Here's a look at just a sampling of activities our office supports.... 14 k Registered Trips in 2019 166 Countries Visited in 2019 8 Harvard Global Offices Brazil With 2 Harvard offices, Brazil is a common destination for Harvard affiliates to study, research, and travel. View the GSS Country Snapshot China The world’s most populous country is also one of the most visited countries by registered Harvard travelers. View the GSS Country Snapshot India India is home to 3 Harvard offices and ranks in the top 10 destinations for registered Harvard trips. View the GSS Country Snapshot Mexico Mexico is home to the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies’ (DRCLAS) office in Mexico City. View the GSS Country Snapshot South Africa Following the 2017 opening of a Harvard office in Johannesburg, South Africa has become an increasingly popular location for affiliates to learn, research, and share knowledge. View the GSS Country Snapshot Tunisia Following the 2017 opening of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies’ (CMES) field office in Tunis, more and more Harvard affiliates have been traveling to Tunisia each year. View the GSS Country Snapshot United Kingdom The United Kingdom is one of the most popular locations for Harvard affiliates to study and research. View the GSS Country Snapshot For Global Insights Take it from an insider With any new endeavor, it helps to learn from someone who's been there. And when that someone is already part of your trusted community, even better. Find out how fellow students, staff, and faculty have been served by GSS. Previous Next To do high-impact global health research right, you need strong relationships with trusted partners in some of the most remote and challenging geographies around the world.... Pardis Sabeti, Professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, and Professor of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health GSS expertise has been invaluable to us in the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology as we administer funding for faculty archaeology projects worldwide. Karen Crabtree, Financial Administrator Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology We rely on GSS in many ways... risk assessment of local conditions, training faculty and staff who lead our programs, student pre-departure sessions, and emergency response... Rob Neugeboren, Dean of Students, Harvard Summer School GSS continues to be a key partner in managing our center’s office operations, employing staff, and receiving and managing international gifts to enable our programming. Emmanuel Akyeampong, Oppenheimer Faculty Director, Harvard University Center for African Studies I have no idea what we would have done without GSS…. We now mandate that everyone who travels for business register. Laura Maliszewski, Executive Director, Harvard Program in Therapeutic Science We partner with GSS to provide the best possible learning environment for our global Field Method courses to ensure we are mitigating risk.... Stephanie Galloway, Senior Director, Global Experience Office, Harvard Business School GSS has been extraordinarily helpful… navigating us through protocols and regulations in the host countries to ensure continuing productive work. William Fash, Bowditch Professor of Central American and Mexican Archaeology and Ethnology Featured Resources Previous Next news New Russia-related Sanctions and Impacts on University Research news Duo Blocks Authentications in OFAC-sanctioned Countries and Regions Page Register Your Travel Page Pre-Departure Support Page Visas advice Tips for Traveling with Medication news Coronavirus: Advice for Travelers Ready to Start? Let's Get Going We're here to help. Register your trip, or set up a time to meet with us so we can discuss your specific needs. Whatever your international goals, we look forward to helping you go far. Register Travel Schedule Consultation Stay Up To Date Email Address Please check the box below to proceed. Submit Footer menu About Us Contact Us Footer Legal © President and Fellows of Harvard College Trademark Harvard University Vice Provost for International Affairs Campus Services Privacy Disclosures Digital Accessibility