Skip to main content UCF Global Navigation Programs and Services All ProgramsIntensive English ProgramOnline English ProgramPathway ProgramsEnglish Speaking TestApply NowRequest InformationCurrent Students Services Travel Abroad UCF AbroadInternational Health and SafetyTravel RegistrationRestricted TravelIncident Report Students, Scholars and Professionals Prospective and New StudentsMaintaining F-1 and J-1 StatusTravel and ReentryEmploymentFunding Your EducationMeet with an Immigration AdvisorScholars and ProfessionalsForms and Files Global and Community Engagement Global Perspectives and International InitiativesPuerto Rico Research HubCenter for the Study of Human Trafficking and Modern SlaveryCommunity Initiatives About Our QuestResourcesForms and FilesMeet Our Team Give MyINTL Select LanguageArabicChinese (Simplified)DutchEnglishFrenchGermanHaitian CreoleItalianPortugueseRussianSpanishVietnamese Prospective and New Students Skip to Section Undergraduate and Graduate Students UCF Global Programs Certification of Finances Prearrival and Orientation Housing Graduate Hiring Paperwork Undergraduate and Graduate Students As one of the largest universities in the United States, the University of Central Florida is home to over 3,400 international students from 137 countries. UCF offers countless opportunities for learning, research, and engagement both in and out of the classroom. We are eager to welcome you to the vibrant community of Global Knights! 1APPLY FOR ADMISSION TO UCF Your admission to UCF starts with an application for admission which includes submitting the required application materials. UNDERGRADUATE Complete the undergraduate application online. The application fee is $31.00 USD. International students must declare a major for admission. Some programs will be limited-access programs, requiring an additional application or prerequisites for admission. Undergraduate Applicants should visit the International Applicants page on the Undergraduate Admissions website for a detailed description of requirements, documents, and items needed for your academic admission. GRADUATE Complete the graduate application online. The application fee is $31.00 USD. Some programs require a pre-application before submitting the online application. Graduate Applicants should check the website for information such as submission of transcript evaluations with GPA computation, Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores, Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score for those students whose first language is not English, and other requirements such as letters of recommendation or resume, which vary from program to program. For more information visit International Applicants page. APPLICATION DEADLINES Make sure you know the deadlines for submitting application materials. The university must receive the appropriate application forms and all supporting documents prior to this deadline. Fall Spring Summer Undergraduate March 1st September 1st January 1st Graduate January 15th July 1st November 1st Graduate (Transfer Students) March 1st September 1st December 15th MAILING ADDRESS FOR ACADEMIC APPLICATION MATERIALS Undergraduate Applicants Graduate Applicants University of Central Florida International Admissions Services Office of Undergraduate Admissions 12585 Gemini Boulevard S. Orlando, Florida 32816 United States of America University of Central Florida College of Graduate Studies 4365 Andromeda Loop N. Millican Hall, Room 230 Orlando, Florida 32816 United States of America 2REQUEST A FORM I-20 OR DS-2019 FROM UCF GLOBAL UCF Global will issue a Form I-20 or DS-2019 upon your request. This Form I-20 or DS-2019 will help you to successfully obtain your student visa or complete a SEVIS transfer to UCF. Your request should be submitted to UCF Global according to the following deadlines to allow sufficient processing time. DEADLINES TO REQUEST FORM I-20 OR DS-2019 Fall Spring Summer Applying From Abroad June 15th October 15th February 15th SEVIS Transfer August 1st December 1st May 1st FORM I-20 REQUEST All Form I-20 Requests must be submitted through the myINTL portal. To access myINTL, you will need your Network ID (NID) and password. If you do not know your NID or password, please visit myUCF and select “What is my NID?” CLICK HERE TO REQUEST A FORM I-20 REQUIRED DOCUMENTS Copy of Passport (passports must be valid for at least 6-months beyond your intended arrival into the United States) Copy of Dependent Passport (if applicable) Financial Documentation (view the chart of expected financial costs at UCF) Affidavit of Support (if applicable) TRANSFERRING YOUR SEVIS RECORD FROM ANOTHER U.S. INSTITUTION? We will also require: Transfer Clearance Form Current F-1 Visa or USCIS Notice of Action Most Recent Form I-94 Most Recent Form I-20 FORM DS-2019 REQUEST All Form DS-2019 Requests must be submitted through the myINTL portal. To access myINTL, you will need your Network ID (NID) and password. If you do not know your NID or password, please visit myUCF and select “What is my NID?” CLICK HERE TO REQUEST A FORM DS-2019 REQUIRED DOCUMENTS Copy of Passport (passports must be valid for at least 6-months beyond your intended arrival into the United States) Copy of Dependent Passport (if applicable) Financial Documentation (view the chart of expected financial costs at UCF) Affidavit of Support (if applicable) TRANSFERRING YOUR SEVIS RECORD FROM ANOTHER U.S. INSTITUTION? We will also require: Current J-1 Visa or USCIS Notice of Action Most Recent Form I-94 Most Recent Form DS-2019 UCF GLOBAL PROGRAMS Students applying to any of the UCF Global Programs can learn more about the different programs and apply online on the UCF Global Program webpage. PROGRAM INFORMATION & APPLICATION CERTIFICATION OF FINANCES One of the conditions to be eligible for a Form I-20 or DS-2019, is demonstrating sufficient funds readily available to a student to cover the cost of studying and living in the United States. As an international applicant to UCF, the immigration documents (including financial support) are not needed for an academic decision to be made on your application. If you would like to wait to submit these documents until after an admissions decision is made, that is not a problem. We encourage students to submit their immigration documents as early as possible to expedite the Form I-20 or DS-2019 issuance if admitted. ESTIMATED EXPENSES The following charts provide the estimated annual expenses for international students at the University of Central Florida. Students must submit financial documents demonstrating the amount listed for their program. Students who will bring their spouse and/or children to the U.S. as dependents in F-2 or J-2 status must show an additional $3,000 USD for each dependent. PER ACADEMIC YEAR Undergraduate Graduate MS Interactive Entertainment (FIEA) Executive MBA Professional MBA MS Data Analytics Doctor of Physical Therapy Master of Social Work Tuition and Fees**(Fall and Spring only) $18,083 $21,603 34,713 $28,923 $39,000 $29,040 $25,317 $42,986 Living Expenses (per year) $15,804 $15,804 $15,804 $15,804 $15,804 $15,804 $15,804 $15,804 Mandatory Health Insurance (per year) $3,320 $3,320 $3,320 $3,320 $3,320 $3,320 $3,320 $3,320 TOTAL $37,207 $40,727 $53,837 $48,047 $58,124 $48,164 $44,441 $62,110 * J-1 Degree-Seeking Students must show funding for the complete length of their program (the primary source of funding cannot be personal or family funds) ** Fees are subject to change without notice. Undergraduate tuition is based on 12 credit hours, while graduate tuition is based on 9 credit hours for fall and spring enrollment. Students may be required to enroll in additional credit hours per semester depending on their program schedule. Students should check with their academic department regarding enrollment requirements. Please note some programs may have different tuition and fee rates. For the 2020-2021 Tuition and Fee schedule and for program-specific tuition and fee information, please visit https://studentaccounts.ucf.edu. Due to rising costs, financial planning should allow for a 5 to 10 percent annual increase in living expenses and/or tuition. Funding requirements will vary for students that have been offered an Assistantship/Fellowship. Intensive English Program (IEP) GAA Prep GAA III GAA II and GAA UI Tuition and Fees $5,254 (2 sessions) $5,254 (1 semester) $25,500 (3 semesters) $17,000(2 semesters) Living Expenses $4,867 (2 sessions) $4,867 (1 semester) $15,804 (per year) $15,804 (per year) Mandatory Health Insurance $1,265 (2 sessions) $1,265 (1 semester) $3,320 (per year) $3,320 (per year) TOTAL $11,386 (2 sessions) $11,386 (1 semester) $44,624 (per year) $36,124 (per year) Dependent (if applicable) $2,000 per dependent (2 sessions) $2,000 per dependent (1 semester) $3,000 per dependent (per year) $3,000 per dependent (per year) *If you are married and your spouse and/or children are accompanying you to the U.S., you must show an additional funding for each dependent. **Tuition, fees, and insurance costs are subject to change. FINANCIAL DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS If you or a sponsor will be providing the funding for your education, there are specific requirements you must follow to document those funds and obtain your Form I-20 or DS-2019. FINANCIAL DOCUMENTATION MUST: Be dated less than one year from the first day of classes Be officially translated in English (if applicable) State the account holder’s name, currency of the funds, type of account, current available balance, and officially issued by a financial institution Additionally, funds must be liquid and currently available (i.e., savings or checking) To help you navigate this requirement, please review the following acceptable examples of financial supporting documents: PERSONAL FUNDS If your financial support will come from your personal funds, you may submit a recent official bank letter or statement only. The account must belong to you (the applicant). FUNDS FROM YOUR FAMILY OR SPONSOR If your financial support is from anyone other than yourself, you are required to submit an affidavit of support that must be signed by your sponsor, along with a recent bank letter or statement from your sponsor’s account. For the affidavit of support, you can use the Affidavit of Support Form or use a separate affidavit statement that contains the name of the sponsor, relationship to the applicant, name of the applicant, and the U.S. Dollar amount available for the purpose of the applicant’s educational expenses. As another option, you may submit a bank letter on official letterhead containing the name of the sponsor, relationship to the applicant, name of the applicant, amount of funds available for the purpose of the applicant’s studies (must include the currency of the funds and type of account). BUSINESS ACCOUNTS If your sponsor will be providing financial support from a business account, then you must submit a recent bank statement from the business account, an official bank letter indicating the name of the individual(s) who have signatory power, and an affidavit of support for the individual(s) listed. For the affidavit of support, you can use the Affidavit of Support Form or use a separate affidavit statement that contains the name of the sponsor, relationship to the applicant, name of the applicant, and the U.S. Dollar amount available for the purpose of the applicant’s educational expenses. EDUCATIONAL LOAN You may provide a recent sanctioned educational loan letter including terms and conditions such as fund availability date and total loan amount. If a co-borrower or guarantor is listed on the loan letter you must submit a signed affidavit of support for each person listed. For the affidavit of support, you can use the Affidavit of Support Form or use a separate affidavit statement that contains the name of the sponsor, relationship to the applicant, name of the applicant, and the U.S. Dollar amount available for the purpose of the applicant’s educational expenses. GOVERNMENT OR OTHER SPONSORING AGENCY If your financial support will come from any type of scholarship or sponsorship, you may submit an official signed copy of the scholarship or award letter specifying the total amount of the scholarship including tuition & fees, living costs, health insurance, dependent coverage, etc. UCF GRADUATE ASSISTANTSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS, ATHLETICS SCHOLARSHIPS, OR OTHER UCF FUNDING If you are receiving financial assistance from the university, an official finalized offer letter of the award must be received by UCF Global from the College of Graduate Studies, Academic Department, and/or the UCF Athletics Department. The letter must include funding details such the amount and duration of the award including tuition & fees, living costs, and health insurance. EXAMPLES OF FINANCIAL DOCUMENTS THAT WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED INCLUDE: Screenshots of online accounts Business accounts without official signatory verification Annual salary statements or pay stubs Tax return statements Statements showing non-liquid assets (jewelry, real estate, automobiles, etc.) Insurance policies Lines of credit Investments, portfolios, stocks, bonds, or other accounts from which money cannot be withdrawn Fixed or Timed accounts or Certificate of Deposits not matured or with withdrawal restrictions (Except China and Vietnam) PRE-ARRIVAL AND ORIENTATION If you have been offered admission to the University of Central Florida, Congratulations! We are excited to welcome you to the vibrant community of Global Knights. To help you prepare for your arrival to campus, we have outlined important information you need to know to have a smooth transition to campus. 1Secure a Visa or Transfer Your SEVIS Record To begin studies inside the United States, international students must apply for an F-1 or J-1 visa at a U.S. Embassy/Consulate abroad or complete a SEVIS transfer from a current U.S. school. Click here for information on how to request a Form I-20 or DS-2019 from UCF Global. CLICK HERE TO REQUEST A FORM I-20 OR DS-2019 F-1 AND J-1 STUDENTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES (INITIAL FORM I-20 OR DS-2019) Students outside of the United States who have been issued a Form I-20 or DS-2019 from UCF Global must apply for their F-1 or J-1 student visa at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their country. Review the Form I-20 or DS-2019. Ensure the personal information and program information is correct. Pay the SEVIS I-901 Fee. The SEVIS I-901 Fee is a mandatory government fee that all incoming students must pay at least 3 days before their visa interview. The SEVIS I-901 Fee can be paid online at fmjfee.com. Students will need to enter the information that appears on their Form I-20 or DS-2019 issued by UCF. The information required to make a SEVIS I-901 Fee payment is located on the Form I-20 or DS-2019 itself. Once the SEVIS I-901 fee is paid, print the receipt. Visa SEVIS I-901 Fee F-1 $350 USD J-1 $220 USD Complete the Nonimmigrant Visa Application (DS-160). Visit the Consular Electronic Application Center website and follow the instructions on the form. Be sure to print and keep the confirmation page which will contain the application information. Pay the visa application fee. Students should refer to the website of the U.S. Embassy or Consulate where they will apply for their visa for detailed instructions on how to pay the visa application fee. The current fee is $160 USD. We strongly advise students to apply for an F-1 or J-1 visa at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their county of citizenship or legal residence only. Schedule the visa interview. Students should refer to the website of the U.S. Embassy or Consulate where they will apply for their visa for detailed instructions on how to schedule their visa interview. View the video for information on how to prepare for your visa interview IMPORTANT TIPS TO REMEMBER: Students who have been issued a Form I-20 or DS-2019 from multiple schools must apply for their visa using for Form I-20 or DS-2019 issued by UCF. If the visa was issued using a Form I-20 or DS-2019 from another school, the student is encouraged to apply for a new visa. For initial entry to the United States, the school and SEVIS information listed on the visa must match the Form I-20 or DS-2019. Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require an F-1 visa nor a J-1 visa to enter the United States in F-1 or J-1 status. F-1 AND J-1 STUDENTS CURRENTLY STUDYING IN THE UNITED STATES (SEVIS TRANSFER) F-1 and J-1 students currently studying in the U.S. at another institution, will need to have their SEVIS record electronically transferred to UCF prior to the start of classes. This SEVIS transfer will allow UCF to generate an updated Form I-20 or DS-2019 for you. Students should contact the International Advisor at their current institution for guidance on the school’s procedures regarding the SEVIS transfer out process and scheduling the release of the SEVIS record to UCF. CLICK HERE TO REQUEST A FORM I-20 OR DS-2019 2Complete the Online International Student Orientation All international students admitted to undergraduate, graduate, and pathway programs need to complete an online orientation in WebCourses. This orientation includes important information students need to know before arriving to campus. Students will automatically be added to the Online International Student Orientation in WebCourses upon admission to the university and should complete the orientation prior to their arrival to the USA (or prior to their SEVIS Transfer). Students must earn a 100% on all quizzes in the online orientation to successfully complete the orientation. To begin the Online International Student Orientation, log into WebCourses with your NID. If you do not know your NID, you can locate it here. 3Fulfill Other University Requirements Prior to their arrival to campus, international students should complete the following university requirements which include: PROOF OF IMMUNIZATION All UCF students must submit a completed Immunization Form to UCF Student Health Services prior to enrollment. PROOF OF HEALTH INSURANCE All international students must have medical insurance that meets the Florida Board of Governors’ requirements. Click here for information about the health insurance requirement. UNDERGRADUATE ORIENTATION All new undergraduate students are required to attend the UCF Undergraduate Orientation. Please click here for more information. Generally, in-person orientation must be completed after arrival to the U.S. but prior to registering for classes. GRADUATE ORIENTATION While not required, graduate students are strongly encouraged to complete the Graduate Orientation offered by the College of Graduate Studies. Certain graduate programs may require a specific departmental orientation. Consult with you graduate program adviser for more information. OTHER REQUIREMENTS Students should review their “Holds” in myUCF to take care of any other required procedures. 4Travel to Orlando, Florida Students are strongly encouraged to arrive at least 1 or 2 weeks prior to the start of classes, or at least before classes begin. Keep in mind that F-1 and J-1 students making an initial entry into the USA with a valid F-1 or J-1 visa can arrive up to 30 days prior to the program start date listed on the Form I-20 or DS-2019. It may be helpful to arrive early and stay in a nearby hotel while you decide where you want to live. Most students choose to arrive at the Orlando International Airport (MCO). It is a 30-minute drive to the UCF main campus. Taxis are readily available at the airport and shuttle services can also be arranged in advance and are often less expensive than taxis. Ride share services (Uber, Lyft) are also available. Visit the Orlando International Airport website for more information about ground transportation. 5Check in with UCF Global To meet F-1 and J-1 regulatory reporting requirements, all new students are required to check-in with UCF Global upon arrival to the U.S. UCF GLOBAL ENGLISH PROGRAMS Students in these programs may check in in-person during an in-person orientation at UCF Global. Please check with your program to inquire about reporting obligations. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS, GRADUATE PROGRAMS, AND EXCHANGE STUDENTS Students in these programs must complete their check-in virtually upon arrival to the United States. VIRTUAL CHECK-IN INSTRUCTIONS After arrival to the United States, visit: global.ucf.edu/docintake/isss Upload the following documents: Completed Arrival Form Most Recent Form I-94 Most Recent Form I-20 or DS-2019 Most Recent Passport Most Recent F-1 or J-1 Visa or USCIS Notice of Action All of the above for all F-2 or J-2 dependents, if applicable Once these documents have been uploaded, UCF Global will review the documents, remove any applicable international student holds on the student account, activate the SEVIS record, and reach out to the student individually if further information is needed. 6Attend the UCF Global Knights Welcome Event At the Global Knights Welcome Event, students will receive important reminders about their first few weeks at UCF and have a chance to meet other new students, their Global Student Ambassadors, and the UCF Global Team. Information about the Global Knights Welcome Event can be found in the Online International Student Orientation in WebCourses. We look forward to welcoming you to UCF! HOUSING ON-CAMPUS HOUSING UCF Housing and Residence Life is proud to offer a variety of residential communities to UCF students. All UCF Housing communities come with the security and convenience of 24-hour staff support, furnished rooms, all utilities included, high-speed Wi-Fi, individual leases, and unbeatable locations. There are many types of available floorplans and price points ranging from traditional shared suites to 2-bedroom, 2-bathroom, luxury apartments. A shared suite typically accommodates two students to a bedroom, and two bedrooms (4 students) share a bathroom. Apartments can accommodate 2 to 6 students and typically feature private bedrooms, with shared living rooms and kitchens or kitchenettes. There is no hall-style or “dormitory” housing at UCF. Students are encouraged to apply for on-campus housing immediately upon admission to UCF as on-campus housing fills up quickly. Click here to learn more about on-campus housing. OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING The majority of UCF international students live off-campus. There are many apartment complexes located very close to Main Campus and which are on a UCF Shuttle Route. New students may consider the following when choosing housing: Location. How far is the apartment from campus? Access to transportation. What transportation will you rely on? If you don’t own a car, is the apartment located on a UCF shuttle route or Lynx bus route? Rent and utilities costs. Does the monthly rent fit your budget? Which utilities, such as electricity and water, are included in the rent? Amenities. What amenities does the apartment complex offer? It is common for apartments to have their own washer and dryer in each apartment but if not, is there a laundromat on-site? Size of apartment. Does the apartment meet your space needs? If you will be sharing the apartment with roommates, will you have your own room? HOW TO FIND OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING UCF Neighborhood Relations provides resources to help UCF students in their off-campus housing search: A Knight’s Guide to Living Off-Campus Off-Campus Housing & Roommate Search tool UNDERSTANDING YOUR LEASE When renting an apartment, students will need to sign a lease. A lease is a legal document and a contract between the student (tenant) and the landlord. It is very important to read the lease carefully and view the apartment in-person (if possible) before signing. Most off-campus apartments require a 12-month lease. Prior to signing a lease, students should review the following list of items to look for and/or avoid in a lease, prepared by UCF Student Legal Services. Students who would like to have their lease reviewed by an attorney, have additional questions, or have a dispute with their landlord can contact UCF Student Legal Services. GRADUATE HIRING PAPERWORK Graduate students who have been awarded an Assistantship or Fellowship need to schedule an appointment with an UCF Global Employment and Taxation Coordinator by calling 407-823-2337 to complete their hiring/scholarship paperwork after completing the Virtual Check-In with UCF Global. Students must have the following original documents to process their paperwork (no copies will be accepted): Passport Visa Continued Attendance Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 I-94 Employment Offer Letter or Contract (employment start date must be indicated) Social Security Card – if applicable ABOUT UCF Global is on a quest to transform lives by providing access to high impact, international experiences across the UCF and global community with a commitment to excellence in partnership, innovation, and services. UCF Global Organizational Chart CONTACT US 4356 Scorpius Street Orlando, FL 32816-0130 Phone: (407) 823-2337 Fax: (407) 823-2526 Email: ucfglobal@ucf.edu Quick Links UCF Global Programs IEP Academic Calendar OEP Academic Calendar UCF International Admissions UCF F-1 Students Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Learn More!