Skip to Main Content About Our Programs Global Fellows Duke In The World Duke Globally Taught Courses The Duke Global Service Award Newsletter Passport Drive Around The World in Books Host a Visitor Request a Visit Contact Us Global Partnerships Types of International Partnerships Best Practices New Partnerships Renewing Agreements Frequently Asked Questions How We Can Help You Duke In The World Resources Fulbright Global Support – Policies and Procedures Funding Opportunities 10 Point Travel Checklist How To Get A Passport Points Of Contact Events Duke Travel Global News Global Affairs Articles Rooted in our region and connected to the world Learn More Welcome to Duke Global Our curiosity about the world drives us to be leaders in international research and education. Rooted in our region and connected to the world, Duke University is addressing complex challenges through collaborations with partners across the globe. Stay up-to-date with global news at Duke. Join our mailing list. Email Submit Ukraine-related Resources Information regarding resources at Duke that can assist you in times of need. CLICK HERE TO LEARN MORE student Profile Khari Johnson Johnson came to Duke to translate his love of science into engineering that can change the way medicine serves people. faculty Profile Christine Folch Location Brazil Duke Impact 12k More than 12,000 Duke graduates live outside of the United States. The university has over 180,000 alums in 165 countries around the world. alumni Profile Pooja Mehta ’17 Tips on Starting Family Discussions About Racism Global Offices on Campus Find additional resources and services on campus for global scholarship. Bass Connections Duke Center for International Development Duke Center for International and Global Studies DukeEngage Duke Global Health Institute Duke Office of Duke Kunshan University Relations Global and Civic Duke Academic Engagement Global Education Office Global Administrative and Travel Support International and Area Studies Department at Duke University Libraries International House Office of University Scholars and Fellows Rubenstein-Bing Student-Athlete Civic Engagement (ACE) Join Our Mailing List Email Submit Our Office 421 Chapel Drive Box 90035 Durham, NC 27708 phone: (919) 684-0682 Contact Us Annual Report Privacy Policy Terms of Service © 2022 Duke University. All Rights Reserved. Higher Education Website Design by NMC.