Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement Incoming Exchange Students Questions? Contact Laura Semenow 918-631-3226 Location Hardesty Hall, third floor Application Log In Email INCOMING EXCHANGE STUDENTS Participating Partner Universities Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application Contact Global Engagement Be an Incoming Student at The University of Tulsa If your university has a formal exchange agreement with The University of Tulsa, you are eligible to apply to study at TU for one semester or one academic year. You just need to be nominated by your school’s international office and meet our English Language requirements For questions, please contact Kimberly Hendeson @ 918-631-2667 How to Apply Step 1: Contact the Study Abroad Office at your home university. They will be able to confirm if you are eligible to apply to be an incoming student at The University of Tulsa. You must be nominated by your home university. Partner Universities e-mail TU with students name and e-mail addresses. Please ask your study abroad office to nominate you at least 2 weeks before the application deadline, so that you have enough time to complete your online application. Application Deadline: May 1 – Fall semester or Academic year October 1 – Spring semester Step 2: You will receive an e-mail from TU with instructions on how to create an online application. Step 3: Complete the online application and submit the supporting documents by the deadline. Here is what you will be asked to submit as part of the online application: Letter of Motivation/Statement of Interest Home University Transcript/Official Grade Report: Upload a scanned copy of your official transcript in English to your online application. Copy of Passport: Upload a legible scanned copy of your passport to your online application. Confirmation of Financial Resources (CFR): You must show financial support in the amount of Tulsa’s Estimated Living Expenses for each semester spent at TU, for US immigration/visa purposes. The CFR must contain original signature(s) and your bank’s official seal/stamp. A link to the form will be available via your online application. English Language Test Score (Original TOEFL, Cambridge or IELTS) :Original scores should be sent directly from the testing center to TU. To facilitate the process, a scanned version of the results or website screen shot will also be accepted. When your application is complete we will review it and submit it for approval by the TU colleges (Arts & Sciences/Business/Engineering & Natural Sciences/Health Sciences) in which you plan to take courses. Once your application is approved, you will hear from the CGE regarding your acceptance status. The CGE will send you an official letter of acceptance along with immigration documents and a packet of materials and instructions regarding the next steps to becoming a TU student. If you have questions or need help with the application process, please contact Kimberly Hendeson @ 918-631-2667 Remember: Application deadline: May 1st for Fall semester or Academic year and October 1st for Spring semester Incoming Student Login English Language Requirement Unless you are a native speaker, take the TOEFL, Cambridge, Duolingo, or IELTS to prove English proficiency. Incoming students must have a thorough knowledge of written and spoken English in order to be successful while studying at The University of Tulsa. All students whose first language is not English are required to provide evidence of English proficiency as part of their application to the university. Currently, there are 3 tests being offered that The University of Tulsa will accept as proof of English proficiency: TOEFL, IELTS and Cambridge. For undergraduate students An iBT TOEFL score of 70 with a minimum score on each of the four elements of the examination as follows: Reading 15, Listening 15, Speaking 18, Writing 17 An IELTS score of 6.0 or higher with 6.0 or higher with a minimum score on each of the four elements of the examination as follows: Reading 6.0, Listening 6.0, Speaking 6.0, Writing 5.5. A Cambridge English score of 176 with no individual score below 169 A paper-based TOEFL score of 525 or above with a minimum of 50 on all sub-scores (only a TU institutional TOEFL score will be accepted) A Duolingo English Test (DET) score of 100 or higher (on new 160-pt. scale) Tests’ original scores should be sent directly to the University of Tulsa. (For TOEFL – Tulsa’s institutional code is 6883). Scores must be less than two years old For graduate students See Graduate School English Language Requirements. Financial Requirements Students need to provide a confirmation of financial resources (CFR) document as part of the online application in order for TU to issue the immigration documents needed for the visa. The exact amount to be confirmed will be listed in your online application. But as you are planning your semester or year at The University of Tulsa, here are estimated expenses to keep in mind: Tuition: Depends on the agreement with the partner University. Books: US$600/semester* Campus housing: US$3,700/semester* Food: US$2700/ semester* Personal expenses/social activities: US$2,000-2500/semester* TU student health insurance**: US$1,150/semester* * These are just estimated amounts: ** The TU health insurance requirement can be waived if your insurance meets the guidelines set by the US government for student visa holders. You will read more detailed information as part of the online application. Other Fees to Consider Housing deposit: US$250 SEVIS Fee (required prior to applying to student visa): US$180 US Student Visa application: varies (Consult the US consulate closest to you.) Travel to the US: varies There are no TU scholarships to cover the expenses above. However, students are allowed to work on the TU campus for up to 20 hours per week. For the Confirmation of Financial Resources, we use the estimates published here. Housing Accommodations Exchange students are required to live on campus during their stay with us. You will find the housing to be quite comfortable and convenient to your classes and other student activities on campus. All exchange students are housed at Hardesty Hall, 3rd floor at the Hardesty Language Community. Students will be housed with other TU students interested in learning languages and learning about global issues. Hardesty Hall is also home to the Student Success Center, Orientation, and Counseling Center. It is in the heart of campus and close to the Student Union, where the CGE is located, and academic buildings. Click here to read more about campus housing and Hardesty Hall. Accepted Incoming Students Congratulations! You will be a TU student next semester. It is time to get ready for your life in Tulsa. Please log back into your online account to read pre-arrival information, create your TUnetID (campus e-mail & login), apply for housing & orientation and tell us about your arrival for airport pickup. You should complete the post-acceptance steps of your online application as soon as you can. After receipt of the welcome packet that was mailed to your permanent address (which will include the DS-2019 immigration document & instructions), you will need to apply and pay for the J-1 Visa for Exchange Visitors at the nearest U.S. Embassy/Consulate in your country of residence. More information at your local U.S. Embassy/Consulate. Important Dates You should arrive in Tulsa one week before the start of the Fall term (the Monday before) or the Thursday before the start of the Spring term, so you can participate in the New to the US Student Orientation. Exact dates will be available on your online application. You should plan to leave campus housing the Friday after the last day of exams. The University of Tulsa’s academic calendar provides a complete list of academic dates. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT