Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home About Global Travel About Global Travel Global Travel is dedicated to supporting the health, safety, and security of University travelers engaged in Columbia Travel abroad. We can assist with pre-departure preparations, including overseeing the requirements of the university's International Travel Planning Policy* and working closely with the university's 24/7 emergency assistance provider, International SOS. In support of the mission and core values of Columbia University, we monitor worldwide news, travel alerts, and International SOS Global Risk Ratings to assemble and disseminate safety resources to those on official Columbia Travel. We provide support for Columbia travelers and various international travel issues, such as providing services in times of crisis or emergency. In urgent situations, this includes making recommendations for traveler evacuation from a specific location(s) or halting travel to a specific location for a period of time. The International Travel Planning Policy (ITPP)* This policy establishes a set of guidelines and requirements for planning international travel and covers international Columbia Travel, which includes Columbia-Led Travel and Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel, as defined below. It does not cover Non-Columbia Travel. Pre-travel requirements described in the Policy primarily impact (a) students, Officers of Administration, support staff, and (b) faculty and other Columbia employees traveling internationally with students or organizing international student travel. However, all Columbia employees who conduct international Columbia Travel are also encouraged to familiarize themselves with the Policy. *For a PDF version of the International Travel Planning Policy, please click here. [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close