Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. For Penn Faculty Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support As part of its global mission, Penn is committed to supporting its faculty as they work across borders and disciplines to address the world's pressing challenges. Support for Global Research Initiatives Penn Global provides key support for faculty research initiatives to advance Penn as a global leader in research and innovation. We encourage you to explore the ways in which you can partner with our office to make a global impact with your research. Go Back person_search Penn Global Research & Engagement Grant Program Through our competitive Research & Engagement Grant Program, Penn Global seeds creative, faculty-driven projects that catalyze entrepreneurial initiatives in a global context. The grant program consists of the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2020), India Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2017), China Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2015), and Global Engagement Fund (est. 2011). Learn More & Apply Today Go Back event Global Research Events & Sponsorship Penn Global convenes and co-sponsors numerous conferences, symposia, and worshops designed to highlight the depth and breadth of Penn research around the world. Examples include our annual research symposia; faculty speaker series, highlighting Penn faculty research in China and India; and the annual Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean (PLAC) conference, for which we are a co-sponsor. To search for sponsorship opportunities, please refer to our grant program. We also encourage you to follow us on Twitter (@PennGlobal) for the latest updates on upcoming events. Partner with Penn Global Follow Penn Global on Twitter Go Back person_search Penn Global Research & Engagement Grant Program Through our competitive Research & Engagement Grant Program, Penn Global seeds creative, faculty-driven projects that catalyze entrepreneurial initiatives in a global context. The grant program consists of the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2020), India Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2017), China Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2015), and Global Engagement Fund (est. 2011). Learn More & Apply Today Go Back event Global Research Events & Sponsorship Penn Global convenes and co-sponsors numerous conferences, symposia, and worshops designed to highlight the depth and breadth of Penn research around the world. Examples include our annual research symposia; faculty speaker series, highlighting Penn faculty research in China and India; and the annual Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean (PLAC) conference, for which we are a co-sponsor. To search for sponsorship opportunities, please refer to our grant program. We also encourage you to follow us on Twitter (@PennGlobal) for the latest updates on upcoming events. Partner with Penn Global Follow Penn Global on Twitter Support for Global Teaching Activities From organizing a short-term travel component as part of your semester class, to mentoring Penn students on a global research initiative, to making your teaching more policy-relevant, there are a number of ways we can partner with you to support your global teaching activities and ambitions. Go Back mode_of_travel Penn Global Seminars Penn Global Seminars (PGS) combine intensive semester-long study with a short-term travel component during a break period that is intended to deepen students’ understanding of concepts discussed in the classroom. These courses require the same number of contact hours per week as a typical undergraduate seminar, in addition to the embedded 8-12 day travel abroad component during winter break, spring break, or early-mid May. Penn Global Seminars are a partnership between Penn Global and Penn’s academic departments. This program could not exist without the support and interest of Penn’s faculty, department chairs, deans, and administrative staff. Lead a Penn Global Seminar Go Back supervisor_account Penn Global Research Institutes Penn Global Research Institutes (PGRI) provide outstanding undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to conduct research abroad alongside Penn faculty during the summer. Launched during the 2021/22 academic year, PGRI supports a small research team of Penn students, led by a Penn faculty member, that seek to address major global challenges. The team works together throughout the year, with an opportunity to travel over the summer to conduct fieldwork and other research activities. Lead a Penn Global Research Institute Go Back policy Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants Perry World House's Global Policy Course Enrichment Grant program strengthens Penn by building bridges between classes in the Penn curriculum and the world of global policy. The program awards grants of up to $10,000 to enable Penn faculty to make a course more global policy-relevant by: designing new course or the curricular redesign of an existing course; inviting guest speakers from relevant global policy communities; or developing policy-oriented case studies or other creative connections with the policy world. Apply for a Grant Today Go Back mode_of_travel Penn Global Seminars Penn Global Seminars (PGS) combine intensive semester-long study with a short-term travel component during a break period that is intended to deepen students’ understanding of concepts discussed in the classroom. These courses require the same number of contact hours per week as a typical undergraduate seminar, in addition to the embedded 8-12 day travel abroad component during winter break, spring break, or early-mid May. Penn Global Seminars are a partnership between Penn Global and Penn’s academic departments. This program could not exist without the support and interest of Penn’s faculty, department chairs, deans, and administrative staff. Lead a Penn Global Seminar Go Back supervisor_account Penn Global Research Institutes Penn Global Research Institutes (PGRI) provide outstanding undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to conduct research abroad alongside Penn faculty during the summer. Launched during the 2021/22 academic year, PGRI supports a small research team of Penn students, led by a Penn faculty member, that seek to address major global challenges. The team works together throughout the year, with an opportunity to travel over the summer to conduct fieldwork and other research activities. Lead a Penn Global Research Institute Go Back policy Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants Perry World House's Global Policy Course Enrichment Grant program strengthens Penn by building bridges between classes in the Penn curriculum and the world of global policy. The program awards grants of up to $10,000 to enable Penn faculty to make a course more global policy-relevant by: designing new course or the curricular redesign of an existing course; inviting guest speakers from relevant global policy communities; or developing policy-oriented case studies or other creative connections with the policy world. Apply for a Grant Today Support for Global Policy Engagement Perry World House, located on Penn's campus at 38th and Locust Walk, and Penn Biden Center, based in Washington, D.C., are two of Penn's global centers focused on engaging the University in policy-relevant work, research, and dialogue. Go Back groups Perry World House Programs for Faculty Perry World House is Penn's hub for global policy engagement, with a focus on bringing Penn's academic knowledge to bear on some of the world's most pressing global policy challenges. Perry World House supports Penn faculty who desire to engage the global policy world and broaden their research and teaching impact. Programs available to faculty include: Faculty Affiliates Faculty affiliates are expected to participate in some of Perry World House's events throughout the year, and will be given opportunities to meet and interact with PWH visitors and students. Faculty Fellows The Faculty Fellows program aims to deepen the collaboration between faculty members across all of Penn’s 12 schools and Perry World House by providing robust support for global policy-relevant faculty research and engagement. Lightning Scholars Inspired by Penn founder Benjamin Franklin's groundbreaking research in electricity, this program brings untenured, but tenure-track, faculty at either the assistant or associate level from around the world to Philadelphia for a semester or year of writing, fellowship, and bridging the gap between academia and the policy world. Learn more and join Perry World House Go Back payments Perry World House Grants for Faculty Perry World House is Penn's hub for global policy engagement, with a focus on bringing Penn's academic knowledge to bear on some of the world's most pressing global policy challenges. Perry World House supports Penn faculty who desire to engage the global policy world and broaden their research and teaching impact. Grants available to faculty include: Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants Through this grant program, Penn faculty receive support to make their teaching more policy-relevant, with grants available to design a new course, invite guest speakers, and more. International Visitors Grant Program Members of the Penn community - faculty, research centers, institutes, programs, and student groups - can apply for funding of up to $1,000 to bring an international policy visitor to Penn from abroad, using virtual learning, programming, and engagement strategies. PWH-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize Perry World House has partnered with Foreign Affairs for the Perry World House-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize. This $10,000 prize encourages scholars to translate their own academic work to be more accessible to a broader policy audience. Learn More and Apply Today Go Back foundation Penn Biden Center The Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement at the University of Pennsylvania is founded on the principle that a democratic, open, secure, tolerant, and interconnected world benefits all Americans. Based in our nation’s capital, the Penn Biden Center engages Penn’s students and partners with its faculty and global centers to convene world leaders, develop and advance smart policy, and strengthen the national debate for continued American global leadership in the 21st century. Connect with the Penn Biden Center Go Back groups Perry World House Programs for Faculty Perry World House is Penn's hub for global policy engagement, with a focus on bringing Penn's academic knowledge to bear on some of the world's most pressing global policy challenges. Perry World House supports Penn faculty who desire to engage the global policy world and broaden their research and teaching impact. Programs available to faculty include: Faculty Affiliates Faculty affiliates are expected to participate in some of Perry World House's events throughout the year, and will be given opportunities to meet and interact with PWH visitors and students. Faculty Fellows The Faculty Fellows program aims to deepen the collaboration between faculty members across all of Penn’s 12 schools and Perry World House by providing robust support for global policy-relevant faculty research and engagement. Lightning Scholars Inspired by Penn founder Benjamin Franklin's groundbreaking research in electricity, this program brings untenured, but tenure-track, faculty at either the assistant or associate level from around the world to Philadelphia for a semester or year of writing, fellowship, and bridging the gap between academia and the policy world. Learn more and join Perry World House Go Back payments Perry World House Grants for Faculty Perry World House is Penn's hub for global policy engagement, with a focus on bringing Penn's academic knowledge to bear on some of the world's most pressing global policy challenges. Perry World House supports Penn faculty who desire to engage the global policy world and broaden their research and teaching impact. Grants available to faculty include: Global Policy Course Enrichment Grants Through this grant program, Penn faculty receive support to make their teaching more policy-relevant, with grants available to design a new course, invite guest speakers, and more. International Visitors Grant Program Members of the Penn community - faculty, research centers, institutes, programs, and student groups - can apply for funding of up to $1,000 to bring an international policy visitor to Penn from abroad, using virtual learning, programming, and engagement strategies. PWH-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize Perry World House has partnered with Foreign Affairs for the Perry World House-Foreign Affairs Emerging Scholars Policy Prize. This $10,000 prize encourages scholars to translate their own academic work to be more accessible to a broader policy audience. Learn More and Apply Today Go Back foundation Penn Biden Center The Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement at the University of Pennsylvania is founded on the principle that a democratic, open, secure, tolerant, and interconnected world benefits all Americans. Based in our nation’s capital, the Penn Biden Center engages Penn’s students and partners with its faculty and global centers to convene world leaders, develop and advance smart policy, and strengthen the national debate for continued American global leadership in the 21st century. Connect with the Penn Biden Center Other Support for Global Activities Go Back person_outline Penn's At-Risk Scholars Program The University of Pennsylvania’s At-Risk Scholars Program provides central University support to Penn Schools, centers, and departments who wish to help at-risk scholars escape persecution and danger to themselves and their families through a period of residence at Penn. The At-Risk Scholars Program, administered by the Office of the Provost, is intended to simultaneously lend humanitarian aid and refuge to at-risk scholars and to enhance the University’s teaching, research, and service missions. If your department would like to sponsor an at-risk scholar, we recommend visiting the program's website to get started. Learn More about the At-Risk Scholars Program Go Back person_add_alt_1 International Visting Scholars & Researchers International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides immigration support and guidance to international students, scholars, staff, and faculty across the University, including University central, Penn's 12 Schools, and the University of Pennsylvania Health System. For guidance on hiring foreign nationals, please refer to the ISSS website. ISSS Guidance for Visiting Scholars and Researchers Go Back flight International Travel Are you a member of the Penn community seeking support for your travel abroad? Check out our website dedicated to International Travel Guidance. From pre-departure support to 24/7 assistance while abroad, Penn is here to support you before, during, and after your trip. International Travel Guidance COVID-19 related travel guidelines & procedures Go Back face Global Operations Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including, but not limited to, the areas of risk, labor, tax, and compliance. Additionally, GSS manages the University's at-risk travel policy. GSS works closely with International Risk Management, Office of General Counsel, and Research Services, among many others to advise and support central organizations, Schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. Get Started with GSS Go Back document_scanner International Agreements & Partnerships Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including the development of new international MOUs and agreements. We also maintain a record of existing school/center agreements. Note: Before an agreement can be signed, it must be reviewed by both the Associate Vice Provost of Global Initiatives and the Executive Director of Global Support Services to ensure that your institutional agreement conforms to the University guidelines and to determine the appropriate signatory. Get Started with GSS Go Back person_outline Penn's At-Risk Scholars Program The University of Pennsylvania’s At-Risk Scholars Program provides central University support to Penn Schools, centers, and departments who wish to help at-risk scholars escape persecution and danger to themselves and their families through a period of residence at Penn. The At-Risk Scholars Program, administered by the Office of the Provost, is intended to simultaneously lend humanitarian aid and refuge to at-risk scholars and to enhance the University’s teaching, research, and service missions. If your department would like to sponsor an at-risk scholar, we recommend visiting the program's website to get started. Learn More about the At-Risk Scholars Program Go Back person_add_alt_1 International Visting Scholars & Researchers International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides immigration support and guidance to international students, scholars, staff, and faculty across the University, including University central, Penn's 12 Schools, and the University of Pennsylvania Health System. For guidance on hiring foreign nationals, please refer to the ISSS website. ISSS Guidance for Visiting Scholars and Researchers Go Back flight International Travel Are you a member of the Penn community seeking support for your travel abroad? Check out our website dedicated to International Travel Guidance. From pre-departure support to 24/7 assistance while abroad, Penn is here to support you before, during, and after your trip. International Travel Guidance COVID-19 related travel guidelines & procedures Go Back face Global Operations Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including, but not limited to, the areas of risk, labor, tax, and compliance. Additionally, GSS manages the University's at-risk travel policy. GSS works closely with International Risk Management, Office of General Counsel, and Research Services, among many others to advise and support central organizations, Schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. Get Started with GSS Go Back document_scanner International Agreements & Partnerships Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including the development of new international MOUs and agreements. We also maintain a record of existing school/center agreements. Note: Before an agreement can be signed, it must be reviewed by both the Associate Vice Provost of Global Initiatives and the Executive Director of Global Support Services to ensure that your institutional agreement conforms to the University guidelines and to determine the appropriate signatory. Get Started with GSS 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy