Skip to content Global Training Initiative Office of Global Engagement Toggle navigation Connect With Us Meet the Team Contact and Visit Us Join Our Host Network Mentorship Program GTI News Campus Partnerships Student Programs Student Programs Overview Virtual and Online Certificate Programs Developing Cultural Competence Certificate GEARS US Culture & Higher Ed Certificate SKEMA US at NC State Professional Programs Professional Development Overview Global Skills Certification Training Global Leadership in VR Regions & Topics Regions Topics Campus Partnerships Global Innovation and Entrepreneurship Racing Drones Search Search for: Search GEARS in North Carolina Global Education, Academics, and Research Skills Administered by the NC State University Global Training Initiative (GTI), the GEARS Program is a unique academic, research and cultural exchange program that enables academically gifted domestic and international students to experience campus life and academic research at universities across North Carolina. Participants in this non-degree and non-credit program have a rich on-campus experience, participate in a variety of cultural and social programs, explore research relevant to programs at their home institution and present their work via a judged poster presentation exhibit. There are several sessions to choose from in Winter (January – February) and Summer (June – August). This is a competitive full-time (35 hours per week) academic program that does not involve credit or culminate in a degree. Acceptance into this program is not guaranteed and also depends on the capacity and interest of relevant faculty and departments. Students are encouraged to apply early. In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the GEARS program will continue through Summer 2022 in an online/virtual format. Please click the project links below for a list of online offerings. 2022 Summer GEARS Online Program July 11 – August 19, 2022 (6 weeks) This full-time program will: Introduce students to the life of a graduate student in the U.S.; visiting students can interact with local students, faculty, and researchers Introduce students to different aspects of studying at a U.S. graduate institution; as a visiting student you will have the opportunity to engage in various workshops, visit and use university facilities, and engage in a study project. Introduce students to university research (planning experiments, accomplishing research tasks, managing time, ethical issues in research, summarizing results, lab safety, using the library and other campus resources, etc.) Students will not engage in classified research or access research where IP issues are an issue, but we endeavor to pair students with faculty conducting relevant or similar research. Provide workshops on academic oral and digital presentation skills and various aspects of U.S. American culture. Support students as they determine if they are truly interested in pursuing a graduate research degree program at a North Carolina university or elsewhere in the U.S. Explore North Carolina* through a variety of site visits and cultural activities (*in-person GEARS programs when they resume) 2022 Online Summer GEARS Program Application Student applications will open on March 10, 2022. Possible Online Research Lab Projects Check this list of possible online research lab projects (updated throughout the year). Students can select two topics of interest during their initial application. Application Requirements CV/Resume in English Official University Transcript in English: Minimum GPA of 3.0 on 4.0 scale. English Language Test Score in English: Minimum required scores are TOEFL iBT: 85, TOEFL iBT Home Edition: 85, CET 6: 480, ELTS: 6.5, TOEIC: 800, TEM4: 80, Duolingo: 100 *Native English speakers or students enrolled in a University that teaches in English are exempt **You only need to submit ONE test Please submit all documentation in English. Please contact your school’s international office, sponsoring agency, or email us for information about the program and application process. This is a very competitive program, so you may not be accepted even if you meet the minimum eligibility requirements. Applicant Process & Timeline Application opens to new applicants March 10, 2022 1st Round Applicant Review & Placement April 27, 2022 Applications Closed and 2nd Round Review & Placement May 29, 2022 Program Offer Between April 28 -June 15 Program Acceptance Deadline* 3 Days after Offer *Applicants who receive an offer have 3 days to confirm their participation in the program and complete their payment. Please check your email frequently during the application process and should you be accepted, monitor your email closely for the duration of the program. Price: USD$1350. This price includes: Lab placement and university fees Online E-Poster & Presentation Skills Workshop Research skills workshop Online poster exhibit Live webinar on Tips & Procedures for Graduate Admissions GTI Certificate A formal evaluation from mentoring professor *Certain partner universities have special conditions and funding opportunities set up for their students. Please contact your university for specific partnership details. GEARS Research To Be Presented At Academic Conference Read more about the program from a faculty mentor’s perspective Interested Faculty Show Less If you are interested in participating in this program as a research mentor, please contact us at gti@ncsu.edu for more information regarding benefits, processes, and expectations. Click here to sign up and register your project details after confirming your participation as a faculty mentor with a GTI team member. Overseas Partners Show More If you are interested in having your top students engage in this program, please contact us at gti@ncsu.edu. Research experiences cover a wide variety of academic fields. US Consular Officers Show More Thank you for reviewing the visa application for the student that has been accepted to our GEARS program. We can provide additional information needed if you have any questions about the program, its activities, or its purpose. Please email us or call 919.513.0105. Navigate Home Student Programs Professional Programs Regions Recent Articles Study Finds Realism a Key Factor in Driving Engagement with Virtual Reality Videos GTI Congratulates Our 2022 Graduates NC State Rises In Global Impact Ranking Visit Us Global Training Initiative 2526 Hillsborough St, Suite 200 Campus Box 7573 Raleigh, NC 27695 (map) 919.513.0105 gti@ncsu.edu facebook youtube twitter instagram linkedin Global Training Initiative Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011