Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Rio Center Stories: Ernesto Cruz, GSAPP and Estúdio Cruz Founder Rio de Janeiro Rio Center Stories: Ernesto Cruz, GSAPP and Estúdio Cruz Founder By Leticia Katz April 10, 2020 CGC Rio - Why did you decide to become an architect? This is an interesting question because it gives me space to rethink my role as an architect. I am trained as an architect and urban planner in São Paulo and New York, but I believe that part of the work that I'm doing also carries me over into other areas. I like to think that the work of the architect and of the urban planner as something that requires high technical and social responsibility,. CGC Rio - And why did you choose GSAPP for your master's degree? I was part of a year-long studies program called "The Shape of Two Cities: New York and Paris" at GSAPP. It was a non-degree program that studied the contexts of New York and Paris. I participated in this program because it was a good opportunity and it provided a good contrast to São Paulo. The Master's decision came after this experience with GSAPP. CGC Rio - Tell us a little about your professional career since your graduation? I graduated in 2013 and returned to São Paulo in 2015. While still in New York, I collaborated with architecture offices and got involved in woodworking projects. As soon as I arrived in São Paulo, I created the Estudio Cruz Arquitetura focused on residential projects. Parallel to this, I devoted time to volunteer work in the São Paulo outskirts, which consisted of construction activities and exercises with children in areas of social vulnerability. It was a program that started in São Miguel Paulista in the Favela Pantanal in 2005, and it has been expanding ever since. When I returned from New York, I ended up dedicating more time to social projects. From that point on, the studio started taking shape with educational projects and programmatic activities in culture, environment, leisure, and sport. In 2020, we created the Travessa platform as an extension to Estudio Cruz Arquitetura. It focuses on education and urbanization projects in territories of low public and private representation. For the past five years, I have been fully immersed in these projects. CGC Rio - What are your current projects under development? We are developing residential projects at Estudio Cruz Arquitetura as well as other activities focused on social responsibility which we divided into five case projects: IN.FORMAL is a series of workshops, currently in its fourth edition. The idea is to work with educational processes, to students in specifics contexts, that address different themes about the city, focused on practice, in order to address real problems of design and construction in areas of conflict, thus establishing exchanges, relevant knowledge and experience in different contexts while delivering impactful results. In 2017, with a group of architecture students, we built the headquarters of an NGO known as the Institute Nova União da Arte. In 2018, we built urban furniture in the Porto Alegre outskirts. In 2019, we did a project that addressed the topic of transpositions and barriers in the city, using the case of downtown São Paulo. Still in 2019 we worked with the theme of small houses and emergency construction. MORADA is a project that builds decent housing for people who do not have access to an architect's services. We work with planning, design, and construction. We remove the residents from a wood shack and put them in a permanent home. Between 2018 and 2019 we built four houses. It is a model that we are still studying how to operationalize, hoping to bring new partners and transform it into an even more educational, replicable and sustainable process. The C.I.S. (Social Infrastructure Center) is a social technology project that aims to strengthen areas in need. In short, it involves methodologies and processes focused on social development. We basically design an agenda year long focused in educational, cultural, sports and health activities hoping to support children and young people on the outskirts of the city, attracting public policies and private initiatives. I believe this could be a good combination of making cities where companies, private, public and all sectors are devoted to the society, to injustice and change poverty. We are thinking of ways to increase literacy, find new talents and provide income generation for productive young people. PAPO Travess.a is a podcast aiming to provoke different conversations about the city. These conversations are recorded with community leaders, other relevant actors, and ordinary people who are involved in the improvement of their areas. NEW PROJECTS are actions aimed at specific cases of private interests in developing human and social capital. In 2018, we were assigned to work with a company that had been held legally responsible for an environmental disaster that happened in 2015 in riverine communities in Santos. Last year, we built a playground with drawing activities for children in a neighborhood on the east side. Today, we are working on a project in partnership with Petrobras' social responsibility areas. CGC Rio - You have been working with the CGC Rio to design a program for Columbia students hoping to leverage social impact projects in Brazil? Can you talk a little about it? Yes, we are talking to Professor Kartik Chandran, from Columbia Engineering in the Earth and Environmental Engineering Department. He has done extensive research in sanitation and we are studying the possibilities of an activity with Master's students to work in a real context in São Paulo. We are proposing to work with historical territorial analysis and data collection regarding local infrastructure systems. This project would help to map how a neighborhood has built its own water and sewage networks over time, in order later to propose something new based on a local context. In this case, we are talking about a transdisciplinary approach: a content that comes from the engineering faculty and melds with an urban planning platform. In each case, both disciplines will be shaped by a context of local intelligence. We will also be partnering with the Columbia Global Centers Rio de Janeiro. This is very encouraging. CGC Rio - Could you give a brief statement about Columbia University? Columbia was undoubtedly an important investment in my training. Not only in my professional training, but it has also changed some concepts and values about society and my role in it. I have participated in many interesting Columbia alumni events and meetings in São Paulo. It's always a great opportunity to exchange ideas and great content. And now, with the Columbia Global Centers Rio de Janeiro support, it has been possible to make transdisciplinary partnerships with the engineering faculty. I think this is amazing! Tags Rio Rio: Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Rio: Government and Society GSAPP School: GSAPP news Rio Stories News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close