Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Compromises, Complicity and Rights Events Past Event Compromises, Complicity and Rights Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 11, 2020 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Online (Tunis/ Paris/ Istanbul) 4 PM Tunis Time | 4 PM Paris Time | 6 PM Istanbul Time | 10 AM EST In collaboration with CGC Paris and CGC Istanbul, CGC Tunis will host Dr. Agnes Callamard, Director of Columbia Global Freedom of Expression; UN Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial, Summary or Arbitrary Executions; for a conversation under the theme of "Compromises, Complicity and Rights". Agnes Callamard will be in conversation with Cansu Çamlıbel with the participation of Mohamed Yassine Jelassi, Secretary General of SNJT, the national union of Tunisian journalists. On November 21-22, 2020, Saudi Arabia hosted the fifteenth G20 meeting. It was held virtually due to COVID-19 but, nonetheless, world leaders gathered under the chairmanship of King Salman al-Saud and the active participation of his Crown Prince, Mohamed bin Salman. The summit was an opportunity for the Saudi leadership to promote its economic and political model, and its vision for the future. World leaders praised Saudi Arabia and discussed world affairs; none was critical to the host. In light of major human rights violations happening in the Kingdom or through its policies, such as the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, the general muzzling of the press, the imprisonment of feminist and other political activists, or the war on Yemen, are world leaders compromising with the Saudi leadership? Are they complacent? Complicit? And how should the victims claim their rights? Or should they claim their rights when political and economic realities prevail? Speakers: *Dr. Agnès Callamard is the Director of Columbia University Global Freedom of Expression, an initiative seeking to advance understanding on freedom of expression global norms, and Special Adviser to the President of Columbia University, first amendment scholar Lee Bollinger. On August 1, 2016, she was appointed the UN Special Rapporteur on Extra-Judicial summary or arbitrary Executions. Dr. Agnès Callamard has a distinguished career in human rights and humanitarian work globally. She spent nine years as the Executive Director of ARTICLE 19, the international human rights organization promoting and defending freedom of expression and access to information globally. Under her leadership, ARTICLE 19 reach and reputation flourished earning global recognition for its cutting edge public policy thinking on diverse issues including national security, equality and development. She founded and led HAP International (the Humanitarian Accountability Partnership), which is the first self-regulatory body for humanitarian agencies at the international level. Prior to this, Dr. Callamard was Chef de Cabinet for the Secretary General of Amnesty International (AI) and AI’s Research-Policy Coordinator, leading AI’s policy work and research on women’s human rights. Agnès has advised senior levels of multilateral organizations and governments around the world and has led human rights investigations in more than 30 countries. She has published broadly in the field of human rights, women’s rights, refugee movements and accountability and holds a PhD in Political Science from the New School for Social Research in New York. *Mohamed Yassine Jelassi is Secretary-General of the Syndicat National des Journalistes Tunisiens (SNJT), the national union of Tunisian journalists, the youngest Secretary-General since the union’s foundation. He worked with various print, e-media, and audiovisual media, and participated in producing documentary films. He is a graduate of the Press and Information Science Institute (IPSI, University of Manouba, Tunisia) and minored in political science. When at university, he was a member of the national students union (UGET) and SNJT, and active in the opposition against dictatorship. In December 2018, when Saudi Crown Prince Mohamed Bin Salman visited Tunisia, the SNJT organized a widely-covered demonstration to denounce the killing of Jamal Khashoggi. *Cansu Çamlıbel is the Editor-in-Chief of independent online newspaper Duvar English based in Istanbul, Turkey. She also writes a column on diplomacy and Turkish politics in the sister publication Gazete Duvar in Turkish. Prior to this role, she was the Washington Correspondent for the daily Hurriyet of Turkey for two years. Before her appointment to the U.S. capital she worked for Hurriyet in Istanbul in various roles including her 5 years as the political interviewer of the newspaper. She was awarded with ‘Nieman Journalism Fellowship’ at Harvard University for the 2015-2016 period. At Harvard, she made a comparative research on the modern day propaganda tactics of the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) in Turkey and the propaganda schemes of the Weimar Republic and Nazi Germany in 1930s. Prior to Hurriyet, Cansu Çamlıbel worked as the Brussels Correspondent of Turkish news network NTV. She holds a Master of Arts degree in International Journalism from the Cardiff University in the UK. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close