Skip to main content Utility Navigation Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Global For Penn Students For Penn Faculty For Alumni & Friends Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Global About News Map Campus Resources Grants Support Drawer Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Supporting Penn's Global Activities Resources Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn Global About Explore Back to main menu Penn Global Leadership & Staff Penn Global Divisions Explore Back to main menu Office of the Vice Provost for Global Initiatives Explore Back to main menu Our Team Finance and Administration Explore Back to main menu Inside the Business Office Explore Back to main menu Procurement Travel Payables Explore Back to main menu Non-Affiliate Payments International Wire Transfers Guest Travel & Honoraria Hire IT Penn Global Research Funds Contact Our Team Perry World House Penn Biden Center Penn Abroad International Student & Scholar Services Global Support Services Strategic Framework for Penn's Global Initiatives News Map Explore Back to main menu Penn in Africa Penn in Asia Explore Back to main menu Penn in China Penn in Latin America and the Caribbean Explore Back to main menu Penn in Latin America & the Caribbean (PLAC) Explore Back to main menu Who We Are What We Do Explore Back to main menu Annual PLAC Symposium Pulitzer International Reporting Student Fellowship Connect with PLAC Penn in Oceania Penn in the Middle East Penn in Northern America Campus Explore Back to main menu Global at Penn's Schools Global Centers & Programs Resources Grants Explore Back to main menu Global Engagement Fund China Research and Engagement Fund India Research and Engagement Fund Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund Support We are dedicated to providing strategic guidance, information, and support to the Penn community to advance the University's global initiatives. Travel Guidance Are you a member of the Penn community seeking support for your travel abroad? Check out our website dedicated to International Travel Guidance. From pre-departure support to 24/7 assistance while abroad, Penn is here to support you before, during, and after your trip. Go Back flight International Travel Guidance & Resources Go Back coronavirus COVID-19 Related Travel Guidelines & Procedures Go Back flight International Travel Guidance & Resources Go Back coronavirus COVID-19 Related Travel Guidelines & Procedures Resources by Activity Penn Global offers an array of programming, services, technical expertise (e.g., immigration and integration, travel and risk management, and global program development, etc.) as well as subject matter, region- and country-specific knowledge in support of Penn's global campus, operations, and activities. Below are key areas of responsibility and support. Go Back handshake Immigration & Integration International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides immigration support and guidance to international students, scholars, staff, and faculty across the University, including University central, Penn's twelve Schools, and the University of Pennsylvania Health System (UPHS). ISSS also delivers programs to enhance international student integration and create an inclusive global community at Penn. Programs include Forerunner, a pre-departure orientation program for incoming international students, and its award-winning Intercultural Leadership Program (ILP) through which students participate in a series of activities, simulations, and discussions that fosters a community of intercultural leaders at Penn. Visit ISSS Go Back explore Study Abroad Penn Abroad is the University's hub for student global opportunities. Opportunities include semester and academic year study abroad and a growing portfolio of short-term study abroad programs, such as the Global Research and Internship Program, Penn Global Seminars, and Penn Global Research Institutes. Visit their website to learn more about these global opportunities and explore the resources available to learn where Penn will take you. Begin Your Journey with Penn Abroad Go Back hub Global Policy Engagement Perry World House brings Penn’s academic knowledge to bear on some of the world’s most pressing global policy challenges and fosters international policy engagement within and beyond the Penn community. Perry World House presents a full roster of workshops and colloquia around its two research themes (i.e., the Future of the Global Order and Global Shifts), provides unique opportunities for Penn students to bridge the academic and policy worlds through its World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates programs, offers a number of opportunities for Penn faculty to integrate policy into their research and teaching activities, and hosts numerous other events for the public to engage with experts from Penn and beyond. Connect with Perry World House Go Back person_search Global Faculty Research Penn Global provides key support for faculty research initiatives around the world to advance Penn as a global leader in research and innovation. In addition to offering strategic guidance and tracking faculty global activities, Penn Global manages a competitive grant program that seeds creative, faculty-driven projects that catalyze entrepreneurial initiatives in a global context. The grant program consists of the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2020), India Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2017), China Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2015), and Global Engagement Fund (est. 2011). Learn More about Penn's Global Grant Program Go Back document_scanner Global Operations & International Travel Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including, but not limited to, the areas of risk, labor, tax, and compliance. Additionally, GSS manages the University's at-risk travel policy. GSS works closely with International Risk Management, Office of General Counsel, and Research Services, among many others to advise and support central organizations, Schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. Visit Global Support Services Go Back public Institutional Global Engagement Penn Global offers strategic guidance and support to the University on matters of institutional importance and global relevance, such as international trips and engagements, delegation visits, and the tracking and reporting of Penn's global engagement activities. Penn Global is also an important partner on University initiatives that include, but are not limited to, the Task Force on Support to Asian and Asian-American Students and Scholars and the At-Risk Scholars Program. Connect with Penn Global Go Back handshake Immigration & Integration International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides immigration support and guidance to international students, scholars, staff, and faculty across the University, including University central, Penn's twelve Schools, and the University of Pennsylvania Health System (UPHS). ISSS also delivers programs to enhance international student integration and create an inclusive global community at Penn. Programs include Forerunner, a pre-departure orientation program for incoming international students, and its award-winning Intercultural Leadership Program (ILP) through which students participate in a series of activities, simulations, and discussions that fosters a community of intercultural leaders at Penn. Visit ISSS Go Back explore Study Abroad Penn Abroad is the University's hub for student global opportunities. Opportunities include semester and academic year study abroad and a growing portfolio of short-term study abroad programs, such as the Global Research and Internship Program, Penn Global Seminars, and Penn Global Research Institutes. Visit their website to learn more about these global opportunities and explore the resources available to learn where Penn will take you. Begin Your Journey with Penn Abroad Go Back hub Global Policy Engagement Perry World House brings Penn’s academic knowledge to bear on some of the world’s most pressing global policy challenges and fosters international policy engagement within and beyond the Penn community. Perry World House presents a full roster of workshops and colloquia around its two research themes (i.e., the Future of the Global Order and Global Shifts), provides unique opportunities for Penn students to bridge the academic and policy worlds through its World House Student Fellows and Graduate Associates programs, offers a number of opportunities for Penn faculty to integrate policy into their research and teaching activities, and hosts numerous other events for the public to engage with experts from Penn and beyond. Connect with Perry World House Go Back person_search Global Faculty Research Penn Global provides key support for faculty research initiatives around the world to advance Penn as a global leader in research and innovation. In addition to offering strategic guidance and tracking faculty global activities, Penn Global manages a competitive grant program that seeds creative, faculty-driven projects that catalyze entrepreneurial initiatives in a global context. The grant program consists of the Holman Africa Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2020), India Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2017), China Research and Engagement Fund (est. 2015), and Global Engagement Fund (est. 2011). Learn More about Penn's Global Grant Program Go Back document_scanner Global Operations & International Travel Global Support Services (GSS) supports the administrative and business functions of the University’s international activities including, but not limited to, the areas of risk, labor, tax, and compliance. Additionally, GSS manages the University's at-risk travel policy. GSS works closely with International Risk Management, Office of General Counsel, and Research Services, among many others to advise and support central organizations, Schools and centers on new and ongoing international activities. Visit Global Support Services Go Back public Institutional Global Engagement Penn Global offers strategic guidance and support to the University on matters of institutional importance and global relevance, such as international trips and engagements, delegation visits, and the tracking and reporting of Penn's global engagement activities. Penn Global is also an important partner on University initiatives that include, but are not limited to, the Task Force on Support to Asian and Asian-American Students and Scholars and the At-Risk Scholars Program. Connect with Penn Global Resources by Penn Community We are committed to supporting all members of the Penn community interested in or actively engaging globally. Explore the many ways we work with Penn's diverse community to bring the world to Penn and Penn to the world. Go Back local_library Students Penn is committed to providing a meaningful global experience to every Penn student. We welcome students from every corner of the world, with a wide range of professional and personal interests, and provide the diverse opportunities for our vibrant community to engage in hands-on global experiences, whether through campus engagement, study abroad, service learning, or innovative research programs. We are also dedicated to providing the support, guidance, and programming to ensure our international students, scholars, staff and faculty across the University can thrive at Penn. How Can Penn Global Help You Go Back supervisor_account Faculty & Staff As part of its global mission, Penn is committed to supporting its faculty as they work across borders and disciplines to address the world's pressing challenges. Penn Global offers grants to support faculty teaching and research activities, programs to support faculty interested in engaging the global policy world, and administrative assistance for general faculty global activities, from developing an international agreement to welcoming an international visitor to campus. How Can Penn Global Help You Go Back school Alumni & Friends We are committed to bringing the world to Penn and Penn to the world and, with over 30,000 located abroad, alumni are integral to these efforts. Learn more about Penn's global mission and how you can get involved in our efforts, wherever you may be. And don't forget to connect with your colleagues and stay engaged with Penn! Engage with Penn Global Go Back local_library Students Penn is committed to providing a meaningful global experience to every Penn student. We welcome students from every corner of the world, with a wide range of professional and personal interests, and provide the diverse opportunities for our vibrant community to engage in hands-on global experiences, whether through campus engagement, study abroad, service learning, or innovative research programs. We are also dedicated to providing the support, guidance, and programming to ensure our international students, scholars, staff and faculty across the University can thrive at Penn. How Can Penn Global Help You Go Back supervisor_account Faculty & Staff As part of its global mission, Penn is committed to supporting its faculty as they work across borders and disciplines to address the world's pressing challenges. Penn Global offers grants to support faculty teaching and research activities, programs to support faculty interested in engaging the global policy world, and administrative assistance for general faculty global activities, from developing an international agreement to welcoming an international visitor to campus. How Can Penn Global Help You Go Back school Alumni & Friends We are committed to bringing the world to Penn and Penn to the world and, with over 30,000 located abroad, alumni are integral to these efforts. Learn more about Penn's global mission and how you can get involved in our efforts, wherever you may be. And don't forget to connect with your colleagues and stay engaged with Penn! Engage with Penn Global 1 College Hall Suite 122 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 global@upenn.edu Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy