Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Building Blocks Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students Events Past Event Building Blocks Social Entrepreneurship Workshop for High School Students Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Social Entrepreneurship November 2, 2020 - December 7, 2020 4:00 PM Online event Purpose The course is designed to give high school students an introduction to social entrepreneurship and their power to create innovative solutions for their local and global communities. Description The course includes lectures about how entrepreneurship is changing the world, how students can be a part of that change, and meetings with successful entrepreneurs sharing their lessons as master innovators. The course encourages students to put their skills to the test by working in teams to design ventures and present them at the conclusion of the program. Students are asked to bring their ideas, energy, questions, and to get ready for a jam-packed week of engaging with talented youth from across Nairobi all interested in making the world a better place. Objectives In our interconnected and rapidly advancing society, innovation and entrepreneurship are becoming increasingly important. Building Blocks seeks to respond to these new dynamics by inspiring the next generation of entrepreneurs. Specifically, Building Blocks looks to collaborate with Columbia Global Center | Nairobi to introduce high school students to social entrepreneurship. During the 5-6 Week workshop, students will: Apply an entrepreneurial way of thinking to yield social impact Become familiar with the commonly used business model canvas and funding terms Explore facets of ecopreneurship in conversation with UN Sustainable Development Goals Speak to founders about their entrepreneurial journeys Design their own ventures and present their pitches Curriculum Topics Week 1: Entrepreneurial Thinking - What is social entrepreneurship? Who is an entrepreneur? What problems exist and how can entrepreneurship be used to solve these problems? Week 2: Business Model Canvas & Funding Strategies - What are the core elements of a successful startup? How does one understand what a business does and how it makes money? Week 3: Ideation - Where do new venture ideas come from? How do founders tackle major social problems? How can one improve society with a sustainable and/or profitable business model? Week 4: Pitch Writing & Making - What is the role of storytelling in the venturing process? How do I tell a good story? What does it mean to have a good story? Week 5: Pitch Practices & Competition - Final touches on your presentation and perfecting your pitches! What are the key takeaways from the course? How does this all fit together? Facilitators Current and former members of the Columbia Organization of Rising Entrepreneurs (CORE) will lead curriculum development and course facilitation, with the possibility of additional student founders who are experienced in social entrepreneurship. Some Facilitator Profiles (among others): Irene Koo Irene (Heejin) Koo is a recent graduate of Columbia University, with coursework in economics and computer science. She was introduced to entrepreneurship and founded a startup in high school, which inspired her to co-design this curriculum. Teaching social entrepreneurship for the third year, Irene has taught in New York City, Amman, and Istanbul, in one-day conferences, weeks-long courses, and workshops abroad. At Columbia, she served as the 2018-2019 president of CORE, published research with the Columbia Earth Institute, and worked with accelerators and startups. Upon graduation, Irene will be working as a product manager. She plays racquetball and enjoys raising awareness about Korean culture in her free time. Justice Betty Justice Betty is the curriculum co-designer and has delivered the course content to students in the United States and Jordan. On-campus, Justice was VP of CORE. Justice graduated from Columbia as valedictorian with two bachelor’s degrees as part of the Dual BA Program between Columbia and Sciences Po Paris. Following graduation, Justice joined a management consulting firm, where alongside client work, she invests her time in gender equality and diversity initiatives. Intended Audience The intended audience for this workshop is approximately twenty high school students from Nairobi, Kenya who are interested in learning more about social entrepreneurship. Course Format Our workshop will incorporate both online and offline learning and collaboration, reflective of industry discussions of “future of work.” Our workshop will incorporate flipped teaching, with recordings of course content and online sessions. Prior to online sessions, instructors will provide students with taped and published course content through a private classroom portal. Online sessions will consist of activities, brainstorming, and collaboration exercises to add dimension to students’ understanding and engagement. For the duration of the workshop, there will be two hours of online sessions on each day. Instructors will provide regular office hours, chats with guest speakers on ecopreneurship, and feedback on students’ work. To check students’ understanding and mastery of the material, there will be short assignments and quizzes, and every student will present their idea through a pitch deck to a wider audience. Required Resources Students are required to have; A well-working laptop with internet connectivity Good command in English and fluency Can commit 2 hours per day for 5 to 6 Weeks. DON'T FORGET TO REGISTER BELOW! Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close