Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > International Student & Scholar Services > Glossary of Terms Glossary of Terms INTERNATIONAL STUDENT & SCHOLAR SERVICES About International Student & Scholar Services Apply for Admission International Student Life Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Many of the terms we use at the University of Tulsa and in the United States may be different than what you are used to in your home country. This page can be a guide for you during your application process and throughout your academic career here at TU. This is only a guide to assist you in understanding academic terms used at The University of Tulsa. For official Academic Policy consult the Undergraduate or Graduate Bulletins. Academic Adviser The person assigned to you by your college who helps in planning your course of study. Audit A class for which you have registered, but for which you will receive no academic credit. The fee is the same as for a course taken for credit. NOTE: Audited courses do not count toward full-time status for Immigration. Classification You are classified on the basis of the number of semester hours you have completed. The undergraduate classifications are: Freshman 0 – 29 hours Sophomore 30 – 59 hours Junior 60 – 89 hours Senior 90 + hours College A major academic unit of the university. TU is divided into six colleges: Arts & Sciences, Business Administration, Health Sciences, Engineering & Natural Sciences, Graduate, Law. Course Number The catalog number of each course. Courses numbered from 1001-1990 are primarily for freshmen, 2000-2990 for sophomores, 3000-3990 for juniors, 4000-4990 for seniors, and 7000+ for graduate students. The final number in the course numbers generally states the credit value of the course. CSAS The Center for Student Academic Support. This office provides academic counseling and tutoring for students who need additional support. Dead Week A common college term referring to the period of time between the end of classes and the start of final examinations each semester. During this period student organizations do not plan any activities; this allows for time to study for final examinations. At TU, “Dead Week” is usually referred to as “Reading Days,” and it accounts for two calendar days, rather than a full week. Drop Withdrawing from a course during the semester. A course may be dropped during the first three weeks of a semester with no academic penalty (that is, without it appearing on your transcript). After this date, and until the end of the twelfth week, you can drop a course, but you will receive an entry of “W” (withdraw) on your transcript. A W has no impact on the GPA. In order to drop a course, you must file a written request. Non-attendance of a class does not constitute a drop and a grade of WF (withdraw failing) is figured into your GPA. Remember you must not drop below the number of credit hours required by Immigration. Elective A course that you may choose in order to fulfill degree requirements but is not a specifically required course for your major. Enroll To register for a class (to add yourself or be added to a class). Faculty The university staff responsible for teaching graduate and/or undergraduate academic courses. Faculty Adviser The faculty member assigned by your college to help you plan your course of study. Grade Point Average (GPA) A general indication of your academic standing. For each credit hour that you earn an A, you receive 4 points; for each credit hour that you earn a B, you receive 3 points; a C, 2 points; a D, 1 point; and an F, 0 points. To compute your GPA, determine the total number of grade points earned, and divide by the total number of credit hours. Example: Course 1003 B 3 credit hours x 3 points = 9 points Course 1092 A 2 credit hours x 4 points = 8 points Course 1063 C 3 credit hours x 2 points = 6 points Course 1894 B 4 credit hours x 3 points = 12 points 12 credit hours 35 points PA = 35 points / 12 hours = 2.92 Incomplete A Grade (“I”) given to a student who is doing passing work in a class, but cannot finish the course work by the end of the semester. This grade is given at the discretion of the instructor and only for serious illness or other legitimate extenuating circumstances. The “I” must be removed within the time limits specified by the instructor. Due to immigration regulations, international students are not allowed to receive incompletes. If there is a possibility that you will receive an incomplete, please contact an immigration adviser in the ISS office as soon as possible. Instructor A university teacher who may or may not hold a Ph.D. in his or her area of expertise. An instructor is ranked below a professor. ISS International Student Services. This is the office that provides immigration information, help and general support for all international students at TU. Major The specific area of academic study on which you choose to focus. Upon completion of requirements set forth by the university and the specific college, you will receive a degree in your major field of study. Minor An additional, less intensive area of study you may choose to combine with your major. A minor requires fewer credit hours than a major. Pass/Fail You may take a limited number of courses without receiving a letter grade. Your intent to take a course Pass/Fail must be made in writing to the Records Office within the first three weeks of a semester. A “P” will be recorded on transcript for a grade of C or better; a “D” for a grade of D, and an “F” for a grade of F. Receipt of a “P” does not count towards your GPA, but a “D” or “F” does. There are certain restrictions on the use of this option, so consult your academic advising office first. Plagiarism To use someone else’s words or ideas and claim them as your own. Plagiarism is a serious academic offense and can result in a failing grade or dismissal from the university. Prerequisite A course that must be taken before you can enroll in a more advanced course. These can be found listed in the Undergraduate Bulletin course descriptions. Probation If you are admitted on academic probation and do not maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or above by the end of the spring semester, you may be dismissed from the university. It is also possible to be placed on probation after being admitted to the university if your cumulative GPA drops below 2.0. Every student’s academic record will be reviewed upon completion of each semester. Professor A university teacher of the highest rank. Typically, a professor holds a Ph.D. in his or her area of expertise and conducts research in this field. Resident Assistant (RA) A trained student who supervises residents living in a residence hall. When a minor issue arises in the residence hall, this is the first person a resident should contact for help. Resident Director (RD) A staff member who oversees a residence hall and supervises its RAs. When a residence hall issue or crisis is serious or cannot be solved by an RA, the RD will be the person to contact. Sevis Compliance Officer This is the ISS staff member who you should contact regarding immigration matters. This person is responsible for ensuring that TU follows all laws, rules, and regulations and remains eligible to host international students and research scholars. Syllabus A general outline/plan of a course. Some syllabi will be highly detailed while others will be more general. Information that may appear in a syllabus includes the grading scale, attendance policy, reading assignments, exams, upcoming projects and (most importantly) the professor’s office hours and contact information. Tutor This is a person you can hire to help you with a particular course. It is best to hire a tutor through CSAS to ensure that your tutor has been trained and has a strong background in his or her area. Teaching Assistant (TA) A graduate student who is assigned teaching duties. A TA may be assigned to teach a course on his or her own or may assist a professor by teaching a portion of a course. Transcript Your official academic record. This records all classes for which you have received a letter grade or other letter notation (P – Pass, F – Failure, I – Incomplete, W- Withdrew, WF – Withdrew Failing, AU – Audit), as well as transfer courses (only on the final transcript). Only the Records Office issues transcripts. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT