Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Penn Global Secondary Nav Penn Abroad For Incoming Exchange Students For Families For Faculty & Staff Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn Abroad Programs Planning & Resources Blog Events & Deadlines About Us Support Drawer Menu Penn Abroad Programs Explore Back to main menu Semester Abroad Explore Back to main menu Application Process & Deadlines Academic Information Financial Information Petition Programs Internships & Research Abroad Explore Back to main menu Global Research & Internship Program Explore Back to main menu Program Details Support GRIP Penn Global Research Institutes Campus Partner Programs Penn Global Seminars Explore Back to main menu Course Offerings by Term Funding & Application Process Lead a Penn Global Seminar Support PGS Summer Abroad Other Global Opportunities Explore Back to main menu Collaborative Online International Learning Gap Year Resources Explore Back to main menu Information & Programs Gap Year Ambassadors Penn Post-Gap Year Search by School Explore Back to main menu The College of Arts & Sciences The Wharton School Penn Nursing Penn Engineering Graduate & Professional Schools Exchange at Penn Explore Back to main menu Application & Financial Information Accepted Exchange Students Recent Exchange Students Explore Back to main menu Sharing the Exchange Experience Exchange Partners Frequently Asked Questions Sawiris Penn Scholars Explore Back to main menu Support Sawiris Planning & Resources Explore Back to main menu Why Go Abroad? Money Matters Explore Back to main menu Outside Scholarships Health & Safety Explore Back to main menu Assessing Safety Emergency Contact Information Diversity & Identity Abroad Explore Back to main menu Disability First-Generation Gender Heritage Seekers International Students LGBTQ+ Mental Health Privilege & Allyship Race & Ethnicity Religion & Spirituality Student Voices Explore Back to main menu Penn Abroad Ambassadors Explore Back to main menu Become an Ambassador Penn Abroad Leaders Ambassador Archive Global Correspondents Explore Back to main menu The Global Correspondents Share Your Story Pre-Departure Orientation Explore Back to main menu Step One: Preparing to Go Abroad Explore Back to main menu Logistics Preparation Travel Preparation Health & Insurance Staying Safe Abroad Adjusting to Your New Environment Documenting Your Experience Step Two: Program-Specific Information Visa Information Penn Campus Resources Returning to Penn Explore Back to main menu Become an Ambassador Explore Back to main menu Penn Abroad Leaders Ambassador Archive Share Your Story Photo Contest Blog Events & Deadlines About Us Explore Back to main menu Penn Abroad Team By the Numbers News & Announcements Contact Us Meet with an Advisor For Faculty & Staff Explore Back to main menu Lead a Penn Global Seminar For Families Support Search Group Created with Sketch. Where Will Penn Take You? Semester Study Abroad Establish yourself in a new global community through extended study for a semester or year. Learn More Penn Global Seminars Enroll in a course with a short-term, faculty-led travel component. Learn More Global Research & Internship Program Intern or conduct research abroad for eight to twelve weeks over the summer. Learn More Health & Safety Information that will help you prepare for a successful and rewarding time overseas. Learn More I Want To... Study Abroad for a Semester or Year Enroll in a Penn Global Seminar Intern or Research Abroad Study Abroad in the Summer Explore Other Global Opportunities Find Information for Families I am a Penn Student In... The College of Arts & Sciences Penn Engineering Penn Nursing The Wharton School A Graduate or Professional Degree Program @PennAbroad Follow Us Find What You Need Go Back attach_money Money Matters Penn Abroad is committed to making its global opportunities financially accessible to all students. It is important to understand the costs associated with going abroad, opportunities for funding, and how to create a realistic budget. Funding models differ by program with models developed to streamline processes and make programs affordable. explore Information by Program list Outside Scholarships Go Back healing Health & Safety The safety, security, and health of students abroad is our top priority. The Penn Abroad staff works closely with resources like the Office of Risk Management, International SOS, our local contacts onsite overseas, and our many campus partners to ensure. With these partners, we thoroughly review and vet programs, put contingency plans in place, and anticipate and mitigate student risk abroad. Abroad and in need of emergency assistance? EMERGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION healing Health & Safety language International SOS Go Back person Student Voices Getting a glimpse of the student experience and connecting with those that have gone abroad on our programs is a great way to learn more. face Our Ambassadors assignment Stories on our Blog record_voice_over The Global Correspondents Go Back assignment Access Your Application All Penn Abroad programs require an application through PASSPORT. If you have not already started an application, please note that some programs require a nomination or advising appointment to begin. You should check your program information for any advising requirement or to schedule an appointment to meet with your advisor. book PASSPORT person Meet with an Advisor Go Back chat Contact Us Penn Abroad is available to answer your questions and assist you as you plan and prepare. Explore our online resources, schedule an appointment, or reach out with questions. question_answer Contact Us person Meet with an Advisor assignment Our Mailing List Go Back contactless For Families Go Back attach_money Money Matters Penn Abroad is committed to making its global opportunities financially accessible to all students. It is important to understand the costs associated with going abroad, opportunities for funding, and how to create a realistic budget. Funding models differ by program with models developed to streamline processes and make programs affordable. explore Information by Program list Outside Scholarships Go Back healing Health & Safety The safety, security, and health of students abroad is our top priority. The Penn Abroad staff works closely with resources like the Office of Risk Management, International SOS, our local contacts onsite overseas, and our many campus partners to ensure. With these partners, we thoroughly review and vet programs, put contingency plans in place, and anticipate and mitigate student risk abroad. Abroad and in need of emergency assistance? EMERGENCY CONTACT INFORMATION healing Health & Safety language International SOS Go Back person Student Voices Getting a glimpse of the student experience and connecting with those that have gone abroad on our programs is a great way to learn more. face Our Ambassadors assignment Stories on our Blog record_voice_over The Global Correspondents Go Back assignment Access Your Application All Penn Abroad programs require an application through PASSPORT. If you have not already started an application, please note that some programs require a nomination or advising appointment to begin. You should check your program information for any advising requirement or to schedule an appointment to meet with your advisor. book PASSPORT person Meet with an Advisor Go Back chat Contact Us Penn Abroad is available to answer your questions and assist you as you plan and prepare. Explore our online resources, schedule an appointment, or reach out with questions. question_answer Contact Us person Meet with an Advisor assignment Our Mailing List Go Back contactless For Families Penn Abroad Blog See All Blogs GRIP, Research Abroad Diving Headfirst into Safeguarding by Bella Ozomaro, CAS '23 GRIP, Internships Abroad My First Two Weeks at UNESCO by Lina Oumera, MPH '23 Semester Abroad, Global Correspondents A Love Letter to London by Tammy Yang, Wharton '23 Semester Abroad, Global Correspondents Navigating My Korean-American Identity Abroad by Angelina Oh, CAS '23 Events & Deadlines See All Drop-In Options Each Week , by Appointment at Online Summer 2022 Drop-In Hours View Details Student Voices From Around the Globe Our Ambassadors Gabrielle Ramos, Penn Nursing '20 Ria Gandhi, Wharton '21 Aaron Chen, CAS '20 Cindy Luo, CAS '20 Simran Chand, CAS '21 Jia Wei Teo, Wharton '20 Naveed Matinfar, Wharton '20 Alex Ciullo, CAS '20 Penn Global Seminars - Chile Gabrielle Ramos, Penn Nursing '20 "I became increasingly aware of the importance of cultural humility and seeking to understand health and illness perception and care in different cultures. Being abroad allowed me to journey physically to a new place, but also mentally into another way of approaching healthcare." Read Full Bio GRIP - Singapore Ria Gandhi, Wharton '21 "I was able to delve deep into the startup ecosystem of Southeast Asia while also conducting due diligence on broader industry trends. My entire internship experience has furthered my interest in financial services, and I definitely see myself working in venture capital at some point in my career." Read Full Bio Semester Abroad - Lebanon Aaron Chen, CAS '20 "Going to Lebanon let me see the many ways in which religious and political identities often conflate, overlap, and even contradict through meeting all different kinds of people and learning their stories. The most valuable takeaway from my time abroad was learning empathy towards those with very different backgrounds from my own." Read Full Bio Penn Global Seminars - Singapore Cindy Luo, CAS '20 "You start to gain a global perspective the more you come in contact with different people and cultures. The more you challenge yourself to step outside of your comfort zone and to really immerse yourself in new cultures, the deeper your sense of compassion, tolerance, and understanding becomes.” Read Full Bio Multiple Programs - Australia/Spain Simran Chand, CAS '21 "My abroad experiences were purposely disconnected from my coursework and my major at Penn. I wanted to embark on travels that would broaden the scope of my knowledge base and expose me to fields of study and vocations that I was previously unfamiliar with. Both of my experiences did exactly that." Read Full Bio GRIP - China Jia Wei Teo, Wharton '20 "Interning at Project Pengyou and learning about US-China relations further confirmed my desire to major in Global Analysis and possibly minor in International Relations. It has definitely motivated me, even more, to study abroad in Asia in the future. If you're even considering, do it! There is no better and more opportune moment." Read Full Bio Semester Abroad - Spain Naveed Matinfar, Wharton '20 "Through my courses abroad, I was able to achieve an auspicious balance between liberal arts courses that extended my cultural fluency and business courses that taught me international business practices, all the while learning in Spanish." Read Full Bio Semester Abroad - Mexico Alex Ciullo, CAS '20 "Taking International Relations courses taught from a Mexican perspective greatly expanded my understanding of Mexico's foreign affairs. Learning about my own country from another country's point of view was extremely eye-opening and has helped me approach U.S. affairs with a much more holistic, objective mindset." Read Full Bio 01 / 08 3539 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Contact Us T (215) 898-9073 Web Accessibility Statement Stay Connected with Updates from Penn Abroad Newsletter signup Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Office of the Provost Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Privacy Policy