Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Talking with Data: Why is it Crucial in the COVID-19 Era? Events Past Event Talking with Data: Why is it Crucial in the COVID-19 Era? Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 21, 2020 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM Online Event Columbia Global Centers | Istanbul and Columbia Global Centers | Rio and Center for Sustainable Development invite you to a live webinar on "Talking with Data: Why is it Crucial in the COVID-19 Era?" The keynote will be delivered by Corinne Thompson; Epidemiologist, Bureau of Communicable Diseases, NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and Matthew Montesano, Data Communication Specialist, NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene followed by Jorge Kalil, Professor of Clinical Immunology, Allergy Director, Laboratory of Immunology, Heart Institute, School of Medicine, University of São Paulo and Banu Çakır, Professor of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Hacettepe University, who will speak about the Brazilian and Turkish experiences, respectively. The event will be moderated by Dr. Yanis Ben Amor, Executive Director, Center for Sustainable Development, Columbia University and Dr. Özge Karadağ Çaman, Senior Staff Associate, Columbia University. About the Talk COVID-19 related data collection and sharing practices vary among pandemic responses of countries across the world. The manner in which surveillance data is collected and shared with the public, academia, businesses, and other stakeholders in each jurisdiction can change the course of public health responses, which need to be built on public trust and tailored according to the countries’ real needs to be effective. This webinar will bring together experts from the US, Brazil and Turkey to present best practices and discuss current needs on public health data collection and sharing in the COVID-19 era. TIME: 10 am New York | 11 am Rio | 5 pm Istanbul DON`T FORGET TO REGISTER BELOW! Speakers Corinne Thompson is currently the Director of Epidemiology of Waterborne Diseases in the Bureau of Communicable Disease in the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. At the moment she is activated for the DOHMH response to COVID-19 and is a co-lead for the epidemiology and data unit. Prior to this position, Corinne earned her PhD from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine where she studied the epidemiology of pediatric dysentery in Vietnam. She also has an MSc from LSHTM and a BS in Biology from Penn State. Matthew Montesano is a Data Communication Specialist with the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene whose work focuses on synthesizing research from health communications, user experience design, and data visualization to communicate public health data in ways that are clear, useful, and equitable. Prof. Banu Çakır, MD, MPH, PhD, graduated in 1989 from Hacettepe University’s Faculty of Medicine in Ankara, Turkey. She obtained an MPH (EPI) degree from Emory University Rollins School of Public Health in 1996 and a PhD degree in Epidemiology from the Department of Public Health at the University of North Carolina in 2000. Prof. Çakır has been working at Hacettepe University since 1990, with a sabbatical period in 2008-2009 for work with the WHO, as National Program Officer for Noncommunicable Disease in Country Office-Turkey. Jorge Kalil is Professor of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, and Director of the Laboratory of Immunology at the Heart Institute (InCor), School of Medicine, University of São Paulo (FMUSP), Brazil. He is Adjunct Professor at George Washington University, DC, and at Case Westen University, Cleveland. Kalil graduated in Medicine in Brazil in 1977, and has a Master’s degree in Immunology and Immunogenetics, and is Doctor of Science in Human Biology, both from the University of Paris VII. He is Doctor Honoris causa by the University Pierre et Marie Curie (Sorbonne Universités, Paris, France) and from Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil). Moderators Dr. Ozge Karadag Caman works as a public health researcher at the Center for Sustainable Development. She earned her medical degree at Istanbul University, and her MSc and PhD Degrees in Public Health at Hacettepe University in Turkey. She also holds a postgraduate degree in health promotion from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Dr. Karadag Caman holds an associate professor of public health title in Turkey, with 15 years of academic experience in different higher education institutions in Turkey and abroad. She also has worked as a consultant for UNFPA, UNICEF, UNDP, UNHCR, IOM, WHO, and EU. Dr. Yanis Ben Amor is the Executive Director of the Center for Sustainable Development, a leading center on research around the Sustainable Development Goals based at Columbia University. Dr. Ben Amor is also the Director of the Tropical Laboratory Initiative, a program launched by Columbia to promote access to diagnostic services to patients in remote rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Dr. Ben Amor has a PhD in Molecular Biology, and a Masters in the same discipline from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure Agronomique de Rennes (Rennes, France). Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close