Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > World’s Challenge Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge The University of Tulsa joins some of the world’s best universities to compete in the International World’s Challenge Challenge. Students form diverse teams of two to four to choose a global issue and design a unique solution. The teams will then present their unique solutions to panel of TU academic leaders and administrators who will judge the presentations and ideas. The top team will compete in the virtual international finals in June 2022. Accommodation for the top team members will be provided, and they will have an opportunity to network with some of the best and brightest students from around the world. The mission of the competition is to bring together students from a wide range of institutions, cultures and continents to form a strong international network and create even greater potential solutions to significant global issues. Who can participate? At TU, this competition is open to all students: undergraduate and graduate. We encourage teams to bring together individuals from diverse backgrounds or areas of study. Only teams of two to four students are accepted to the competition. How does it work? Students submit applications with a synopsis of their chosen issue or problem, and how they propose to address it. Once all applications are reviewed to ensure they meet entry qualifications, students are given a few weeks to prepare a five to seven minute presentation to sell their solution. Presentations will be scored with a rubric. The first round of presentations selects semi-finalist teams who will move on to the final presentation round. Global Final Prizes First prize is $30,000 (CAD) Second prize is $15,000 (CAD) Third prize is $7,500 (CAD) Payment is made to individual team members in Canadian Dollars (CAD) The intention for prize money is to help further develop the proposed solution and support implementation. How to Apply? The deadline to apply is Sunday, January 30, 2022. The initial round of presentations will take place at the end of January and the finals will take place at the end of February. Please follow the link and complete the registration form for the The University of Tulsa World’s Challenge Challenge. The 2021/22 applications are now open. Apply Now If you have any questions, please email Lara Foley. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT