Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Information Session on Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies Events Past Event Information Session on Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 18, 2020 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Online Time: 6:30-8:00 pm (India) | 1:00-2:30 pm (GMT) | 9:00-10:30 am (New York) Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai invites you to an online information session on Columbia University’s School of Professional Studies (SPS) covering a range of STEM and non-STEM programs and the services available to help you achieve your academic and professional goals. Purposeful in its mission, the School of Professional Studies provides a rigorous education informed by rapidly evolving global market requirements, with a focus on professional degree offerings, market-specific academic programming, and cross-disciplinary scholarly research. In the session you will: Meet SPS faculty and learn about the school’s scholar-practitioner model Discover the school’s dedicated Career Design Lab for students Connect with current students and alumni, and start building your own network Presentations will be followed by an interactive Q&A session. About the Speakers: Gregory Costanzo is Director of Employer Relations at the School of Professional Studies’ Career Design Lab where he engages the private, public, and non-profit sectors to cultivate relationships that result in gainful employment opportunities for students and alumni. Mr. Costanzo’s holistic approach to delivering career management and development strategies focuses on helping students and alumni increase self-awareness and promote intentional job and internship search strategies. Prior to joining Columbia University, he has served as Director of Career Services for the College of the Arts (CART) at Montclair State University, taught as an adjust professor at Loyola’s Quinlan School of Business, and worked as a Senior Operations Analyst at Lehman Brothers. Mr. Costanza holds a B.S. in Finance and M.Ed. in College Student Affairs from Rutgers University. Dr. Siddhartha Dalal is Professor of Professional Practice in Applied Analytics at the School of Professional Studies, Columbia University. Prior to joining Columbia University, Professor Dalal was Chief Data Scientist and Sr. VP at AIG, where he was in charge of R&D that included creation and application of AI, Statistics and CS to Computer Vision, Natural Language Processing and Sensors/IOT for managing risks. He came to AIG from RAND Corporation, where was the CTO. He has also served as VP of Research at Xerox, overseeing their worldwide imaging and software services research, and Bell Labs and Bellcore/SAIC as Chief Scientist and Executive Director. Professor Dalal has over 100 peer-reviewed publications, patents, and monographs covering the areas of risk analysis, medical informatics, Bayesian statistics and economics, image processing and sensor networks. He is a member of US Army Science Board, an advisory board of 20 scientists appointed by Secretary of Defence to advise US Army on technology, and has received several awards including from Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), American Statistical Association (ASA), and American Society for Quality (ASQ). Professor Dalal holds an PhD in Statistics and MBA from the University of Rochester. Ankit Gupta is a current student at the School of Professional Studies, Columbia University where he is a M.S. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) candidate, set to graduate in December 2020. Mr. Gupta has previously worked for close to 5 years with Reliance Industries as a Risk Manager and at Howden India as a Risk Consultant. At Columbia, he has worked with the ERM leadership during the Spring semester in employer and alumni engagement, and joined Genworth Financial as an ERM intern this summer. Mr. Gupta is also the current President of Indian Student Association at Columbia (ISAC) and is an active member of Columbia Graduating Consulting Club (CGCC). He holds an MBA in Insurance Risk Management from the National Insurance Academy, Pune and B.Tech in Computer Engineering from Bharati Vidyapeeth. Arpit Pandey is Assistant Vice President at Citigroup’s Risk division and is a recent alumni of the School of Professional Studies’ M.S. in Enterprise Risk Management program at Columbia University. Prior to joining Columbia, Mr. Pandey has worked with MNCs such as IBM, Standard Chartered, Citigroup and Vodafone, communicating and driving their risk management and compliance strategies along with execution across global stakeholders. He has worked across markets in Asia, Africa, North America and Europe and developed expertise in global stakeholder management, quantifying risk and value-based risk management. Mr. Pandey also holds an MBA in Finance and Analytics from the IIT-Madras and B.Tech in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, and is FRM certified, CFA L2 candidate and a Gold Medallist in the International Mathematics Olympiad. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close