Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > International Student & Scholar Services > Pre-Arrival Information for Undergraduate Students Pre-Arrival Information for Undergraduate Students INTERNATIONAL STUDENT & SCHOLAR SERVICES About International Student & Scholar Services Apply for Admission International Student Life Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions The Center for Global Engagement Office looks forward to welcoming you to our campus. We want to make your educational experience at the University of Tulsa both rewarding and enjoyable. CGE is located on the Third Floor of Holmes Student Center at Hardesty Hall. Walk-in hours are 11am-3pm, Monday thru Friday, please stop by our office during walk-in hours if you have any questions. Not sure what to pack? Watch the Pre-Arrival Video (to the left) to hear advice from current TU students. Consider bringing your national dress, musical instruments and/or artifacts with you to the U.S. You will have many opportunities to share them while you are here, including the University of Tulsa’s International Education Week Celebration. Students living in China will need to view the video on Youku.com Enrollment Fee New students must pay a non-refundable $200 fee before enrolling in classes. Enrollment for fall classes opens in May and continues until classes begin. The admissions office will assist you with the enrollment process after we receive your enrollment fee. Pay Enrollment Fee TU Online Student Account Students who will attend TU need to activate their TU online account to access important university services including the campus housing application. Visit our TU Net ID and Password Setup page for instructions to activate your student account. Please note, the TU student account is different from the admission application account and is used for university services. New Student Orientation New undergraduate students are encouraged to attend New Student Orientation before classes begin. Orientation is a week-long experience full of helpful information, fun activities, and the opportunity to make friends. New students will be placed in a small group led by a successful current TU student. Visit the New Student Orientation site for more information. Sign up for New Student Orientation! Arrival Students living on campus will receive a written notice of room assignment and move-in details from the housing office approximately 3 to 4 weeks before arrival. Students attending New Student Orientation may check into their room on Sunday at the beginning of orientation week. Undergraduate who do not attend orientation may check into their room on Saturday before classes begin. We strongly recommend that students arrive at the TU campus on a designated housing check-in date or during regular business hours Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. CST to 5:00 p.m. CST, for best assistance from the university. Students who arrive before their approved check-in date should plan to stay in a hotel until their room assignment is available. If you have questions about arrival please contact the Center for Global Engagement Office in advance at globalengagement@utulsa.edu or +1-918-631-2329. If you are on campus and need assistance when university offices are closed, campus security can be reached +1-918-631-5555. Transportation & Hotels Flights should be booked to Tulsa International Airport (airport code TUL), which is located approximately six miles northeast of campus. Taxis, Uber, and Lyft are all available for onward transport to campus; taxi fare is typically around $16, not including tip. For those needing accommodation in advance of moving into a campus residence hall or apartment, the TU website maintains a list of area hotels. Immigration It is important that all international students maintain their immigration status in order to remain in the United States. U.S. Immigration procedures and policies change frequently. The Office of International Student & Scholar Services is happy to help you with any immigration issues and answer immigration questions. However, please remember that it is your responsibility to know and understand all current information that pertains to maintaining legal immigration status. For up-to-date immigration information, please see the USCIS website. SEVIS Fee: The University of Tulsa is discontinuing the reimbursement of this fee. The last day for a student to request a SEVIS fee reimbursement is June 30th, 2020. VISA International students must obtain a visa that allows study in the USA. An I-20 form is provided to admitted students who will apply for the F-1 visa. For students currently attending school in the USA who already have an F-1 visa, a SEVIS transfer form is included in the admission packet and the student must request transfer of the I-20 from their current school. For families living in the USA with other types of visas, it is the student’s responsibility to ensure the current visa allows university study or to inform International Student & Scholar Services immediately of any plan to apply for an F-1 visa. Immigration Check-In on Campus After arriving in Tulsa, international students must visit the International Student & Scholar Services office for a required immigration check-in appointment. This appointment should be completed within 1 week of arrival. Prior to their arrival, students will be contacted with information and details about the immigration check-in process 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT