Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Themes Critical Dialogues for Just Societies Critical Dialogues for Just Societies The Paris Center brings the humanities and the sciences into dialogue to transcend disciplinary limitations and to think through the myriad challenges facing our world. Our programs address a wide-range of topics: from global inequality and systemic racism, to technology’s impact on the future of democracy. FEATURED CONTENT Video: Joseph Stiglitz and Thomas Piketty in Dialogue Video: American Resistance, Looking Back while Marching Forward Debating The Future of Europe: How Can Europe Achieve Social Justice? Related Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events. Related News May 01, 2021 Pour une Europe de la justice sociale Cet entretien a été publié par Le Grand Continent. Tags Paris Press Paris Public April 10, 2021 L'Europe peut-elle mener la lutte contre le changement climatique ? Cet entretien a été publié par Le Grand Continent. Tags Paris Press Climate and Environment March 22, 2021 Event Recap: Can Europe be Sovereign? Tags Debating the Future of Europe February 16, 2021 Event Recap: Is there a European Identity? A panel of experts debate the 'slippery' question of European identity. Tags Debating the Future of Europe February 01, 2021 Event Recap: Is Europe Democratic? Reflecting on the EU’s ‘democratic deficit’ in the post-Brexit era. Tags Debating the Future of Europe October 06, 2020 The Future of Europe: Pierre-André Chiappori and Thierry Grillet in Conversation October 6, 2020, Columbia Global Centers | Paris launches a new collaborative series of debates dedicated to the future of Europe, featuring leading scholars from Columbia and prominent creative writers, intellectuals, and journalists from the European Union. Tags Paris Debating the Future of Europe European Union Columbia Collaborations Alliance September 17, 2020 Economists Joseph Stiglitz and Thomas Piketty Address Converging Crises on Inequality The pandemic, the presidential election, globalization, climate change, and other issues are covered in a transatlantic forum. Tags Joseph Stiglitz Thomas Piketty Le Monde January 17, 2020 Joie d'offrir, plaisir d'être fiché Un entretien avec Prof. Bernard Harcourt dans Télérama. Tags Paris Press Bernard Harcourt October 17, 2019 The Art of Power What role does art production play in contemporary geopolitics? How does the global art market reflect changes in a nation’s political, economic and cultural influence? French gallery owner Nathalie Obadia responded to these questions and more in her conversation with artist Valérie Belin. Tags Geopolitics Contemporary Art October 11, 2019 Computers Accessing Human Brain: Columbia Neuroscientist Calls for Regulation Tags Rafael Yuste technology Research Department of Biological Sciences Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Columbia Commitments: Future of Neuroscience CGC Santiago Latin American law August 29, 2019 Paris Center Stories: Anjana Tiwari, Alliance Summer School 2019 Anjana Tiwari, a participant in the Alliance Summer School in Sustainable Development, shares her experience in Paris and her latest projects in urban risk assessment. Tags Paris Stories Education Research CGC Stories: Students May 06, 2019 Protecting Migrants and Refugees -- Terra Incognita and the Justice Gap For people leaving the Mediterranean, the likelihood of dying is now much higher than what it was in 2016. This is according to the Director of Global Health in Emergency Medicine at New York-Presbyterian and Columbia University Medical Center, Craig Spencer, MD. Spencer, coordinated Doctors Without Borders’ (MSF) national epidemiological response in Guinea during the Ebola outbreak and has provided medical care onboard a MSF medical search and rescue boat in the Mediterranean. Tags Mailman School of Public Health Migration Refugee Crisis Paris Public Health and Medical Science May 06, 2019 DNA and Designing Babies: Two Conferences on Bioethics In February, the Paris Center hosted two conferences that charted the complex, under-explored world of bioethics in relation to US policy, professional practice, law, and designer babies. Tags Mailman School of Public Health Paris Public Health and Medical Science May 06, 2019 Jacques Derrida, penseur de l’accélération technologique Ce texte est publié dans The Conversation à l’occasion du colloque « Derrida et la technologie » organisé à Paris les 2, 3, 4 mai 2019 au Columbia Global Centers l Paris. Tags Paris Press Paris Research April 19, 2019 Celebrating Maryse Condé, a Writer for Our Times The Paris Center welcomed acclaimed author Maryse Condé, recipient of the 2018 New Academy Prize in Literature, for a day-long celebration of her work and legacy. Tags Paris Public Paris Research Paris Education February 28, 2019 Q&A with photographer Maxime Riché, SEAS'05 Riché presented his Climate Heroes project at the Paris Center and did a TedTalk looking for people and answers dealing with a changing climate. Tags Paris Stories Alumni Global Themes: Science, Engineering, and Environment news CGC Stories: Alum Alumni News CGC Stories: Alum February 14, 2019 Le savant et le mouvement Le Grand Continent a retranscrit et synthétisé la discussion sur le mouvement des gilets jaunes animée en janvier par Bernard Harcourt, au Columbia Global Centers de Paris. Un dialogue à plusieurs voix qui rassemble des intellectuels, historiens, philosophes, penseurs et spécialistes des mouvements sociaux. Tags Paris Press January 25, 2019 CALL FOR PAPERS: Populist Power, Faith, and Precarity in Europe – Paris, France The Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life (IRCPL) at Columbia University in collaboration with the Columbia Global Center | Paris and co-sponsored by our partners in Europe, is organizing a conference entitled “Populist Power, Faith, and Precarity in Europe.” The conference will consider various forms of popular power in Europe by examining how populism is defined in various contexts, the role of historical movements in the present-day construction of populist narratives and rhetoric(s), how the use of religious identity shapes these movements, as well as the relationship between December 18, 2018 Sex after '68 A conference organized in partnership with the University of Kent Paris School of Arts and Culture examines the legacy of May '68 in contemporary sexuality. Tags Sexuality May '68 November 26, 2018 CFP Students: Health Beyond Borders, CHCI Medical Humanities Network FOR STUDENTS: “Health Beyond Borders” The CHCI Health and Medical Humanities Network is a partnership of over 30 universities worldwide working in the medical and health humanities. In 2019, the annual Summer Institute of the CHCI HMHN will be hosted by Columbia Global Centers | Paris, with the theme, “Health Beyond Borders.” Tags Medical Humanities November 26, 2018 CFP: Health Beyond Borders, CHCI Medical Humanities Network FOR CONFERENCE PROPOSALS: The CHCI Health and Medical Humanities Network is a partnership of over 30 universities worldwide working in the medical and health humanities. In 2019, the annual Summer Institute of the CHCI HMHN will be hosted by Columbia Global Centers | Paris, with the theme, “Health Beyond Borders.” Tags Medical Humanities October 23, 2018 A Meeting of Minds (and Bodies) at the Three Souls Conference Tags Paris Research Medical Humanities Health and Medical Science October 16, 2018 French 'Artivist' Partners with 2018 Nobel Prize Winner to Help Victims of Sexual Violence through Dance The Paris Center inaugurated its fall 2018 cultural season with an event that brought dancers, choreographers, and health professionals together to highlight the project Re-Creation by Loba, which uses dance as a tool for the physical and psychological transformation of victims of sexual violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Tags Health and Medical Science October 16, 2018 The Youth Climate Leaders Program Debuts in Paris In July, the Paris Center hosted a day-long workshop with the Youth Climate Leaders (YCL) program, an initiative developed by SIPA alumna Cassia Moraes. Tags Paris Research Paris Education September 17, 2018 Paris Center Stories: Bolewa Sabourin Bolewa Sabourin est danseur-chorégraphe et “artiviste”. Cofondateur de l’association LOBA, il intervient en France et au Congo pour faire de la danse un outil de lutte citoyenne et de reconstruction psychologique auprès des personnes les plus fragiles. Il présente cet automne à CGCl Paris deux événements organisés dans le cadre de notre saison culturelle, “Borderline”. Tags Paris Stories Health and Medical Science July 31, 2018 'Silvered Water': Director Ossama Mohammed in Conversation with Richard Peña and Madeleine Dobie On July 16, Professor Richard Peña presented “Silvered Water: A Syrian Self-Portrait” by exiled filmmaker Ossama Mohammed at the Paris Center. A conversation with Mohammed and Professor Madeleine Dobie followed the screening. June 27, 2018 Professor Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak at the Paris Center June 20-22, the Paris Center co-hosted a three-day colloquium honoring the works of Professor Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. Tags Paris Research Paris Education June 26, 2018 High School Students Imagine Solutions to Big Tech Questions The ThinkNation Discovery Stage Workshop invited young people to work with mentors to identify the challanges and opportunities created by advances in technology. Tags Paris Education Paris Research June 15, 2018 Will We Ever Understand Each Other? Area Studies and Western Policy toward Russia As tensions between Russia and the West reach increase, the Harriman Institute asks: “What role does the academy play in our current attempts to understand each other?” Tags Paris Public March 15, 2018 Paris Center Stories: Le Filon On March 8, the Paris Center and Reid Hall celebrated International Women's Day with a fundraiser benefitting Le Filon, an association helping homeless women in Paris. The following is an interview with Perrine Boyer, president of the association. Tags Paris Stories CGC Stories: Partners February 16, 2018 Paris Center Stories: Yasutomo Uemura, Professor of Physics Yasutomo Uemura is Professor of Physics at Columbia University, and presently visiting Paris as a Visiting Professor at Ecole Polytechnique, supported by the Alliance faculty exchange program. Tags Paris Stories CGC Stories: Faculty February 13, 2018 Paris Center Stories: Maria Paula Carvalho (JRN '13) In her new book, Brazil: A Reconstruction, journalist Maria Paula Carvalho (JRN '13) shares insights on the current state of political and economic affairs in her home country. Tags Paris Stories books Columbia Commitments: Just Societies CGC Stories: Alum January 08, 2018 "La Tunisie n’est pas un modèle pour le monde arabe" L’universitaire Safwan Masri soutient, dans un entretien au « Monde », que la transition démocratique tunisienne s’explique par des facteurs endogènes difficilement reproductibles. Tags Paris Press Safwan Masri Book November 27, 2017 Safwan M. Masri and Andrew Hussey discuss Masri’s book, Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly A young and diverse public gathered at the Paris Center on October 17 to discuss Safwan M. Masri’s recent book, Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly. Tags Safwan Masri books Tunis Public Tunis: Political Science October 03, 2017 Uprising 13/13: A Reading Group Following our fruitful collaboration with the Nietzsche 13/13 seminars led by Professors Bernard Harcourt and Jesús Velasco on the Columbia campus, the Paris Center will once more host a reading group in parallel to this year’s Uprising 13/13 seminar series focusing on dissent and revolution. Tags Paris Public Paris Education Bernard Harcourt CCCCT September 08, 2017 It’s All Relative: Condensed Matter Physics at the Paris Center Every Friday this fall, the Paris Center will host a series of lectures on condensed matter physics led by international leaders in the field. Tags Paris Education January 01, 2017 Thirteen Ways to Look at Nietzsche Can re-reading Friedrich Nietzsche shed light on our troubled times? A new reading group organized by the Paris Center and the Columbia MA in History and Literature thinks so. Tags Nietzsche Paris Education December 05, 2016 A Surprise Visit from a Former French President Former French President, Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, made a surprise visit to the Paris Center on November 30th. Tags Alumni Politics Paris Public November 24, 2016 Elections 2016 On the night of November 8, Americans in Paris were glued to their screens as they followed the voting in the U.S. The Paris Center offered an election day livestream of CNN and broadcast of France 24, to allow people to watch the big day from both French and American perspectives. Tags Politics Media Paris Public October 13, 2016 Our Story is Our Story: Reflections on Race and Racism With the approach of the American elections and the debate on police accountability fueling the Black Lives Matter movement, Columbia Global Centers | Paris and the MA in History and Literature decided to dedicate the first week in October to a series of events organized around the topic of “Race and Racism: Global Perspectives.” Tags Paris Public Paris Education September 29, 2016 Race and Racism: Global Perspectives In celebration of the launch of the exhibition “The Color Line” at the Musée Quai Branly, the Center will dedicate the first week of Tags Paris Public September 20, 2016 Adressing Urgent Global Issues As Europe experiences continuing challenges to its social and economic security, the Paris Center is a hub of discussion and debate of today’s most critical issues. Tags Can Science Save the World? June 24, 2016 Alliance Summer School in Science and Policy For the fifth year, the Paris Center welcomed in June the Alliance Summer School in Science and Policy in Paris. Tags Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Columbia Commitments: Climate Response April 08, 2016 Synthetic Biology and Study Abroad: An Interview with Columbia Student Deja Robinson Columbia student Deja Robinson was recently selected to participate in the iGem competition, as part of a team at the Pasteur Institute. Tags Columbia Commitments: Data and Society Paris Education Paris Stories Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close