Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Global Travel Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Plan Advisories & Alerts Resources Health International SOS (ISOS) Emergency Abroad FAQ About Global Travel and the ITPP What is Columbia Travel? Planning CU-Related International Travel Undergraduate International Travel Policy Travel to High and/or Extreme Travel Risk and Columbia Restricted Countries Health Insurance Columbia Health: Travel Medicine CUMC: Travel Services What is International SOS (ISOS)? Register Your International CU Travel TravelTracker for Administrators Global Travel You are here: Home Resources Resources Expand all Collapse all Columbia University Resources Undergraduate International Travel Policy These policies and procedures are required of the undergraduate students of Columbia College, Columbia University, and the School of General Studies, as well as any undergraduate or graduate students taking part in programming run, funded or facilitated by Undergraduate Student Life, Global Programs and Fellowship and/or the Center for Career Education. Undergraduate International Travel Policy International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) ISSO can assist international students and scholars with various services including visas and travel and tax information. International Students & Scholars Office A travel signature is relevant only to F-1 students or J-1 students (and their dependents) who are planning to travel abroad and return to the U.S. in F or J status. You must have an unexpired travel signature on the date you re-enter the U.S. Travel Signatures and Passport Renewal (F and J Students) International Travel Tips for Non-immigrant Visa Holders International Travel Tips for Non-immigrant Visa Holders International Student and Scholars Office (ISSO) Data and Technology Given that traveling with certain devices can be difficult, it is recommended that travelers only take necessary devices and each traveler, or group leader, reviews the Data Security Guidelines for International Travel. For more information, please see Data and Technology. Export Controls "Export control regulations control the conditions under which certain technology, commodities and software can be transmitted overseas to individuals, including U.S. citizens, or to a foreign national on U.S. soil." Columbia Research - Export Controls Columbia Research - International Research Committee "To help researchers plan for risks and requirements that may be associated with international projects, the University has established Risk Management Procedures. The Procedures provide a mechanism for the project team and University to identify and manage risks. The Procedures also will assist the University in the development of a database of information relating to international projects, so that information can be more easily collected and shared." International Research Columbia Global Centers "Columbia Global Centers facilitate the collaborative engagement of University faculty, students, and alumni with the world, to enhance understanding, address global challenges, and advance knowledge." Columbia Global Centers Columbia University Travel Health/Travel Medicine Columbia Health - Travel Medicine (Morningside) Travel Services - CUMC Columbia Health - Sexual Violence Response Sexual Violence Response "provides trauma-informed, confidential support through crisis counseling/intervention, advocacy, prevention, and outreach." SVR support is available 24/7, 365 days a year via the SVR Helpline 212-854-HELP (4357) Columbia University Global Treasury Operations "The Global Treasury Operations team provides treasury services and resources to Columbia University schools/departments related to cash management, global bank relationships, merchant account services and PCI compliance, acceptance of funds, and foreign exchange. The department manages commercial banking relationships and banking account structure." For more information, please visit Global Support. Columbia Travel & Expense Here, you'll find Columbia's services and tools to support your University travel and business expense needs, including reimbursements. Expand all Collapse all External Resources Country-Specific Election Guide National and Public Holidays around the world OSAC Crime and Safety Reports U.S. Embassies and Consulates Law By Country Traveler-Specific LGBTQIA+ Travel: LGBTI Travel Information (U.S. Department of State) Man About World International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA) Information for Women Travelers (U.S. Department of State) Traveling with Disabilities (U.S. Department of State) Racial & Ethnic Minority Students Abroad (Diversity Abroad) Students with Disabilities Abroad (Diversity Abroad) Travelers with Disabilities (U.S. Department of State) Health Related CDC Traveler's Health World Health Organization (WHO) - International travel and health Other International Travel (U.S. Department of State) Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Driving and Road Safety Abroad (U.S. Department of State) Association for Safe International Road Travel (ASIRT) Country Calling Codes Currency Converter Jasmine Jahanshahi Fire Safety Foundation International SOS Training Hub International SOS offers a training hub for those preparing to go abroad on Columbia-related Travel. Courses range in topics, such as Food and Water Safety, Hotel Safety, Petty Crime, and more. To visit the ISOS Training Hub, please click here. Upon course completion, users have the option of printing a completion certificate. For more information regarding the ISOS Training Hub, please read the ISOS Training Hub Learner Guide. COVID-19 Travel Resources ISOS COVID Trip Planner ISOS Travel Restrictions, Flight Operations and Screening CDC COVID-19 Travel Recommendations by Destination [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close