Skip To Content Skip To Navigation University of Notre Dame Notre Dame Research Eck Institute for Global Health Menu About Research Faculty Education & Training Funding News & Events Search Search Health is a fundamental human right. The University of Notre Dame's Eck Institute for Global Health (EIGH) serves as a university-wide enterprise that recognizes health as a fundamental human right and works to promote research, training, and service to advance health standards and reduce health disparities for all. The EIGH brings together multidisciplinary teams to understand and address health challenges that disproportionately affect the poor and to train the next generation of global health leaders. Master of Science Join the Master of Science in Global Health program The two-year Master of Science in Global Health (MSGH) program enables students to bridge classroom training with complex, real health needs of low-resource communities around the world through hands-on experience. Apply Today Spotlight Q&A with Jessica Carney Jessica is a current EIGH graduate student fellow. In this Q&A, she discusses her passion for studying interpersonal violence, her work in the BRAVE lab, and her plans for the future. Read More Research Attend the 2022 Arthropod Genomics Symposium! Taking place at Notre Dame, this year's symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from analyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scientists interested in genomic studies of arthropods, including arthropod vectors of disease, model organisms and those of agricultural relevance. Register Here Where we work Conducting novel research to advance health standards around the world. News Notre Dame Research announces 2022 Internal Grants Awardee Twenty-three new internal grants awards were announced today by Notre Dame Research. The grants were awarded to faculty from three Colleges and Schools in two categories: Equipment Restoration and Renewal and Library Acquisition. “Continuing to invest in the resources that... MNID is Back! MNID is back! The only regional meeting focusing on fungal and parasitic infections, an excellent opportunity for the Midwest mycology and parasitology community to meet in a relatively small group and learn from each other. We have a great lineup... Blog: "Is Bangladesh entering the Era of Malaria Elimination?" Eck Institute for Global Health affiliates Kasturi Haldar (Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. Professor, Biological Sciences) and Neil Lobo (Research Professor, Biological Sciences) recently contributed to a blog featured on PLOS: Speaking of Medicine and Health for World Malaria Day. Featured Videos ND Research Explores: The Eck Institute for Global Health RECORDING: 2021 George B. Craig, Jr. Memorial Lecture featuring Brian Foy, PhD RECORDING: "Lessons from the AIDS epidemic" featuring James W. Curran, MD, MPH Events Arthropod Genomics Symposium: Pre-Symposium Workshop Time: 6:00PM - 9:00PM Location: Jordan Hall of Science Jun 5 Pre-Symposium Workshop ahead of the 2022 Arthropod Genomics Symposium (AGS) A 5 day pre-symposium workshop (June 5-9) will provide a hands-on training for utilizing the bioinformatics resources and data available in VEuPathDB/VectorBase… Read More Arthropod Genomics Symposium: Pre-Symposium Workshop Time: 8:00AM - 5:00PM Location: Jordan Hall of Science Jun 6 Pre-Symposium Workshop ahead of the 2022 Arthropod Genomics Symposium (AGS) A 5 day pre-symposium workshop (June 5-9) will provide a hands-on training for utilizing the bioinformatics resources and data available in VEuPathDB/VectorBase… Read More Arthropod Genomics Symposium: Pre-Symposium Workshop Time: 8:00AM - 5:00PM Location: Jordan Hall of Science Jun 7 Pre-Symposium Workshop ahead of the 2022 Arthropod Genomics Symposium (AGS) A 5 day pre-symposium workshop (June 5-9) will provide a hands-on training for utilizing the bioinformatics resources and data available in VEuPathDB/VectorBase… Read More EIGH on Twitter @ndeckinstitute More @ndeckinstitute on Twitter Home About Research Faculty Education & Training Funding News & Events Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Eck Institute for Global Health Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Accessibility Information Twitter Facebook