Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Frontiers in Biomedicine 2: 2018 Joint Symposium Events Past Event Frontiers in Biomedicine 2: 2018 Joint Symposium Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo September 24, 2018 - September 25, 2018 9:00 AM - 8:00 PM The Faculty Club, 630 West 168th Street, 4th Floor New York, NY 10032 On Sept. 24 and 25, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the 2018 Joint Symposium of Frontiers in Biomedicine 2 between Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons and Zhejiang University School of Medicine. The joint symposium will promote collaboration, interaction in innovative research, and the discussion of future joint projects. Agenda Monday, September 24, 2018 The Faculty Club, 630 West 168th Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10032 MORNING, Monday, September 24, 2018 9:00 Welcome host: Stanley Chang, M.D. Co-Chair and Medical Director of the Wu Family China Center, K.K. Tse and K.T. Ying Professor of Ophthalmology, former Chair of the Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S Welcome: Lee Goldman, M.D., MPH. Harold and Margaret Hatch Professor, Executive Vice President and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine, and Chief Executive Officer of Columbia University Irving Medical Center Remarks: Yi Sun, M.D., Ph.D. Dean of the Institute of Translational Medicine & Vice Dean of the School of Medicine, Zhejiang University 9:20 Group Photo Moderator: Yi Sun, M.D., Ph.D. Moderator: June Wu, M.D. Assistant Professor of Surgery (Plastic Surgery). Co-Director, Vascular Anomalies Group, Department of Surgery; Co-Director, Basic and Translational Vascular Anomalies Research Program, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S 9:30 Shaohua Hu, M.D., Ph.D. Associate Director of the Department of Psychiatry, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine “Gut microbiota changes following quetiapine treatment in patients with bipolar depression” 9:50 Barbara H. Stanley, Ph.D. Professor of Medical Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S; Research Scientist, New York State Psychiatric Institute “Zero Suicide Model” 10:10 Milton Wainberg, M.D. Professor of Clinical Psychiatry, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S “Decreasing the Gap between Research and Global Mental Health Treatment” 10:30 Break 10:50 Manli Huang, M.D., Ph.D. Deputy Director, Mental Health Center of the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine; Deputy Director of the Key Laboratory of Mental Disorders Management, Zhejiang Province “Neuroimaging study of the first episode of schizophrenia” 11:10 Susan L. Rosenthal, Ph.D., ABPP. Professor of Medical Psychology (in Pediatrics and Psychiatry), Director of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health; Vice Chair of Faculty Development, Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S “Adolescent suicide” 11:30 Steve Kernie, M.D. Professor of Pediatrics (in Neurology), Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S; Chief of Critical Care Medicine at Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital/New York Presbyterian, Columbia University Irving Medical Center “What is the real diagnosis in children with critical illness? How genetic sequencing is changing the pediatric ICU” 11:50 Ye Feng, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Institute of Translational Medicine, Zhejiang University School of Medicine “Globally disseminated bacterial infection necessitates metadata-independent genomic surveillance” 12:20 LUNCH The Faculty Club, 630 West 168th Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10032 Introduction: Stanley Chang, M.D. Remarks: Roger Wu, M.D. Chair-Elect, Board of Overseers, Wu Family China Center for Health Initiatives “Lazy, Careless, and Naughty; Practicing Child Psychiatry in San Francisco's Chinatown” AFTERNOON, Monday, September 24, 2018 Moderator: Min Zhou, Ph.D. Professor, Researcher, Doctoral Adviser of the Institute of Translational Medicine at Zhejiang University School of Medicine Moderator: Michael Yin, M.D. Associate Professor, Department of Medicine (Infectious Disease), Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons 2:00 Therese Hesketh, M.D., Ph.D. Professor of Global Health, University College London; Professor of the Centre for Global Health, Zhejiang University School of Medicine “Addressing the global scourge of antimicrobial resistance- lessons from Zhejiang Province” 2:20 Elaine Wan, M.D. The Esther Aboodi Assistant Professor of Medicine (Cardiology), Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons “Atrial fibrillation, an increasing global and public health crises: a need for basic understanding" 2:40 Break 3:00 Meixiang Xiang, M.D., Ph.D. Vice President, Deputy Director of Cardiology Department, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine “HO-1 in Macrophages Drives Septic Cardiac Dysfunction via Suppressing Lysosomal Degradation of iNOS” 3:20 David Goldstein, Ph.D. The John E. Borne Professor of Medical and Surgical Research (Genetics and Development); Director, Institute for Genomic Medicine at Columbia University; Professor of Medical Sciences (Medicine), Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S “Building a precision medicine ecosystem at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center” Tuesday, September 25, 2018 The Faculty Club, 630 West 168th Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10032 MORNING, September 25, 2018 9:00 Welcome: Stanley Chang, M.D. 9:10 Group Photo Moderator: Junwei Su, M.D. Faculty, Department of Infectious Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine; former Wu Family China Center research fellow from 2017-2018 Moderator: Elaine Wan, M.D. The Esther Aboodi Assistant Professor of Medicine (Cardiology), Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons 9:30 Min Zhou, Ph.D. Professor, researcher, Institute of Translational Medicine, Zhejiang University School of Medicine. Vice Director of Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Intervention, Ministry of Education, China “Improving Drug Penetration in Tumors by Smart Nanoparticle-Based Drug Delivery System” 9:50 Kefeng Ding, M.D., Ph.D. Vice President, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine; Vice Director, Cancer Institute, Zhejiang University; Director, Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Medical Sciences, Zhejiang Province; Principal, National Key Research & Discovery Program of China “The screen of colon rectal cancer in China: Current status and future perspectives” 10:10 Anyong Xie, Ph.D. Professor, Institute of Translational Medicine & Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine “Harnessing accurate non-homologous end joining for precise deletion in CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing” 10:30 Break 10:50 Timothy Wang, M.D. The Dorothy L. and Daniel H. Silberberg Professor of Medicine, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons; Chief, Division of Digestive and Liver Disease, New York-Presbyterian Hospital “Targeting nerves in pancreatic adenocarcinoma” 11:10 Shan Zha, M.D., Ph.D. Associate Professor, Pediatrics, Pathology and Cell Biology, Institute for Cancer Genetics and Herbert Irving Cancer Center, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S “Understanding the difference between inhibition and deletion in cancer therapy” 11:30 Zhiguo Zhang, Ph.D. Professor of Epigenomics and Molecular Biology, Departments of Pediatrics, Genetics and Development, and Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S “Oncohistone mutations reprogram cancer epigenome” 12:00 LUNCH The Faculty Club, 630 West 168th Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10032 Introduction: Anke Nolting, Ph.D. Associate Dean and Executive Director of Alumni Relations and Development, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons; Inaugural Administrative Director, Wu Family China Center for Health Initiatives at Columbia University Irving Medical Center Remarks: Peter Liou, M.D. Currently a general surgical resident in the Department of Surgery at Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S “Medicine and Music: Dr. Clyde Wu’s two loves” AFTERNOON, September 25, 2018 Moderators: Dr. Junwei Su, M.D. & Michael Yin, M.D. 2:00 Biao Zhu, M.D., Ph.D. Chief Physician, Deputy Director, Department of Infectious Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine “From treatment to prevention -- A brief view of HIV infection in China” 2:20 Neil Schluger, M.D. Professor of Medicine, Environmental Health Science and Epidemiology, Columbia University Vagelos College of P&S; Chief, Pulmonary Division, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, New York Presbyterian Hospital “Opportunities For and Challenges to Global Tuberculosis Control: Can We Make Progress” 2:40 Break 3:00 Anne Moscona, M.D. Sherrie L. Morrison Professor of Immunology (in Microbiology and Immunology); Professor of Pediatrics and of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons; Director, Center for Host-Pathogen Interaction, Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital “Early steps in infection by lethal viruses as targets for antiviral strategies” 3:20 Anne-Catrin Uhlemann, M.D., Ph.D. Associate Professor of Medicine (Infectious Disease), Department of Medicine, at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons “The interaction of the multi-drug resistant pathogen landscape and the microbiome in liver transplant patients” 3:40 David Ho, M.D. The Founding Scientific Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center and the Irene Diamond Professor at The Rockefeller University “China AIDS Initiative of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center” EVENING, Tuesday, September 25, 2018 5:00 to 6:00 Reception, VEC Lobby Roy and Diana Vagelos Education Center, 104 Haven Avenue, Lobby, New York, NY 10032 6:00 to 8:00 Award Presentation, VEC 401 Roy and Diana Vagelos Education Center, 104 Haven Avenue, Room 401, New York, NY 10032 Co-Organizers Wu Family China Center for Health Initiatives, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons Institute of Translational Medicine, Zhejiang University School of Medicine Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close