Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Global Seminar Series II: Energy and Climate Change Policies in China | Session 2: Energy and Climate Change Policies in China Events Past Event Global Seminar Series II: Energy and Climate Change Policies in China | Session 2: Energy and Climate Change Policies in China Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo April 28, 2021 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM - Time: 9:00 - 10:30 PM (Beijing) | 9:00 - 10:30 AM (New York) | 3:00 - 4:30 PM (Paris) | 6:30 - 8:00 PM (Mumbai) Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, in partnership with Columbia SIPA Center on Global Energy Policy and Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai, is pleased to invite you to a seminar series that highlights and discusses common climate change challenges across East Asia as well as differences between countries. China is now the second-largest economy in the world and, by far, the largest emitter of greenhouse gas emissions. It reflects the country’s rapid economic expansion since 1980, the high energy-intensity of its economic output, as well as the dominance of coal in China’s energy mix. However, China’s energy transition has been taking shape in the recent past and is now accelerating. Lower-carbon fuels and technologies have been growing faster than total energy consumption. Low-carbon energy investment (wind, solar, nuclear, batteries) is booming. The government has set a long-term objective of carbon neutrality by 2060 and medium-term objectives for 2030. This session will review China’s recent history, its achievements, challenges and goals for the future, in a global context. Points to be covered: Chinese energy and CO2 emissions, 1960-2060: Major trends and key questions China in the global climate change negotiation The politics of China's energy policy: who wants what? Study on China energy interconnection for achieving China's 2060 carbon neutral pathway Pierre Noël is a Global Research Scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy. His research interests sit at the intersections between international energy markets and public policy choices. He has worked on energy security policy in Europe, with special reference to Russiadependent central and eastern European countries. He specialized in changing natural gas market structures and how they impacted policy choices. Since 2013, Noel has worked extensively on energy and environmental policy strategies in emerging Asia. He has focused on the economic and political drivers of the competition between coal, LNG and renewables, in a context of growing concerns about the local and global environment. Prior to joining CGEP, Noël was a Senior Fellow in Economic and Energy Security at the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS), based successively in Singapore and London; before that, he was a Senior Research Associate with the Energy Policy Research Group (EPRG) at the Judge Business School, University of Cambridge (UK). David Sandalow is the Inaugural Fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy and co-Director of the Energy and Environment Concentration at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. He founded and directs the Center’s U.S.-China Program and is author of the Guide to Chinese Climate Policy. During Fall 2019, he was a Distinguished Visiting Professor in the Schwarzman Scholars Program at Tsinghua University. Mr. Sandalow has served in senior positions at the White House, State Department and U.S. Department of Energy. He came to Columbia from the U.S. Department of Energy, where he served as Under Secretary of Energy (acting) and Assistant Secretary for Policy & International Affairs. Prior to serving at DOE, Mr. Sandalow was a Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He has served as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Environment & Science and a Senior Director on the National Security Council staff. Erica Downs is a Senior Research Scholar at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University SIPA, focusing on Chinese energy markets and geopolitics. Downs has a distinguished career in Eurasian energy policy with a focus on China. She has over 15 years of experience working in the public and non-profit sectors. She previously worked as a senior research scientist in the China Studies program of the CNA Corporation, a senior analyst in the Asia practice at Eurasia Group, a fellow in the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution, an energy analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency, and a lecturer at the Foreign Affairs College in Beijing, China. Downs has managed more than 50 publications in the areas of Chinese energy production and development and its geopolitical positioning. Changyi Liu has worked as a senior researcher at Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization (GEIDCO)since 2017, focusing on economics, energy, climate change and sustainable development studies and IAM modeling. Prior to joining GEIDCO, Liu was a researcher at National Climate Center (NCC), China Meteorological Administration (CMA), responsible for economic analysis of climate disaster impact and modeling from 2013 to 2017. During 2014 and 2015, he worked as a visiting scholar at Harvard University China Project to study wind resource assessment. Moderator Weiping Wu is Professor of Urban Planning at Columbia GSAPP and Director of the M.S. Urban Planning program. She also is on the faculty of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute and Columbia Population Research Center. Prof. Wu is the immediate past President of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning and a board member of the Planning Accreditation Board. Trained in architecture and urban planning, Prof. Wu has focused her research and teaching on understanding urban dynamics in developing countries in general and China in particular. She is an internationally acclaimed urban and planning scholar working on global urbanization with a specific expertise in issues of migration, housing, and infrastructure of Chinese cities. Her research has been supported by the National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Education, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, and World Bank. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close