Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Homepage Toggle Global Cornell Menu About Global Operations Resources Travel Global Hubs Global at Cornell Global Operations Main Menu Toggle Search Form Register Travel Contact Home Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Hiring and Staffing Abroad Money and Banking Western Union Retail Payments Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics Icertis Contract Administrators International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics Icertis Contract Administrators International Delegations and Protocol Breadcrumb Home Global Operations Collaborations and Agreements International Contracting Basics International Contracting Basics On this page, you'll find essential information and resources for planning international agreements. Partner with the Right Office Depending on the contract scope, one of the following offices will be responsible: Office of Sponsored Programs, Procurement Services, Center for Technology Licensing, Alumni Affairs and Development, or Global Operations. Cornell is committed to complying with federal and state reporting requirements for foreign gifts and contracts—ensure your contract is channeled through the appropriate office. If you’re not sure who to contact about your contemplated activity, Global Operations can help. Plan ahead! Allow weeks to months for the contracting process, depending on the complexity of your agreement. International Agreements in Global Operations’ Scope Global Operations manages Cornell's contracting procedures for several types of international agreements, as described below. These types of agreements must be initiated by your unit's contract administrator and only executed by the authorized signatory, which is specific to contract type. Global Operations partners with the Office of General Counsel to make available a variety of contract templates to help document an intended relationship. Agreements under Global Operations’ purview: International Institutional Collaborations Relationships governed by memoranda of agreement (MOA), project agreements, letters of intent, letter agreements, memoranda of understanding (MOU), and similar agreements regardless of title Grants from internal funding sources to international collaborators or community stakeholders International Revenue-Generating Activities Relationships governed by master services agreements (MSA), statements of work (SoW), educational services agreements, and similar agreements regardless of title Activities funded by a foreign entity or when Cornell conducts work out of the U.S. Learn more about Cornell's policy on reporting foreign gifts and contracts Revenue-generating activities that fall outside sponsored research, including executive education, training, etc. Please consult the Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) if you're not sure if your project would be considered sponsored. Non-degree program tuition or service revenue Other review-generating activities International Independent Contractors Relationships with individuals or non-corporate entities that reside or perform services outside of the United States and provide personal services to Cornell, while retaining control over the means and methods of accomplishing the result. Who Can Sign? According to Cornell Transaction Policy 4.2, certain individuals have been granted transaction authority for the university’s international agreements, including university counsel, the provost, and the vice provost for international affairs. Delegation plans extend this authority to deans of colleges and schools and authorized approvers for university-level units. Only these designated signatories may sign international agreements for your unit, college, or school. Elsewhere at Cornell Some Cornell activities happen in the international arena, but are outside Global Operations' scope: Sponsored research projects, including sub-awards. Email the Office Sponsored Programs for help navigating the paperwork to accept funds at Cornell. Purchasing (buying services or products from a company registered outside the U.S.) Tuition for traditional degree programs Investment activity Technology licensing Gifts and/or sponsorships processed through Alumni Affairs and Development Negotiating a Contract? Consult our overview of international contracting tips and best practices (NetID required). Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance