Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Presentation: Nancy K. Miller's 'My Brilliant Friends: Our Lives in Feminism' Events Past Event Presentation: Nancy K. Miller's 'My Brilliant Friends: Our Lives in Feminism' Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo My Brilliant Friends October 22, 2019 7:00 PM - 10:00 PM 4 rue de Chevreuse, 75006, Paris, France Friendships between women are incredibly important: they provide a sense of home and community for those women are disenfranchised; they allow women to feel supported in achieving their goals; and they are an emotional refuge, amongst many other things. In writer, lecturer, and editor Nancy K. Miller's new memoir My Brilliant Friends: Our Lives in Feminism, published by Columbia University Press, Miller explores her close friendships with her fellow women writers during the wave of 70s feminism. At Columbia Global Centers | Paris, Miller will be in conversation with British writer and psychoanalyst Anouchka Grose, artist and writer Susan Morris, and Columbia Global Centers | Paris Senior Program Manager Dr. Loren Wolfe. About My Brilliant Friends: Our Lives in Feminism My Brilliant Friends is a group biography of three women’s friendships forged in second-wave feminism. Poignant and politically charged, the book is a captivating personal account of the complexities of women’s bonds. Nancy K. Miller describes her friendships with three well-known scholars and literary critics: Carolyn Heilbrun, Diane Middlebrook, and Naomi Schor. Their relationships were simultaneously intimate and professional, emotional and intellectual, animated by the ferment of the women’s movement. Friendships like these sustained the generation of women whose entrance into male-dominated professions is still reshaping American society. The stories of their intertwined lives and books embody feminism’s belief in the political importance of personal experience. Reflecting on aging and loss, ambition and rivalry, competition and collaboration, Miller shows why and how friendship’s ties matter in the worlds of work and love. Inspired in part by the portraits of the intensely enmeshed lives in Elena Ferrante’s Neapolitan novels, My Brilliant Friends provides a passionate and timely vision of friendship between women. Nancy K Miller About Nancy Miller Nancy K. Miller is the author or editor of more than a dozen books, most recently, Breathless: An American Girl in Paris (2013), a memoir of her years living an expatriate dream in 1960s Paris. In 2019 she will publish My Brilliant Friends: Our Lives in Feminism, the story of three friendships with women that changed her life, beginning in the 1970s: Carolyn Heilbrun, Diane Middlebrook, and Naomi Schor. Miller lectures widely, both nationally and internationally, and her work is anthologized in popular volumes on feminism and life writing. In 1983 she co-founded the Gender and Culture Series at Columbia University Press with the late Carolyn Heilbrun, and since 2004 coedits the series with Victoria Rosner. Anouchka Grose About Anouchka Grose Anouchka Grose (born 1970 in Sydney, Australia) is a British-Australian Lacanian psychoanalyst and writer. She is a member of The Centre for Freudian Analysis and Research, where she lectures. Her journalism has been published by The Guardian, and The Independent. She also discusses psychoanalysis and current affairs on the radio, appearing on Woman's Hour and Beyond Belief, as well as presenting the first in the series of Radio 4's Lent Talks in 2017. Before training as a psychoanalyst, she studied Fine Art at Goldsmiths' College and was a guitarist and backing vocalist with Terry, Blair & Anouchka (with Terry Hall of The Specials). She has worked with the French-British artist Alice Anderson, writing about her work, interviewing her, and composing and performing music for her film, The Night I Became a Doll. She also plays lap steel guitar with Martin Creed's band. Susan Morris About Susan Morris Susan Morris is an artist, who also writes. Her artwork explores forms of automatic drawing or writing in various media including chalk on paper, inkjet printing and Jacquard tapestry. Her PhD, ‘On the Blank: Photography, Writing, Drawing’ (2007), explored the link between memory blanks and the indexical mark: forgetting leaves its trace. Related to this research, she recently completed a twelve-part artist book, based on her own diary, which might be considered an involuntary or 'anti' novel. Columbia University Press Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close