Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement Education Abroad Hours Monday – Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Phone 918-631-3229 Location Hardesty Hall, 3rd Floor Programs Make an appointment My CGE EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs In an increasingly digitally connected world, study abroad has become a key piece of the American college experience. College graduates who possess the personal, academic, and professional skills that are gained through international experience are at the forefront of their fields, especially in competitive job markets. Study abroad alumni re-enter their home country with broadened horizons, increased comfort in ambiguous and complex situations, and renewed confidence, maturity, and curiosity. Many students also take the opportunity of living abroad to gain language proficiency that cannot be earned inside a classroom. The Center for Global Engagement strives to make international experiences possible for all students by working with them to find options that fit their academic, personal, and professional goals as well as satisfying major, budget, and timeframe requirements. Beyond finding the classes and locations that are right for students, the CGE is proud to offer international internship, research, service-learning, and volunteering experiences as well. The University of Tulsa is committed to a price model that makes study abroad affordable. Students who study abroad for a semester continue to pay their TU tuition, with all federal and university financial aid and scholarships transferable (there may be additional fees for appeal programs). See scholarship & finances and the financial policy for details. Start Exploring Semester Programs Start Exploring Summer Program Benefits of Study Abroad Benefits of Study Abroad Why spend time studying in another country when you worked so hard to get to TU in the first place? Here are 5 compelling reasons to go global: 97% of study abroad returnees found employment within 12 months of graduation, compared with 49% of those who did not study abroad.* Study abroad returnees have salaries 25% greater than their counterparts who did not study abroad, in similar jobs.* Study abroad lets you study a variety of subjects in more depth and from different cultural perspectives, preparing you to succeed academically and professionally in a global environment. Students who study abroad develop professional skills that make them especially marketable to employers, including problem solving, flexibility, adaptability and leadership. Nationwide, students who have studied abroad consistently count their international experience as one of the best parts of their college careers. They report that they developed a greater sense of independence and confidence in their capabilities, as well as a renewed sense of intellectual energy and focus. Talk to us today to start planning your adventure. *Statistics from https://studyabroad.ucmerced.edu/study-abroad-statistics/statistics-study-abroad Policies & Procedures The University of Tulsa’s policies and procedures related to study abroad cover information including eligibility requirements for going abroad, getting credit for your courses and submitting appeals. Please click on the links below to read the policies. If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact the CGE. Academic Policies Exceptions to the TU Student Travel Policy Financial Policies Health Clearance Policy Non-Credit Bearing Experiences & Independent International Academic Travel Unaffiliated Programs 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT