Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Rio Who We Are Our Advisory Board Our Advisory Board ANA CABRAL-GARDNER Ana is a Managing Partner and co-founder of A10 Investimentos, a leading Brazilian private equity boutique focused on sustainable investments and M&A. A10 Investimentos Fund is the controlling shareholder of Sigma Lithium, one of the largest hard rock lithium companies in the Americas. Ana has over 25 years of experience as a senior banker at global investment banks in New York, London and Sao Paulo and over 15 years of experience as an investor. Prior to founding A10, Ana was Head of Latin American Capital Markets at Goldman Sachs in New York. She was one of the four senior bankers Goldman assigned to Brazil to build its local banking and markets operations in 2007. ARMINIO FRAGA Founder of Gávea Investimentos and the Institute for Health Policy Studies (IEPS). Member of the Group of Thirty and the Council on Foreign Relations. President of the Central Bank of Brazil (1999-2002), Chairman of B3, Managing Direction of Soros Fund Management. BA from PUC-Rio and PhD from Princeton University, where he served as a Trustee. Taught at PUC-Rio, EPGE-FGV, SIPA-Columbia and the Wharton School. BETO SICUPIRA His fellow shareholders at AB Inbev include longtime Brazilian business partners Jorge Paulo Lemann and Marcel Herrmann Telles, both billionaires. In 2016 AB InBev completed its nearly $100 billion acquisition of SABMiller, acquiring brands including Pilsner Urquell and Foster's Lager. Sicupira and his partners also own stakes in listed Restaurant Brands International, parent of Burger King and Canadian coffee chain Tim Hortons. In 2013, the trio's private equity firm 3G Capital and Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway bought H.J. Heinz & Company. Heinz later merged with Kraft. CLAUDIA COSTIN Claudia Costin is the founder and director of the Center for Excellence and Innovation in Education Policies (CEIPE), a think and do tank within Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV), a leading private University in Brazil, where she is a professor. Claudia was until 2018 a visiting Professor at the Harvard School of Education. Prior to founding this CEIPE she was a Senior Director for Global Education at the World Bank. Before joining the World Bank, Costin served as Secretary of Education of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Her former positions include Secretary of State of Culture at São Paulo and Federal Minister for Public Administration and State Reform. GERMANA LYRA BAHR Former Strategic Planning and Special Projects Coordinator at the National Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics (INTO) in Rio de Janeiro. Pediatrician, graduated from the State University of Rio de Janeiro (UERJ) with residency at the Pedro Ernesto University Hospital (HUPE), holding an Executive MBA from COPPEAD / UFRJ (Rio de Janeiro) and a Masters in Administration from Audencia Business School / Nantes (France). Specialist in the Management of Change. GUSTAVO FRANCO Gustavo started his career in the public service in May 1993, as Deputy Secretary of Economic Policy when Fernando Henrique Cardoso was made Minister of Finance. He was Governor of Banco Central do Brasil (1997/99) and served as Deputy Governor for International Affairs between (1993/97). He was the youngest of all governors of the Brazilian Central Bank in the democratic period and chaired the institution in the calendar year of 1998, when inflation, as measured by the IPCA, was the lowest in the entire existence of the institution (1,6% for the year). JORGE PAULO LEMMAN Jorge Paulo Lemman earned a bachelor's degree in Economics from Harvard University in 1961. Mr. Lemann founded and was Senior Partner of Banco Garantia from 1971 to 1998. From then until 2005, he was a director of the Gillette Company in Boston and of Lojas Americanas and AmBev in Brazil. He was also Chairman of the Latin American Advisory Committee of the New York Stock Exchange and a member of the DaimlerChrysler International Advisory Board. He is controlling shareholder of Anheuser-Busch InBev, Restaurant Brands International (owner of Burger King, Popeyes and Tim Hortons) and Director Kraft-Heinz Company and of 3G Capital. Mr. Lemann is a co-founder of Fundação Estudar and Fundação Lemann, nonprofit organizations that provide scholarships and new educational techniques for Brazilians. LILIA SALES Post-doctorate from Columbia University (New York), doctor of law from the Federal University of Pernambuco, master and law degree from the Federal University of Ceará. He has training in conflict mediation at Harvard University, with the Program on Negotiation (USA). She is currently a professor at the University of Fortaleza of the Postgraduate Program (Master and Doctorate) in Constitutional Law, Vice-Dean of Graduate Studies at the University of Fortaleza, Ceará Mediation and Arbitration Institute (Mediação Brasil), Member / Consular of the US Global Center Council and member of the Superior Council of the Cearense Foundation for Support for Scientific and Technological Development (FUNCAP). MARCELO BARBOSA He holds an LLB from the University of Rio de Janeiro State (UERJ) and an LL.M from Columbia University (New York). He has taught Corporate Law at UERJ and Fundação Getulio Vargas in Rio de Janeiro. He was also the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Estudar and a member of the Columbia Global Centers Latin America Advisory Board and of the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee (CAF). He has written several articles on corporate law and securities markets and has participated as a lecturer at conferences in Brazil and abroad. MARIA SILVA BASTOS Maria Silvia Bastos Marques was chair of the Brazilian Advisory Board of Goldman Sachs Brazil until last December, after acting as president and chief executive officer of the bank for a year. Prior to joining Goldman Sachs, Maria Silvia held positions both in public and private sectors. Most recently, she was chief executive officer of the Brazilian National Development Bank (BNDES) and chief executive officer of the Municipal Olympic Company and Special Advisor to the Mayor for the Rio de Janeiro 2016 Olympic Games from 2011 to 2016. RICARDO GANDOUR Senior media executive, journalist and engineer. Communication strategy consultant at Todos pela Educação, IEPS - Institute for Health Policy Studies, and GIFE - Group of Institutes, Foundations and Companies. Professor of Journalism at ESPM. Member of the board of NGO Instituto Palavra Aberta and Columbia Global Center Brazil. Master in Science of Communication - School of Communications and Arts of São Paulo University (ECA-USP) and Visiting Scholar at Columbia Journalism School, Columbia University. Gandour was the Journalism Director at CBN Radio Network and member of the editorial board of Grupo Globo from 2016 to 2020. Before, he was Content Director of Grupo Estado (2006-2015), Executive director of “Diário de S.Paulo” (2002-2006); Publications Director at Editora Globo (2000-2002), Reporter, editor and founding director of Publifolha Editora, Grupo Folha (1990-2000). THOMAS FELSBERG Thomas Felsberg is the Founding Partner of Felsberg Advogados and a global reference in the area of insolvency and debt restructuring. Recognized by publications such as Latin Lawyer, Chambers and Partners, The Legal 500, and Leaders League as one of Brazil’s leading insolvency lawyers, Thomas was a member of the committees responsible for the drafting of the current Business Restructuring and Insolvency Law in Brazil. He is the first Latin American lawyer to receive the Global Restructuring Review’s Lifetime Achievement Award, for his work in restructuring and insolvency with respect to Brazilian and foreign companies, in June 2019. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close