Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Media and Democracy in Brazil: Under Challenge Rio de Janeiro Media and Democracy in Brazil: Under Challenge On April 18th, Columbia Journalism School and Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro held a panel discussion on the media in Brazil and its current challenges. By Lucianete Saramello Hoffman April 26, 2016 The event aimed to foster a debate on such situation in Brazil taking into account the increasing polarization of public opinion, the use of defamation and privacy laws and violence to silence journalists - especially at a time of political and economic turmoil in the country’s young democracy. The discussion evolved around the relations between the media, the public and government, the state of free speech in Brazil and elsewhere in Latin America, the way journalists are coping with the restrictions, the role of technology and social media, and the strategies for preserving and solidifying a credible press. Guest speakers included Ricardo Gandour, Director of Grupo Estado, São Paulo, and visiting scholar at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, Carlos Lauria, Program Director and Senior Program Coordinator, The Americas, the Committee to Protect Journalists, Thomas Trebat, Director, Columbia University Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro. The dialogue was mediated by Ernest Sotomayor, Dean of Student Affairs & Director, Latin American Initiatives at the Columbia Journalism School. DEFAMATION LAW AND CENSORSHIP Besides the constant physical threats, journalists also face legislative and judicial actions, including defamation and privacy laws in Brazil. “Brazil is one of the many places where defamation laws are used to silence journalists. And this has become a real problem in Brazil, where powerful business men and celebrities can file lawsuits proving that their privacy had been invaded, and forcing important reporting to be taken down,” said Carlos Lauria. He cited the case of a journalist from a small radio station in Paraiba, who was sentenced to 8 months in jail and later sentenced for community service for defaming a business man. As for Ricardo Gandour, his newspaper was forbidden to publish reports on the son of senator, Jose Sarney, from Maranhao, based on those privacy issues. “The newspaper got hold of some records that included some private conversation of Sarney’s granddaughter talking about jobs to someone in the senate. We just used parts of it, and they were of public interest, not private.” Gandour claimed this is a “complicate debate”, as judges feel they improve society life by controlling the Press. “They believe that something will be better for the society if it’s not been published.” He also emphasized that “one can claim their rights on courts after publication, but never try to forbid before it’s published, as this is a form of censorship.” "In Brazil, media companies are family owned. These includes newspapers, radio, TV, that make budget cuts, leaving some topics of society without coverage. This is a phenomenon not only happening in Brazil.” Ricardo Gandour VIOLENCE “According to our research,” said Lauria, “ violence was one of the most important factor endangering the work of journalist and creating a difficult atmosphere.” He added that globally, since 1992, about 1188 journalists were killed around the world, and last year, Syria was leading the statistics about journalists killed in modern times. But in South America, Brazil is one of the top three countries where journalists have been killed for their work in the past five years, ranking as high as Mexico and Colombia is in first place. Many independent journalists have been killed in the past five years in Brazil, many running their own blogs, using social media, and doing criticism of crime or political figures, denouncing corruption, are endangering their lives and facing constant threats as they have no institutional support. Even though Lauria finds positive that bloggers found a voice and ways to communicate directly to a wide online audience in Brazil, he acknowledges their vulnerability. “The bloggers are working independently, without the protection of the big organizations.” To illustrate that reality, Lauria cited the case of Ivan Pereira Costa, a blogger from Rondonia recently shot five times as he was reporting on issues of lading disputes. Fortunately he survived,” said the speaker. But not all is negative about the media landscape in Brazil. In terms of impunity, “Brazil is different,” said Lauria, “There is progress that the Brazilian judiciary has made, particularly regarding convictions. In the past two years alone, there has been two convictions. This is uncommon and unusual comparing to other countries like Syria, Russia Somalia, Philippines, Mexico, where the impunity rate is over 90%.” Lauria finds this to be an encouraging sign in combating corruption, not only restricted to journalist cases, but also for powerful business men who have been prosecuted for crime of corruption. “In Mexico,” he said “impunity is overwhelming.” One can talk to Mexican journalists about the skepticism they feel regarding the safety of executing their job: Journalists that come from states where their colleagues are under threat don't trust the authorities at the federal level. This creates a real problem. Lauria talked about the case of a photographer who was killed, working in the state of Vera Cruz, one of the deadliest places in Mexico, where ten journalists have died and three have disappeared. “In Brazil this doesn’t happen,” explained Lauria. The judicial system is slow, sometimes is too slow, but it does offer convictions, “We have emblematic cases where, Lopez, a journalist from O Globo reporting undercover in a favela in Rio de Janeiro, was brutally murdered”, explained Lauria. “This is a very important development, as I said before it does happen anywhere in the world where journalists has been killed often. In Brazil there is journalist protection covering human rights offenders.” “Brazil is one of the many places where defamation laws are used to silence journalists. Powerful business men and celebrities can file lawsuits proving that their privacy had been invaded, and forcing important reporting to be taken down.” Carlos Lauria MEDIA’S ROLE IN THE POLARIZATION Another important factor in this dialogue is polarization, and Ricardo Gandour touched on issues of freedom of expression and the challenges that the Brazilian media encounters in order to be objective within this context of political turmoil that the country is going through while facing an increased level of polarization. “Specially in Brazil, polarization refers to the old media against the new media, which is a false dilemma”, said Gandour. According to Gandour, Brazil has a solid situation of freedom of expression which is dated back to the new Constitution from 1988, but with noticeable and important challenges that, he believes, must be addressed. He also explained in Brazil there is a layer, a battle that labels mainstream media as more conservative and the new media as more progressist. “This is a very particular situation, but it is a false antagonism”, he said. He argues that Brazilian society is having an increasing level of polarization, specially related to the media, and in Gandour’s opinion it started in the second half of the first term of former President Luis Inacio da Silva. “There was no doubt that Lula put the public opinion against the media. I don’t have any doubt that on his second term, Lula played that role, he was a good political figure and good speaker.” Gandour also made a point about justice regarding media privacy and freedom of expression. “Some judges feel they can improve society by controlling the press. They believe that something it will be better for the society if it’s not been published. It’s a complicated debate.” But, “we underline that one can claim their rights on courts after the publication, never try to forbid before it’s published, as this is a form of censorship.” The change in the media business model is also seen as an issue: “The economy is very bad right now, market is pretty much impacted by huge fragmentation of the media environment. In this stage, Brazilian media is compared to the rest of the world, and we know all the challenges involved in this transformation of the media environment, we see consolidation of companies, we see the digital impact. In Brazil, media companies are family owned and it’s difficult to try to solve those companies’ issues. These includes newspapers, radio, TV, who makes budget cuts, leaving some topics of society without coverage, which is a phenomenon, which is not only happening in Brazil. Image Carousel with 2 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: From left to right: Thomas Trebat, Carlos Lauria and Ricardo Gandour Slide 2: From left to right: Thomas Trebat, Carlos Lauria and Ricardo Gandour From left to right: Thomas Trebat, Carlos Lauria and Ricardo Gandour From left to right: Thomas Trebat, Carlos Lauria and Ricardo Gandour Previous Next Tags Rio Public Rio: Government and Society Columbia Journalism School CJS Carlos Lauria Ricardo Gandour Thomas Trebat Ernest Sotomayor Journalism Media Democracy Freedom of Speech Freedom of Expression News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close