Skip to main content Search: Submit search Search filters Search This site Search Cornell Global Cornell Main Menu Toggle Search Form News Events Giving Register Travel Home About Vice Provost for International Affairs OVPIA Leadership International Council Global Ambassadors Strategic Direction Inclusion, Engagement, and Advocacy Global Women of Color Mentorship Initiative Story Circles: Intercultural Understanding Workshop War in Ukraine: Campus Support and Resources Global Antiracism Race and Racism Across Borders Silence is Racism COVID-19 Response Study Away Connections in the Time of Coronavirus Contact Us Global Operations Project Support Consulting Services Foreign Legal Presence and Entities Hiring for International Work Money and Banking Shipping Goods Translation and Interpretation Collaborations and Agreements Establishing Institutional Partnerships Exploring Academic Collaborations International Contracting Basics International Delegations and Protocol International Engagement Campus Resources International Travel Support Sabbatical Leaves Abroad Webinars and Training Resources Funding Opportunities Immigration Advice and Resources International Off-Campus Activity Toolkit Mapping Our Global Community Statements Teaching International Students Travel Emergencies Abroad Travel Policies Travel Petitions Travel to Cuba Travel Planning 24/7 Travel Assistance Travel Insurance Visas, Passports, and Vaccination Records Predeparture Orientation Traveling with Technology Pandemic Travel Advice Health Self-Assessment for International Travel Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Global at Cornell Global Hubs Australia China Ecuador Ghana India Mexico Singapore South Korea Thailand United Kingdom Zambia Breadcrumb Home Global Hubs United Kingdom United Kingdom Partner University Imperial College London Established in 1907, with roots dating back to 1845, Imperial College London is a public research university in London with an academic focus on science, technology, medicine, and business. The architecturally diverse main campus in South Kensington is surrounded by London's cultural attractions, including Kensington Palace and the Royal Albert Hall. A second campus in White City focuses on innovation and entrepreneurship. Silwood Park is a postgraduate campus, and there are several additional medical research and teaching campuses. International students at Imperial Enrollment: 19,500 Undergraduate students: 10,500 Graduate students: 9,000 About Imperial Partner University King's College London (in process) King's College London is a public research institute founded in 1829 as one of the original colleges of the University of London. King's College has nine faculties covering the arts, humanities, business, law, natural and mathematical sciences, health sciences, and social sciences, including international affairs. There are five campuses: the historic Strand Campus in central London, Guy's Campus, St Thomas' Campus, Waterloo Campus, and Denmark Hill Campus. International students at King's Enrollment: 33,100 Undergraduate students: 19,370 Graduate students: 13,730 About King's Partner University University College London (in process) Established in 1826 as London University, today's University College London (UCL) is a multidisciplinary public research institute. It is the second-largest university in the UK by enrollment. UCL was the first university in England to welcome students of any religion or social background and the first to admit women. Located in central London's Bloomsbury district, the university is part of the Knowledge Quarter, a consortium of over 90 academic, cultural, research, scientific, and media organizations. An additional campus, UCL East, is being built in Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park. International Students at UCL Enrollment: 41,100 Undergraduate students: 19,175 Graduate students: 21,385 About UCL About the Location London, England London on the River Thames is the capital and largest city of England and the United Kingdom. The historic City of London, known as the Square Mile, is London's ancient core and current financial center. The neighboring City of Westminster houses much of the national government. Thirty-one boroughs north and south of the river make up modern London. London's diverse population is estimated at nine million, with more than 300 languages spoken in the region. London is home to four World Heritage sites, including the Tower of London and Westminster Abby. Other landmarks include Buckingham Palace, Piccadilly Circus, and Elizabeth Tower (Big Ben), in addition to many museums, galleries, and sporting events, making London a leading tourist destination. Partner University University of Edinburgh (in process) The University of Edinburgh is a public research university in Edinburgh, Scotland's capital. Founded in 1583, the university is the sixth-oldest university in the English-speaking world. It has five main campuses, with the Central Campus housing many buildings of historical and architectural significance in Old Town. King's Buildings, BioQuarter, Western General, and Easter Bush are the university’s other campuses. The University of Edinburgh has three colleges—the College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences; College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine; and College of Science and Engineering—and 21 schools. International students at the University of Edinburgh Enrollment: 44,500 Undergraduate students: 26,800 Graduate students: 17,700 About University of Edinburgh About the Location Edinburgh, Scotland Scotland's capital since the 15th century, Edinburgh is one of Europe's great cultural hubs, with a population of half a million and a wide range of museums, art galleries, and theaters. Edinburgh hosts 12 festivals each year, including the world's largest arts festival. Although part of the UK, Scotland has its own Parliament in Edinburgh. There are three universities in the city. Studying in Edinburgh gives students an opportunity to live in the city’s Old and New Towns, both World Heritage sites. Edinburgh is built across seven hills, with 112 parks in the city limits. Located near the North Sea, Edinburgh’s climate is moderate, and its position between the coastline and hills has earned it the nickname "the windy city." For more information please contact globalhubs@cornell.edu Global Cornell Cornell China Center Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies Global Hubs Global Operations Migrations: A Global Grand Challenge Office of Global Learning Education Abroad International Services Campus Partners Atkinson Center for Sustainability Center for Teaching Innovation Einhorn Center for Community Engagement International Alumni Relations Language Resource Center Library from Off-Campus Student Experience Initiative Travel Registry Global Cornell 160 Day Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2801 +1-607-255-7993 Contact Us Follow us on: Cornell University ©2022 Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance