Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home New Utopias: Can We Eradicate Poverty? Events Past Event New Utopias: Can We Eradicate Poverty? Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo March 22, 2022 1:00 PM - 2:15 PM Online VIRTUAL EVENT | 1:00 p.m. (New York) | 6:00 p.m. (Paris) Recently, calls for implementation of a Universal Basic Income have grown, leading to a renewed debate on how to reduce, and eventually eliminate, poverty. The fourth webinar in the New Utopias Series will bring together experts from the U.S. and E.U to analyze the emerging causes of poverty and explore ways to address the needs of vulnerable populations. How have the causes of poverty, and our understanding of them, developed over time? What have been the results of basic income policies in the U.S. and E.U.? What does current data tell us about the efficacy of a Universal Basic Income? Is poverty eradication a realizable goal? New Utopias is a series of panel discussions on the world to come presented by Columbia Global Centers | Paris, the Alliance Program, and the European Institute. DISCUSSANTS: François Bourguignon is Director of Studies at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales. He served as Director of the Paris School of Economics from 2007 to the end of January 2013. His work, both theoretical and empirical, focuses on the distribution and redistribution of income in developing and developed countries. He is the author of several books and numerous articles in international economic journals and has received several scientific awards during his career and has taught in several foreign universities. He has extensive experience in advising several governments and international organizations. From 2003 to 2007, he was the Chief Economist and Senior Vice President of the World Bank in Washington. Timothy M. Smeeding is the Lee Rainwater Distinguished Professor of Public Affairs and Economics at the Robert M. La Follette School of Public Affairs, University of Wisconsin-Madison. He was director of the Institute for Research on Poverty from 2008–2014. He was named the John Kenneth Galbraith Fellow, American Academy of Political and Social Science, in 2017, and was the founding director of the Luxembourg Income Study from 1983-2006. Professor Smeeding’s recent work has been on social and economic mobility across generations, inequality of income, consumption and wealth, and poverty in national and cross-national contexts. Minna Ylikännö currently works as a senior specialist in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment of Finland. Previously, she has worked as a researcher, lecturer, and professor at the department of Social Policy at the University of Turku, and as a senior researcher and head of the research group at the Social Insurance Institution of Finland. She is an adjunct professor of social policy at the University of Turku. Ylikännö has extensively studied social policy, and in particular family and employment policy and the functioning of the social security system. She is an expert in the Finnish Basic Income experiment (2017-2018), and has given presentations on the subject in various seminars around the world. Pierre-André Chiappori (Moderator) is the E. Rowan and Barbara Steinschneider Professor of Economics at Columbia University. His research focuses on household behavior, risk, insurance and contract theory, general equilibrium and mathematical economics. He has been involved in numerous conferences as organizer or keynote speaker and has been editor and co-editor of many international economic publications, including the Journal of Political Economy, published by the University of Chicago. He is a Fellow of the European Economic Association, of the Econometric Society and of the Society of Labor Economists, and a Distinguished Fellow of the Becker Friedman Institute for Research in Economics at the University of Chicago. Contact Information Andrew Wells [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close