Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Professor Linda Fried Visits Nairobi Events Past Event Professor Linda Fried Visits Nairobi Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 10, 2017 - July 17, 2017 8:00 AM - 3:00 PM Nairobi, Kenya Prof.Fried's Visit Prof. Linda Fried is the Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health, Delamar Professor of Public Health Practice, Professor Epidemiology and Medicine and Senior Vice President of the Columbia Medical Center at Columbia University, New York. She will visit Nairobi from July 10 to July 17, 2017. Her visit will feature several high level meetings with the Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Health, Vice Chancellors and Key faculty members of Nairobi and Kenyatta University, as well as with the International Center for AIDS care and Treatment Program (ICAP) - a major project of the Mailman School of Public Health that is based in Kenya. She aims to explore further collaborations as well touch base with existing partners. Biography Dr. Linda P. Fried, Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health (since 2008) is a public health leader in the fields of epidemiology and geriatrics. She has dedicated her career to the science of healthy aging and defining how to transition to a world where greater longevity benefits people of all ages. An internationally renowned scientist, she has done seminal work in defining frailty as a clinical syndrome and illuminating both its causes and the potential for prevention as keys to optimizing health for older adults. Her scientific discoveries have transformed medical care and public health globally, and our understanding of how to build successful societies of longer lives. Under Fried's visionary leadership, the Mailman School continues to be a leader in transforming the health of populations and is one of the top five NIH-funded schools of public health. Fried led the School to build the nation's first program on climate and health and a multidisciplinary program that delivers economic evidence on the value of prevention. Fried opened the Columbia Center for Aging and elevated Columbia's leadership role in research, policy and programming to support healthy cities. As a leader in public health education, she initiated Columbia/Mailman's innovative interdisciplinary public health curriculum that emphasizes a life-course approach to prevention of disease and disability. She has worked to enhance the Mailman School faculty's effectiveness in optimizing the impact of their scientific research. As Dean, Fried is invited annually to participate in global and national policy and leadership activities for creating healthier societies. Fried is also the designer and co-founder of Experience Corps, an evidence-based program in which older volunteers serve in public schools in 22 cities. Acting as tutors and mentors, the older volunteers help boost students' academic success while bolstering their own health through the scientifically-designed program. Fried also led the evaluation of this innovative intervention that demonstrated its effectiveness in preventing physical disability and cognitive decline among older adults while making schools more successful and providing evidence for the potential win-wins of an aging society. Before coming to Columbia in 2008, Fried founded the Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, directed the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, and the Program in the Epidemiology and Biostatistics of Aging and held joint appointments in the Johns Hopkins Schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health. Fried is the recipient of numerous awards. Most recently, she was the recipient of the 2016 Inserm International Prize in Medical Research. She was named by the U.S. Congress as a "Living Legend in Medicine" (2004). In 2012, Fried was profiled by The New York Times as one of 15 world leaders in science. In 2014, Global publisher Thomson Reuters named her "one of the most influential scientific minds of the past decade." Last year, she was named to the PBS Organization's "Next Avenue 2015 Influencers in Aging," a list of thought-leaders who are changing how we age and think about aging in America. Fried is an elected member of the U.S. National Academy of Medicine, as well as the Association of American Physicians, the elected society of the U.S. leading physician scientists. Dean Fried was the 2016-17 President of the Association of American Physicians, the first Dean of a School of Public Health to be President of AAP. She is also Co-Chair of the World Economic Forum's Global Council on the Future of Human Enhancement and on the Steering Committee for their Council on Human Centric Health. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close