Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Kraft Global Fellows Program - Winter 2019 Events Past Event Kraft Global Fellows Program - Winter 2019 Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 4, 2019 - January 12, 2019 The Kraft Global Fellows Program is an initiative of the Kraft Family Fund for Inter cultural and Interfaith Awareness and the Office of the University Chaplain. Applications are now being accepted for the January 2019 Kraft Global Fellows research trip to Tunisia, Tunis and the Columbia Global Centers | Tunis. The group research project will focus on the religions, cultures and communities of Tunis. The project is designed and directed by Jewelnel Davis, University Chaplain and Associate Provost. Funding for the program is from the Kraft Family Fund for Interfaith and Inter cultural Awareness and the Office of University Chaplain; covered expenses include round trip airfare from NYC-JFK to Tunisia and return to NYC-JFK and lodging. Students must have a current passport that will not expire before June 1, 2019. Dates of the trip are January 3rd to January 12th, 2019. Students will travel together to and from NYC. No exceptions. Mission: • Please send a letter detailing your interest in the Kraft Global Fellows Program group research trip, an updated resume, a current list of student activities and leadership roles at Columbia University, an official transcript, a copy of your passport, and two letters of recommendation – at least one from your academic advisor and/or a faculty member. Deadline for submission of these materials is Wednesday October 31, 2018 before 5:00pm. • Please send these materials and any question to Denisse Pineda [email protected] • Students are required to interview with Chaplain Davis and the KGF advisory group to discuss their interests in this group project. Interviews will be conducted on November 12th through the 14th. • Only students that have submitted All of the requested materials by October 31st will be considered. No exceptions. • Only students selected for interviews will be contacted on November 7th. • No exceptions will be made for new passports or passport renewals. Requirements: • Fellows must be currently registered Columbia University undergraduate or graduate students. Students at affiliated institutions cannot be considered for the Kraft Global Fellows Program. Affiliated institutions (e.g. Barnard College, Union Theological Seminar and Teachers College) cannot be considered for the Kraft Global Fellows Program. • Fellows should anticipate out-of-pocket expenses of approximately $500. This includes personal needs items such as drinking water, hand sanitizers, motion sickness medication and computer travel adapters. Some meals, snacks and social activities will also be considered out-of-pocket expenses. Students must pay for all travel vaccinations and medications they require. • Students will submit daily 1-2 page reflection papers to Chaplain Davis at [email protected] before 9:00pm beginning January 4th through January 11th. On January 18th, 2019, each student will submit a 5- 8 final paper (also due before 9:00pm), which will include a description of the trip as well as a comprehensive analysis and reflection on major themes of learning from the experience. • Provide an opportunity for Columbia University students to add a global perspective to their Columbia University academic experience by utilizing the resources of the Columbia Global Centers. Moreover, for this year’s program, we encourage the Fellows to explore relevant topics such as multi-faith interconnectivity and issues of diversity in Tunisia. • Enrich the Columbia University community by creating opportunities for students to share their research, their experience, and the resources of the Columbia Global Centers once they return. Must be returning to campus for the Spring semester of academic year 2018-2019. • Promote interfaith and cross-cultural experience at Columbia University. Requirements: • Fellows must be currently registered Columbia University undergraduate or graduate students. Students at affiliated institutions cannot be considered for the Kraft Global Fellows Program. Affiliated institutions (e.g. Barnard College, Union Theological Seminar and Teachers College) cannot be considered for the Kraft Global Fellows Program. • Fellows should anticipate out-of-pocket expenses of approximately $500. This includes personal needs items such as drinking water, hand sanitizers, motion sickness medication and computer travel adapters. Some meals, snacks and social activities will also be considered out-of-pocket expenses. Students must pay for all travel vaccinations and medications they require. • Students will submit daily 1-2 page reflection papers to Chaplain Davis at [email protected] before 9:00pm beginning January 4th through January 11th. On January 18th, 2019, each student will submit a 5- 8 final paper (also due before 9:00pm), which will include a description of the trip as well as a comprehensive analysis and reflection on major themes of learning from the experience. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close