Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home The Core and its Modern Significance in a Global Context Events Past Event The Core and its Modern Significance in a Global Context Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo August 4, 2019 3:00 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing, No. 26, 1F Core Plaza, 1 Shanyuan Street, Zhongguancun, Haidian District, Beijing In 1919, amid the confusion and chaos that followed the end of World War I, Contemporary Civilization, a central component in Columbia University’s Core Curriculum, was born. This course aimed to discuss the central pillars of the Western philosophical canon. When the stability of the world appeared to be at stake, the professors at Columbia took their students to explore the history of philosophical, social, and political thoughts, contemplate upon the various value systems that served as the basis of human communities, and think about our individual worth in the world. Education is a way to come to terms with disorder. In 2019, the Core of Columbia has developed to incorporate six mandatory courses: Literature Humanities, Contemporary Civilization, University Writing, Art Humanities, Music Humanities, and Frontier of Science. From literature, philosophy to art history and music, the Core covers the main components of Western civilization. Over 100 years, the student body of Columbia has grown to be more diverse, and the tides of globalization have brought the problems encountered by communities all over the world to converge. As Chinese undergraduates, what is the point of studying Western classics, and can it help us to resolve the confusion we encounter as citizens of the world? How do we confront the difficulties we find in the academic world, and how does the Core take us beyond the classroom to seek answers to the questions we find in books? On August 4, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing invites you to the eleventh event of the Center's Education Panel Series. Six Columbia undergraduate students are invited to share their experiences with Columbia’s Core, and discuss how this one-hundred-year old curriculum seeks to address the problems of the present time. Speakers Jiachen FENG Jiachen recently earned a B.A. in philosophy from Columbia University. Her primary academic interests include political philosophy, social philosophy, and intellectual history. She studied modern political philosophy and the Counter-Enlightenment movement with Professor Mark Lilla, and has worked for NGOs and consulting firms in Hong Kong and the United States. During her time at Columbia, she was selected as a Core Scholar for her exemplary reflection on the Core Curriculum. Yameng ZHANG Yameng recently earned a B.A. in neuroscience from Columbia University, and will start her PhD program at the California Institute of Technology in the fall. Her research focuses on neural circuits and their correlated behavior, and her main research areas include fluid homeostasis and rewarding system which would demonstrate how brain and body cooperate to maintain mammalian internal environment's stability and satisfy biological drives. Other interests include brain machine interface, virtual and augmented reality, and Buddhism. She has also worked in Zuker Lab to explore the gene identify of neural pathways responsible for lipid tasting via in-situ hybridization. Charlotte PU Charlotte recently earned her B.A. in East Asian languages and cultures with departmental honors from Columbia University. She is interested in modern East Asian literature and cinema, media studies, and journalism. She has worked at Asia Society (New York) and the Beijing Bureau of the New York Times. Juzhi ZHENG Juzhi recently earned a B.A. in history from Columbia University. His areas of interest range from the ancient Mediterranean world to modern Japan. He was named a John Jay Scholar upon entering Columbia, and was a recipient of the Weatherhead East Asian Institute Undergraduate Training Grant, under the help of which he researched the history of South China Sea and the American occupation of Japan. He has interned at King & Wood Mallesons in Beijing. Alex YANG Alex is a rising senior at Columbia. His areas of specialization include continental philosophy, social philosophy, existentialism, and critical theory. He has completed independent research projects under the supervision of professors from the philosophy department at Columbia and the political science department at Peking University. Prior to moving to New York, he has studied and lived in London and Paris. He has co-organized and taught liberal arts seminars in Beijing for three consecutive years, and he serves as an instructor for the online education platform of Foreign Language Teaching and Research Press. Lengyi ZHANG Lengyi is a rising junior at Columbia, and her primary academic interests are social philosophy and the history of philosophy. She is a long-term intern at GLCAC, the first Chinese NGO dedicated to supporting LGBT youth and countering campus bullying, through which she became involved in queer activism and sex education, developed an in-depth understanding of Chinese non-profits, and gained the ability to communicate with people from different background. Notice The event will be in Chinese. Due to limited seats, registration will be verified through the QR code confirmation. Please present your QR code at the entrance. Please plan to arrive no earlier than the registration time and no later than 20 minutes after the end of registration period. If you are unable to attend the event, please inform us in advance. If you have any questions, please email [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close