Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Paris Center Stories: Leah Cahill Denison, '22 GSAS Paris Paris Center Stories: Leah Cahill Denison, '22 GSAS Meet master's student Leah Cahill Denison and learn more about the dual degree program in Modern & Contemporary Art: Critical & Curatorial Studies. May 13, 2022 What program brought you to Paris? What attracted you to it? When I was first thinking about applying to graduate school for art history, I came across the dual degree opportunity at Columbia and knew then that it was one of my top choices. There are two MA programs within the Art History & Archaeology Department at Columbia, both of which are very small and both of which offer the chance to apply to this special dual degree program with the Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne. I am in the Modern & Contemporary Art: Critical & Curatorial Studies program. I had also studied abroad in Paris as an undergraduate and have always wanted to return. I took a fifth course my first semester at Columbia so that I could take French and stayed up late at night after finishing my homework to study for the DELF B2, because it is something I knew I really wanted (all of my classes here are in French). Not only is Paris amazing and a great place to study art history, but being able to experience the French university system and way of thinking was something I really wanted to pursue. I have always held great respect for French culture and, as someone with some French heritage, it has always been of interest to me. Furthermore, having two master’s degrees will hopefully open up pathways to work internationally and be able to interact with Francophone professionals within the field. Tell us about your research project. My master’s thesis, “Mycologic: Iris van Herpen & the Mycelial Moment,” focuses on the work of Dutch fashion designer Iris van Herpen and her recent collection, Roots of Rebirth (Spring/Summer 2021). This collection is inspired by the mycorrhizal network, which speaks to her oeuvre’s symbiotic collaborations with other artists and scientists. The paper explores how this theme is a symptom of the larger cultural phenomenon of a recurrent fascination with the mushroom - ecologically, materially, pop-culturally and artistically - and how this signals a shift in the medium of fashion and the way in which art and science interact in the contemporary art scene. Favorite discoveries in Paris? My favorite thing to do here is to just walk around the city for hours with friends, just wandering around and discovering new little streets I have never been down and admiring this beautiful city. The Musée des Arts Décoratifs and the Musée de la Chasse et de la Nature are also amazing. What has been the most interesting and/or challenging experience here? There are so many little things that you would never guess would give you trouble like opening a bank account, getting a library card or even just getting your student ID. Everything has its own unique process here that is different from what I am used to. I think the hardest, but also the best, part is just being immersed in a completely different world with different customs. You have to adopt the European attitude of being more relaxed and going with the flow, but you also have to be able to stand up for yourself and be your own advocate when things aren’t working out or find a French friend to help you. You just have to stay positive and be grateful for all the wild stories you get out of it and realize how lucky you are just to be here in this amazing place. It is important to find the humor in these situations and be able to adapt to a culture which differs from your own. Do you have any advice for students who may be considering coming to Paris or applying to your program? The structure and requirements for writing papers here is different, they don’t give you a syllabus, a book list or directions for assignments. Even the way you make friends and interact with people on the street here is different, everything just makes you feel out of your element. The best thing you can do is to not be afraid to ask your French classmates for help - they are generally very kind and always willing to help out us confused Columbians. I have made a lot of friends here by just being honest and turning to the person next to me in class, introducing myself and asking for clarification. Lastly, no amount of studying will make you fluent, so you really have to immerse yourself once here and be patient. Bon courage ! Tags Paris Stories Paris Education Paris Research News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close