Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Nairobi Who We Are About Us About Us Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi (CGC | Nairobi) CGC | Nairobi is part of Columbia University’s global network of centers, which together aim to create opportunities in research, scholarship and teaching around the world. They also aim to expand Columbia's mission as a global University. Our Center serves as a regional hub for research and collaboration as part of Columbia University’s strategy to achieve a global presence and links the continent to Columbia’s scientific rigor, technological innovation, and academic leadership. The Center provides Columbia students and academics with a base from which to conduct research in and for Africa. Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: CGC | Nairobi participating in Women in Peace Conference, New York Slide 2: CGC | Nairobi, engaging the future (No Boundaries Children Creative Art Project) Slide 3: CGC | Nairobi-ANSRC Summit on Food Security Slide 4: Excited Beneficiaries during the IIPAN Conference as they Received their Certificates. Slide 5: 2019 Air Pollution Round Table Conference. CGC | Nairobi participating in Women in Peace Conference, New York CGC | Nairobi, engaging the future (No Boundaries Children Creative Art Project) CGC | Nairobi-ANSRC Summit on Food Security Excited Beneficiaries during the IIPAN Conference as they Received their Certificates. 2019 Air Pollution Round Table Conference. Previous Next CGC | Nairobi, also known as Columbia Global Center in Eastern and Southern Africa (CGC Africa), was established in Kenya on 12th May 2011. CGC Africa was officially launched in 2012 by the then President of the Republic of Kenya, H.E Hon. Mwai Kibaki. During its first five years of operation, the Global Center collaborated closely with Columbia’s Earth Institute in fostering relationships with policymakers, governments, and regional institutions to provide them with objective, science-based evidence for their pursuit of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. The culmination of the Millennium Development Goals in 2015 provided an opportunity to review the programmatic direction of the Center. At the Center, we aim to: Enable the highest levels of knowledge and learning in and for Africa. Create a hub for global curriculum and scholarly outreach in the region. Link the academic pursuits of the Global Center to Columbia’s main campus and around the world. Advance Columbia’s vision of producing 21st century global citizens, equipped to meet today’s greatest challenges. The establishment of the Center ushered in an exciting new era in an objective, unbiased scholarship in and for Africa. The Nairobi Center aims to become the preeminent research and development institute providing thought leadership, cutting-edge research, and expansion of scientific knowledge in the region. As an essential hub in the global Centers' network, and the only one to be based in Sub- Saharan Africa, the Center links Kenya and the continent to a vast body of knowledge, scholarship, and enquiry, and provides an avenue for Sub- Saharan Africa to influence debates at the highest level. The Center works closely with policymakers, governments, and regional and African-based institutions, providing them with objective, science-based advice free of bias or self-interest. The Center creates a platform for high-level policy dialogue and a forum that celebrates free speech, good governance, and basic human rights. The Nairobi Center facilitates academic institutions, governments, private sector, NGOs, multinational and others in the Eastern and Southern African region to work collaboratively with Columbia University students and faculty, to address critical global issues as equal partners. Through these efforts, we aim to enhance understanding and to participate in the advancing and exchange of knowledge. The Center’s office is gradually being filled with Columbia University programs, schools, students, and academics, who are working closely with Kenyan Government Ministries, and Kenya-based NGOs and universities to conduct a host of research and development initiatives. Currently, the Center hosts the Africa Nutritional Sciences Research Consortium, which brings together academic and research institutions across East Africa to build a Ph.D. training program in basic laboratory research in nutritional sciences. The Center hosts diverse projects under the President’s Global Innovation Fund in collaboration with different departments of the Columbia University Medical Center. The Nairobi Center continues to be an essential and dynamic hub in Columbia’s global Center network. The Columbia Global Centers Network There are currently nine Columbia Global Centers operating in Amman, Beijing, Mumbai, Paris, Istanbul, Nairobi, Santiago, Rio de Janeiro, and Tunis. The centers encourage new relationships across schools, institutes, and academic departments at Columbia. Attuned to the priorities and unique circumstances of its host region, each center leverages the University’s diverse intellectual capacities from across the undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools, as well as pursues a set of university-wide core activities that evolves over time based on the active engagement of faculty and students. The Centers help increase international content in the classroom; supplement the curriculum with international study abroad, internship opportunities, and course offerings; provide resources needed to attract students from abroad; facilitate research opportunities for Columbia students and faculty on globally relevant, interdisciplinary topics; and provide a point of ongoing engagement for international alumni. Functioning as a network, the global Centers encourage teaching and research that require working across disciplinary boundaries, having a presence in multiple regions, and engaging non-Columbia experts and scholars from those regions. Some of the Centers’ programs and research initiatives are country-specific, some regional, and an increasing number are multi-regional, even global. The network is growing, and each Center has started by building strong links with universities and institutions in its respective region. The long-term ambition is that many programs will have a global reach and involve multiple Centers in the network to engage in global conversations. Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close