Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Film Screening and Dialogue: Above the Drowning Sea Events Past Event Film Screening and Dialogue: Above the Drowning Sea Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Above the Drowning Sea December 27, 2017 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing On December 27, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will host a screening event on Above the Drowning Sea, a documentary of Jewish refugees in Shanghai during WWII, and a dialogue with the filmmaker René Balcer, an award-winning producer of Law and Order. Jewish refugees and the Chinese residents of Shanghai who helped them survive in China recount their experiences, terrors and deprivations as well as the remarkable friendships forged across cultures, friendships that survive to this day. Shot in six countries over four continents, Above the Drowning Sea takes you on an inspiring emotional journey across time and across the world. Truly a story that could have been ripped from today's headlines, the film vividly celebrates the heroism and humanity of ordinary people caught in extraordinary circumstances. Speakers René Balcer René Balcer is well known as the showrunner, head writer and executive producer of the iconic television series Law and Order, and as the co-creator and showrunner of its hit spin-off series Law and Order Criminal Intent. He is currently in production on Law and Order True Crime - The Menendez Murders, an eight-part limited series for NBC starring Edie Falco. René has also written and produced award-winning documentaries on art and China, and has just completed Above The Drowning Sea, a documentary about Jewish refugees in China. He has won an Emmy, the Peabody Award, a Writers Guild of America Award and four Edgar Awards for his television work. His writing on social issues has been recognized with awards from Planned Parenthood, the Alliance for Justice, the American Bar Association and other organizations. Carolyn Hsu-Balcer Carolyn Hsu-Balcer is a designer, philanthropist and art collector based in Los Angeles and New York. As a philanthropist, Carolyn has worked to foster Sino-American understanding through education and culture. Her interest in cross-cultural exchanges has led her to organize ground-breaking exhibits of Chinese art including Xu Bing Tobacco Project Virginia (2011 VMFA), Light Before Dawn (2013 Asia Society Hong Kong), Blooming in the Shadows (2011 China Institute NY), Ming Cho Lee: A Retrospective (2011 Ningbo Museum), and Oil and Water:Re-Interpreting Ink (2014 MOCA NY). Carolyn has produced award-winning documentaries on Chinese art, including The No Name Painting Association and Xu Bing Tobacco Project Virginia. In publishing, she has sponsored the publication of a 13-volume catalogue of the works of the Wuming group of Chinese artists, and the publication of Ai Wei Wei: New York Photographs 1983-1993. Shuibo Wang Shuibo Wang is an Oscar Nominated filmmaker and Guggenheim Fellow. He has been associated with the NFB Canada. He is also a professor and the founding director of Film & Media Art department at Central Academy of Fine Arts. His animated documentary Sunrise Over Tiananmen Square was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short in 1999, and won the Gemini Award for Best History and Biography Documentary, and many other awards. During 2003 to 2005, he wrote and directed They Chose China, a documentary about twenty-one Americans along with one British POWs who, 50 years ago refused to be repatriated to their homeland after the Korean War and chose to join the communist China instead, A NFB and ARTE co-production. They Chose China has been awarded with 1st Prize at 25th Black Maria Film Festival in New Jersey, Golden Gate Award for Best TV Feature Documentary at 49th San Francisco International Film Festival and Remi Award for Best Documentary at 2006 WORLDFEST Houston and many others. It was also nominated for IDA 22nd Annual Distinguished Documentary Achievement Award and selected for 2006 Toronto's Hot Docs International Documentary Film Festival and many other festivals both in Canada and abroad. Hongyun Sun Hongyun Sun Ph.D. is an associate professor at Beijing Film Academy. She was graduate from Film Art School of Beijing Normal University, postdoctoral researcher at China Film Art Research Center，and visiting scholar at New York University. Dr. Hongyun Sun has been mainly engaged in theory and practice of documentary film, television and video. Made some documentaries such as China in the eyes of Joris Ivens for CCTV, etc. She has published her monograph Truth Game: New Documentary Film in the West, edited Joris Ivens and Documentary Film (with Kees Bakker), and Translated two books: Documentary Storytelling: Making Stronger and More Dramatic (by Sheila Curran Bernard) and Living Dangerously: A Biography Of Joris Ivens ( by Hans Shoots) . Moderator Zhang Chun Dr. Zhang Chun is the managing editor of a fully refereed English-language academic journal, the Frontiers of Literary Studies in China (FLSC), co-published by Higher Education Press, Beijing, and Brill, Leiden. She has published 12 research articles in leading academic journals in Chinese, and completed her dissertation entitled Anxieties of Profiles: ‘The Modern Man’ and Modernity in Early Chinese Films (1921-1937). Agenda 6：00 p.m. - 6：30 p.m. Registration 6：30 p.m. - 8：00 p.m. Film Screening Above the Drowning Sea 8：00 p.m. - 8：40 p.m. Dialogue with Director Balcer 8：40 p.m. - 9：00 p.m. Q&A Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close