Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Oral Health and Healthcare during COVID-19: Lessons from India, Kenya and the United States (Part II) Events Past Event Oral Health and Healthcare during COVID-19: Lessons from India, Kenya and the United States (Part II) Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo July 20, 2020 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM Online Time: 6:30 pm (Mumbai) | 4:00 pm (Nairobi) | 9:00 am (New York) Oral health services have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. With healthcare systems struggling to cope with the increasing number of patients impacted by the novel coronavirus worldwide, there has been a concomitant decline in the provision of elective and non-emergency oral and dental services. This has impacted not only access to and utilization of clinical dental services, but also community-based preventive programming, and the education of dentists and dentists-in-training. Join Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai and Columbia Global Centers | Nairobi for a two-part series, as we discuss lessons learned from India, Kenya and the United States in finding new and innovative ways to provide clinical, outreach and educational services during this pandemic. Part II: Remote Learning and Training for Dentists and Dental Students Introductory Remarks: ● Ravina Aggarwal, Director, Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai Moderator: ● Kavita P. Ahluwalia, Associate Professor and Program Director, Postdoctoral Program in Dental Public Health, Columbia University College of Dental Medicine (CDM) Speakers: ● James B. Fine, Professor and Associate Dean of Postdoctoral Programs, CDM ● Victor Badner, Associate Professor and Chair, Department of Dentistry and Oral Maxillofacial Surgery, Jacobi Medical Center ● Regina Mutave James, Professor and Dean, School of Dental Sciences, University of Nairobi, Kenya ● Vikrant Mohanty, Associate Professor and Head, Public Health Dentistry, Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, New Delhi Expand all Collapse all Panel Bios Dr. James B. Fine James B. Fine. DMD is the Senior Academic Dean for Postdoctoral Academic and Student Affairs and Continuing Education, Professor of Clinical Dentistry with tenure of title at Columbia University's College of Dental Medicine, and Attending Dental Surgeon on the Presbyterian Hospital Dental Service. He has been on the faculty of the College of Dental Medicine for over 30 years. He has participated extensively in the educational program, teaching dental students and postdoctoral students. Dr. Fine is the elected chairman of the college's Curriculum Committee and the chairman of the Postdoctoral Education Committee. He is currently the course director of numerous courses in the Postdoctoral Periodontics program. Over the years he has redesigned parts of the predoctoral curriculum in Periodontics. He has authored or co-authored numerous articles, chapters and abstracts in the periodontal literature. Additionally, he has presented at invited lectures and seminars. Dr. Fine maintains a clinical practice limited to Periodontics and Implantology at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center faculty practice in Northern Manhattan Dr. Regina Mutave James Dr. Mutave holds a Doctor of Philosophy in Community and Preventive Dentistry from the University of Nairobi. She is a registered specialist in public health through the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Board. Dr. Mutave collaborated with team members to plan and develop a report for the first Kenya National Oral Health Survey in 2015. Additionally, she is a member of a team that is responsible for the Tobacco Uptake Prevention and Cessation Program which trains dentists and Community Oral Health Officers to help cease tobacco use across the country. Dr. Vikrant Mohanty Dr. Mohanty is Currently working as Associate Professor and Head of Department, Department of Public Health Dentistry, Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, Govt. of NCT of Delhi. He is also the Head of Tobacco Cessation Clinic, Medical Officer In charge of Mobile Clinic Project, Resource Member in National Oral Health Program - Govt. of India, Program Coordinator of National Resource Center of Oral health and Tobacco Cessation and the Executive Member of the Indian Association of Public Health Dentistry. Dr. Victor Badnel Victor Badner, DMD, MPH, Associate Professor and Chair, Department of Dentistry and Oral Maxillofacial Surgery, Jacobi Medical Center, received a dental degree from Harvard and a Master’s in Public Health from UCLA. In addition, he completed a General Practice Residency at Montefiore Hospital and a Dental Public Health residency at Univ. Ca. SF. In addition to training General Practice Residents, Dr. Badner is the Director of Jacobi Medical Center’s Dental Public Health Residency Program, and holds leadership positions at the Commission of Dental Accreditation. Dr. Badner has published and received numerous grants to assess oral health needs and promote oral health among vulnerable populations including those with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, People Living with HIV/AIDS, South Asians, Latinos and underserved women and mothers. He is the founder and leader of a cross-national course on Dental Public Health that has engendered cross program collaborations, and has set in motion the successful training and certification of Dental Public Health specialists. Dr. Kavita Ahluwalia - Moderator Dr. Ahluwalia received both a DDS and MPH from the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, and completed a residency in Dental Public Health from the Veterans Administration in Perry Point, Maryland. She is Board Certified by the American Board of Dental Public Health, and she is the Director of the College’s Dental Public Health Residency Program. Dr. Ahluwalia’s research is focused on the utilization of Community-Based Participatory (CBPR) methods to address oral health and oral healthcare disparities across the lifespan; in particular, she is interested in working with communities and non-dental professionals to integrate oral health into existing systems of care both in the United States and East Africa. She has worked with local and regional agencies such as Meals-on-Wheels, New York City’s Department for the Aging, and the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to address programmatic and policy concerns among vulnerable populations. Dr. Ahluwalia has been funded by the National Institute on Aging, the National Cancer Institute, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Legacy Foundation, the Administration for Community Living, New York State Health Department and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to address the oral health needs of community-dwelling and institutionalized older adults. In addition to mentoring student research, Dr. Ahluwalia supervises the research of dental public health residents, directs the College’s course in Foundational Analytic Skills and Research Methods, and teaches Program Evaluation at the Mailman School of Public Health. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close