Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Master Class in Writing with Author Jake Lamar Events Past Event Master Class in Writing with Author Jake Lamar Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo Introduction to the Master Class in Writing October 10, 2019 - October 24, 2019 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM 4, rue de Chevreuse, 75006 Paris Reid Hall is pleased to present a master class in writing with author Jake Lamar. This master class will be composed of three separate two-hour workshops taking place on the following Thursdays: October 10, 17, and 24, 2019. The total cost for these three sessions in 300€. * Participants will be asked to read several texts before each session. During the sessions, they will first discuss the assigned works. Then there will be a half-hour of in-class writing. Finally, participants will be invited to read aloud the work they produced in class. The first workshop will be on dialogue. How do writers capture patterns of speech authentically while, at the same time, putting a personal, authorial stamp on dialogue? How is one author's "ear" different from another's? The second workshop will be on narration. Whether one is writing fiction, nonfiction or poetry, there is always a fundamental question for the author: Who is telling this story, conveying these ideas, making these observations? The third workshop will be on character. Why do some characters inspire empathy in some readers while leaving others cold? By what alchemy do writers make readers "care" about a character? And what do we even mean when we talk about characters being "likable" or "relatable"? * The master class is subject to cancellation if we receive less than six participants. In this case, all fees will be refunded. SCHEDULE OF WORKSHOPS October 10 - "Training Your Ear: Mysteries of Writing Strong Dialogue" How do authors find the voices of their characters? How do writers capture patterns of speech authentically while, at the same time, putting a personal, authorial stamp on dialogue? How is one author's "ear" different from another's? In this seminar, we will try to demystify the process by studying texts from four different genres. This workshop will also include an in-class writing assignment. October 17 - "The Narrator's Voice. Modes of Storytelling" Whether one is writing fiction, nonfiction or poetry, there is always a fundamental issue for the author: Who is telling this story, conveying these ideas, making these observations? If you are writing in the first person, is the "I" you? And are you a reliable narrator? If you're writing in the third person, is your narrator a God-like speaker? Is this god omniscient and objective or is she subjective, limited in her knowledge? And who exactly is speaking on those rare occasions when a text is written in the second person, or the first person plural? We will explore all these issues in this seminar. We will be working with several texts but they are all relatively short. This workshop will also include an in-class writing assignment. October 24 - "Caring about a Character: What does it mean for the reader? What challenge does it present to the writer? One hears it all the time. A reader praises a book because she finds the characters "likable" or "relatable." Another reader dismisses a book because he couldn't "identify with the characters" or, more damningly, "didn't care about the characters." Why do some characters---or voices---inspire empathy in some readers while leaving others cold? By what alchemy do writers "make people care"? Should "caring" even matter? These are ancient literary mysteries, of course. All the more reason to explore them in a creative writing workshop. Jake Lamar - photo by Ulf Andersen JAKE LAMAR was born in 1961 and grew up in the Bronx, New York. He has lived in Paris, France since 1993. He is the author of a memoir, seven novels, numerous essays, reviews and short stories, and a play. His most recent work, Viper's Dream, is both a crime novel and a radio drama, set in the jazz world of Harlem between 1936 and 1961. He is a recipient of the Lyndhurst Prize (for his first book, Bourgeois Blues), a prestigious French National Book Center grant (for his novel Postérité), France’s Grand Prize for best foreign thriller (for his novel The Last Integrationist), and a Beaumarchais fellowship for his play Brothers in Exile. He is currently working on a memoir about his life in Paris. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close