Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Rio Who We Are Visiting Rio Visiting Rio Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 Previous Next RIO – A DYNAMIC CITY WITH SIGHTS FOR ALL The rainforest, beaches, hills and lagoons draw millions of tourists each year to the Wonderful City, or Cidade Maravilhosa, as it is known in Portuguese. Both Rio Antigo (Old Rio) and Rio Moderno (Modern Rio) contribute to the iconic Zona Sul (South Zone) region of the city. Zona Sul runs from Gloria, the first neighborhood of this district – near bohemian neighborhoods of Lapa and Santa Teresa – to chic Leblon and Gávea. Rio can be easily explored by the landscaped highways that connect the Aterro do Flamengo – where you can see the impressive SugarLoaf and the Marina – to the famous beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon. In Flamengo and Botafogo, you can enjoy craft beer and burgers, an alternative music scene, and Shopping Rio Sul mall. Each neighborhood offers a distinct flavor of Rio, and the wide variety of gastronomy, music, entertainment and architecture highlight the many cultures and people that constitute this city. In Rio's downtown center, daytime pedestrians include businesspeople, market-goers, and visitors to the Theatro Municipal, Museu do Amanhã (Museum of Tomorrow), and Port Area - legacy of the Olympic Games. At night, the area transforms into the center of dance, music, and performance, as people fill the streets, restaurants, and clubs of Lapa. Rio’s favelas (informal communities) and subúrbios (areas distant from downtown) are a critical source of social and cultural production for Brazil. Favelas are the birthplace of many of Brazil’s most celebrated musical genres and musicians, and the suburbs provide beautiful beaches, as well as traditional and modern restaurants and nightlife. Brazil Visas and passport requirements To enter Brazil, a passport valid for at least six months from the date of entry is required. We advise visitors to contact the embassy to check the visa requirements specific to their country of origin (citizens of certain countries are exempt of the visa requirement for stays shorter than 90 days). Visas are, however, required by nationals of Australia, Canada and the United States, among many others. The cost of and procedure for tourist/ business visa applications varies according to nationality – you should directly contact the Brazilian consulate in your country for details. Tourist visas are valid for a period of up to 90 days – if an extension is needed, tourists must contact the Federal Police to request one, though a request does not guarantee the extension. FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CHECK YOUR EMBASSY’S WEBSITE. Getting Around The city of Rio is easily navigated by our dependable and efficient metro system, a public bike-sharing system, and buses. Taxis are also readily available, as are ride-sharing services such as Uber and Cabify. Neighborhoods in the South Side easily traveled on foot. Rio has a zero-tolerance policy towards drinking and driving – that is, anyone driving with any detectable alcohol in their bloodstream will have their license suspended and charged a fine. Local police set up various check-points around the city each night. Expand all Collapse all Renting a car A valid driver's license, credit card and passport are required to rent a car. Most agencies require drivers to be at least 25 years of age, though some will rent (with an additional fee) to drivers under 25. If you are quoted prices on the phone, make sure they include insurance, which is compulsory. Car-rental agencies can be found at both airports and along Avenida Princesa Isabel in Copacabana. At the international airport, Hertz, Localiza and Unidas provide rentals. In Copacabana, among the many are Hertz and Localiza. Subway Rio’s metro system is an easy and fast way to get around the city. During Carnaval, the metro operates nonstop from 5am Saturday morning until at least 11pm on Tuesday. Its lines are air-conditioned, clean, fast and safe. The main line runs from Ipanema-General Osório to Saens Peña, connecting with the secondary line to Estácio (which provides service to São Cristóvão, Maracanã and beyond). The main stops in Centro are Cinelândia and Carioca. Since June 2016, a new line (linha 4) connects Ipanema to Barra da Tijuca. It runs from General Osório to Jardim Oceânico, with stops in Ipanema, Leblon and São Conrado. A stop at Gávea will eventually be added to the line as well. You can purchase a cartão pré-pago (prepaid card) from a kiosk in any metro station using cash (no change given) with a minimum of R$5 (cash) or more. You can then recharge it at any kiosk. Free subway maps are available at most ticket booths. Mobile service You can purchase a chip pré-pago (prepaid chip) from most kiosks using cash to enable your phone service while in Brazil. The primary operators are Vivo, Claro, TIM, and and Oi. You can then purchase additional credit at any kiosk as well. Remember that your mobile phone must run on the GSM network for operate internationally. In addition, the number associated with your phone will change to a local Brazilian number while the pre-paid chip is inserted. Rio Turism Websites Visit Rio Visit Brasil Eat in Rio Brazil Expedition Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close