Skip to main content Top Menu Member log in Join Council of the Americas Join Americas Society LatAm in Focus: The Once and Future Summit of the Americas It’s been a bumpy road to the June event in Los Angeles. AS/COA’s Steve Liston compares the Ninth Summit to past ones and charts a vision for the future. En Casa: El próximo capítulo The Music of the Americas video series brought art into homes when we needed it most. Support the next chapter of En Casa and let’s keep the music alive! What's at Stake in Mexico's 2022 Gubernatorial Elections? With parties setting sights on the 2024 presidential vote, there’s a lot riding on the six governors’ races taking place June 5. Senate Testimony: The Ninth Summit of the Americas The Los Angeles summit offers the opportunity for Washington to make a commitment to regional growth and recovery, says AS/COA’s Eric Farnsworth. Americas Society Presents Geles Cabrera: Museo Escultórico The Mexican sculptor’s first U.S. exhibition opens June 8 and spans 40 years of her career. PreviousNext Main navigation Attend Upcoming Events Past Events Live Broadcasts Engage AS Membership COA Membership YPA Membership Signature Programs Music Visual Arts Working Groups Analysis News & Analysis AS/COA in the News Podcasts Videos Americas Quarterly About Experts & Leadership Careers AS Board of Directors COA Board of Directors COA Corporate Members Chairman's International Advisory Council 680 Park Ave Locations Search Top Menu Member log in Join Council of the Americas Join Americas Society Search Main navigation Attend Upcoming Events Past Events Live Broadcasts Engage AS Membership COA Membership YPA Membership Signature Programs Music Visual Arts Working Groups Analysis News & Analysis AS/COA in the News Podcasts Videos Americas Quarterly About Experts & Leadership Careers AS Board of Directors COA Board of Directors COA Corporate Members Chairman's International Advisory Council 680 Park Ave Locations Search Top Menu Member log in Join Council of the Americas Join Americas Society Search LatAm in Focus: The Once and Future Summit of the Americas It’s been a bumpy road to the June event in Los Angeles. AS/COA’s Steve Liston compares the Ninth Summit to past ones and charts a vision for the future. En Casa: El próximo capítulo The Music of the Americas video series brought art into homes when we needed it most. Support the next chapter of En Casa and let’s keep the music alive! What's at Stake in Mexico's 2022 Gubernatorial Elections? With parties setting sights on the 2024 presidential vote, there’s a lot riding on the six governors’ races taking place June 5. Senate Testimony: The Ninth Summit of the Americas The Los Angeles summit offers the opportunity for Washington to make a commitment to regional growth and recovery, says AS/COA’s Eric Farnsworth. Americas Society Presents Geles Cabrera: Museo Escultórico The Mexican sculptor’s first U.S. exhibition opens June 8 and spans 40 years of her career. PreviousNext Attend See More Past Events Regional Roundtable: Ethical, Responsible, and Inclusive Use of Technology Thursday, June 2, 1:00 pm Talea Ensemble: Encores Thursday, June 2, 7:30 pm YPA Field Trip: Queens Night Market Saturday, June 4, 6:00 pm News & Analysis SEE MORE What You Need to Know about the Ninth Summit of the Americas AS/COA’s Steve Liston shares background information on the upcoming Summit, to be held in June in Los Angeles. What's at Stake in Mexico's 2022 Gubernatorial Elections? With parties setting sights on the 2024 presidential vote, there’s a lot riding on the six governors’ races taking place June 5. Who’s Coming to the Summit of the Americas? Some Latin American leaders are on the fence about attending the hemispheric summit in California. Watch & Listen See More Financing Climate Change Adaptation in Latin America As droughts, extreme weather events, and water insecurity affect Latin America, the panelists described how the private sector can be part of the solution. Trade and Environment in Latin America and the Caribbean Experts addressed the progress and limitations in the region for green business initiatives, including decarbonization and agricultural sustainability. Secretary Blinken Addresses the 52nd Washington Conference on the Americas The U.S. secretary of state spoke about regional unity ahead of the Summit of the Americas during a private luncheon as a part of the COA conference. Membership AS Join COA Join YPA Join Signature Programs See More Washington Conference on the Americas COA’s Washington Conference on the Americas series brings together presidents, cabinet-level officials, and senior leaders from the public and private sectors. Council of the Americas Symposium and BRAVO Business Awards These forums offer an opportunity for unprecedented influence, generating a snapshot of the current social and economic landscape in Latin America and the Caribbean. AS/COA Women's Hemispheric Network Explore AS/COA's Women's Hemispheric Network portal, promoting active discussion on women's empowerment and leadership in the Americas. Music See More Music of the Americas: Contemporary and Baroque We are back live with Talea Ensemble. Plus, En Casa takes us to Costa Rica and Recuerdos takes us back to the concert by Symphonie des Dragons. Music at the 52nd Washington Conference on the Americas Watch performances by musicians from throughout the hemisphere in this series of videos recorded especially for the 2022 conference. En Casa: El próximo capítulo The Music of the Americas video series brought art into homes when we needed it most. Support the next chapter of En Casa and let’s keep the music alive! Visual Arts See More Hélio Oiticica's Subterranean Tropicália Projects: PN15 at Socrates Sculpture Park The late Brazilian artist's large-scale outdoor installation, co-presented by Americas Society, is on view in the Queens park from May 14 to August 14. Americas Society Announces Its Upcoming 2022 Visual Arts Programming Coming up at Americas Society: Exhibitions featuring artists from Brazil, Mexico, and the Caribbean; a book launch; and more. In the Studio: Dialogues with Contemporary Artists Visual Arts' Instagram Live series invites artists to contribute their work and ideas. Sign up for our newsletters Sign up for our newsletters News&Views El Chasqui AQ’s Week in Review Culture Programs Americas Quarterly READ MORE AT AQ In El Salvador, a Chastened Opposition Looks to Find Its Way Traditional and new parties alike are dogged by a charismatic president and weak organizational structures. AQ Podcast: Changes in Venezuela What signs of an economic shift mean for U.S.-Venezuela relations and the opposition to Nicolás Maduro. A New Reality for the MAS in Bolivia Once hegemonic, the ruling party is now merely dominant. Here's what that means for the country's politics. Footer menu About Us Experts & Leadership AS/COA In the News Americas Society Board Careers Council of the Americas Board Contact COA Corporate Members Sign up for our News & Views newsletter EMAIL ADDRESS Submit © 2022 Americas Society/Council of the Americas. All rights reserved.