Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Global Seminar: Introduction and Course Launch: “The Amazon We Want” Events Current and Upcoming Global Seminar: Introduction and Course Launch: “The Amazon We Want” Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 13, 2022 11:00 AM - 12:30 PM Online The Summer 2022 Collaboratory: The Amazon Region We Want is a virtual global program exploring the current state of the Amazon ecosystem and its communities. Through four seminars given by experts and locals in the field, participants will have the opportunity to learn, discuss, and raise awareness about the state of the Amazon region. This session will give participants an overview of the state of the Amazon ecosystem, current trends, and their implications for the long-term well-being of the region, as well as opportunities and policy-relevant options for conservation and sustainable development. Speakers: Jeffrey D. Sachs (Columbia University and SDSN) Emma Torres (SDSN) Carlos Nobre (Instituto de Estudos Avançados, Universidade de São Paulo) Andrea Encalada (Universidad de San Francisco de Quito, Ecuador) Reading: SPA Executive Summary (English / Portuguese / Spanish) >> Register here. Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: The Amazon We Want Slide 2: Speakers Jeffrey Sachs and Emma Torres Slide 3: Speakers Carlos Nobre and Andrea Encalada Previous Next ABOUT THE SPEAKERS Jeffrey D. Sachs is a world-renowned economics professor, bestselling author, innovative educator, and global leader in sustainable development. Professor Sachs serves as Professor at Columbia University. He is Director of the Center for Sustainable Development, Director of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, and an SDG Advocate for UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres. From 2001-2018, Sachs served as Special Advisor to the UN Secretary General (Kofi Annan 2001-2007, Ban Ki-moon 2008-2016, and Antonio Guterres 2017-2018). Professor Sachs is widely recognized for bold and effective strategies to address complex challenges including debt crises, hyperinflations, the transition from central planning to market economies, the control of AIDS, malaria, and other diseases, the escape from extreme poverty and the battle against human-induced climate change. He has received 28 honorary degrees and was twice named among Time magazine’s 100 most influential world leaders. Emma Torres enjoys a long experience in the United Nations, with responsibilities involving management, strategic programme development, and negotiations to promote sustainable development initiatives globally and regionally. She coordinated the strategic initiative A Biodiversity SuperPower, which makes the case for biodiversity’s importance to the development, equity, and long- term competitiveness of the Latin America and Caribbean region. As UNDP coordinator for the Commission on Development and Environment for Latin America and the Caribbean she produced the Our Own Agenda and Amazonia without Myths reports. Both remain a point of reference in the field. Emma holds an MA in Economics from Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain; a Diploma in Language and French Civilization from Sorbonne, Paris; and certificates in Environmental Economics and Climate Change, IIED, at Harvard University. Carlos Nobre is a Brazilian Earth System scientist with a PhD in Meteorology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), USA. Nobre’s work mostly focus on the Amazon and its impacts on the Earth system. He chaired the Large-Scale Biosphere-Atmosphere Experiment in Amazonia (LBA). He has also been a member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). He was National Secretary for Research and Development Policies at the Ministry of Science, Technology & Innovation of Brazil and President of Brazil’s Agency for Post-Graduate Education (CAPES). He is a foreign member of the US National Academy of Sciences, and member of the Brazilian Academy of Sciences and the World Academy of Sciences. Andrea C. Encalada is an Ecuadorian Professor at San Francisco de Quito University, Director of the Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology, and Co-director of the BIOSFERA Research Institute. Dr. Encalada is also an adjunct Professor of the Geography Department of University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. Dr. Encalada holds a Ph.D. degree from Cornell University, USA, and worked as postdoctoral fellow at the University of Coimbra, Portugal. She is also a member of the Ecuadorian Academy of Sciences and board member of Jocoto Conservation Foundation. Dr. Encalada’s research is focused mainly on the ecology of tropical rivers, and has a special interest in population, community and ecosystem responses of lotic ecosystems to climate change, and the development and application of bioindicators of pollution and other anthropogenic disturbances in tropical rivers. Currently she is part of the Andean-Amazon Free Flowing Rivers initiative and also a member of the Amazon Citizen Science group. Register Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close