Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Women’s Health and Air Pollution Events Past Event Women’s Health and Air Pollution Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo December 3, 2019 6:00 PM - 8:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai, 12-13, Maker Chambers VI, First floor, Jamnalal Bajaj Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 Columbia Global Centers | Mumbai invites you to a discussion on “Women’s Health and Air Pollution” featuring Columbia University professors Jeanine D’Armiento, Jasmine McDonald and Mary Beth Terry, and Qamar Rahman, Dean of Research at Amity University, Lucknow. Women in India are living with hazardous indoor and outdoor air quality conditions. Air pollution has been linked to shortened life spans and adverse health conditions, including pulmonary disorders and cancers. Panelists will discuss the current state of research regarding particulate matter and the rising cases of early onset breast cancer, the impact of burning dirty fuels on health, how to empower women who are most affected by this, and what tools we can give women to better monitor their health situation. To register, please send an email to [email protected] About the speakers: Dr. Jeanine D’Armiento is a Professor of Medicine in Anesthesiology and Director of the Center for Molecular Pulmonary Disease in Anesthesiology and Physiology and Cellular Biophysics at Columbia University’s Medical Center. She is also the Director for the Center for LAM and Rare Lung Diseases at Columbia University, which serves one of the largest populations of women with LAM in addition to patients with Alpha-1 Antitrypsin deficiency. Dr. D’Armiento’s laboratory integrates both in vitro and in vivo approaches and is uniquely situated to characterize the molecular changes in the study of lung injury and disease so as to identify potential therapeutic targets. The foremost goal of her program is to develop insight into lung physiology and pathology through understanding the fundamental mechanisms modulating lung injury and repair, and translating these findings into practical clinical solutions. Her present work in this area examines a series of therapeutic approaches to treat COPD based on her fundamental basic studies. She serves as Chair of the board of directors of the Alpha1 Foundation and is a Consultant to the Director of the Office of Rare Disease, NCATs, National Institute of Health. Dr. Jasmine McDonald is Associate Professor of Epidemiology at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health and Co-Director of the Continuing Umbrella of Research Experience (CURE) Program at Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Her research portfolio focuses on key windows across the lifecourse where the breast tissue may be more vulnerable to environmental exposures, such as during the pubertal and postpartum periods of breast development. She has a K01 from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to examine the role of childhood infections on pubertal timing in girls. She is also funded through NCI to examine structural and physiological changes in the breast microenvironment in postpartum women. Given Dr. McDonald’s doctoral training in basic sciences and her postdoctoral experiences in Cancer Epidemiology in high-risk populations, her research portfolio incorporates molecular epidemiology tools to elucidate etiological causes and biological mechanisms of breast cancer prevention in young women. Dr. Qamar Rahman is currently the Dean of Research as well as a Distinguished Professor at Amity University, Lucknow Campus. She also serves as the European Union’s External Advisor on Risk Governance of Nanotechnology, is a visiting professor at the University of Rostock German and a research professor at Louisiana University, USA. Dr. Rahman received her MSc and PhD in Chemistry from Agra University. Her research focuses on chemical and biological aspects of the toxicity of occupational and environmental particulate air pollutants (fibers, particles, and nanoparticles). Dr. Mary Beth Terry is a Professor of Epidemiology at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, where she heads the Chronic Disease Research Unit for the Epidemiology Department, and is the Associate Director of Population Sciences and Community Outreach for the Cancer Center. She is a cancer epidemiologist with over 20 years of leading epidemiologic studies of breast cancer etiology specifically focused on the role genetics, epigenetics, and other biomarkers play in modifying the effects of environmental exposures. Dr. Terry has specific expertise in early onset breast cancer, and in the role environmental exposures including air pollution may have on risk of early onset breast cancer. She has authored or co-authored over 300 scientific publications. In addition to her doctorate in epidemiology, Dr. Terry has a Master's degree in economics and previously worked as an econometrician and program evaluator for a number of government-sponsored programs. Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close