Columbia University in the City of New York Skip to navigation [n] Skip to content [c] Skip to footer [f] Navigation About Mission People Experts Events Spanish Database Sponsors Contact Case Law Law & Standards Publications Special Collection of the Case Law on Freedom of Expression Newsletter Archive Updates Prizes 2022 Prize Winners 2018 Excellence in Legal Services 2018 Significant Legal Ruling 2016 Prize Winners 2015 Prize Winners Search EN | ES | FR | عربي | РУС | PT Twitter Newsletter Sign Up Email Address Sign Up Leave this field empty if you're human: The Case of a Motorcycle Helmet Obligation for Turban Wearers The Federal Administrative Court of Germany held that an obligation to wear a helmet while motorcycling, even if it interfered with the Sikh religious commandment to wear a turban, was constitutional. Lloyd v. Google LLC The UK Supreme Court unanimously held that Google was not liable to pay damages for unlawfully collecting data from millions of Apple iPhone users in England and Wales. Canadian Constitution Foundation v. Attorney General of Canada The Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Canada) declared section 91 of the Canada Elections Act, 2000 invalid. This provision prohibited the publication of false news such as association of a prospective candidate with an offense, during the election period. OOO Memo v. Russia The ECtHR expressed its concerns about the risk for democracy of court proceedings instituted with a view to limiting public participation, interfering with the freedom of expression by media, journalists, or other public watchdogs. This is the first time the ECtHR has referred to the notion of SLAPP (Strategic Litigation Against Public Participation). An Initiative of Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger Columbia Global Freedom of Expression seeks to contribute to the development of an integrated and progressive jurisprudence and to advance understanding of the norms and institutions that best protect the free flow of information and expression. Learn More New Database Additions Explore The Library Defamation / Reputation, Digital Rights August 7, 2020 X v. Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data Hong Kong Digital Rights, Extraterritorial Jurisdiction, Right to be forgotten Violence Against Speakers / Impunity October 29, 2014 Basnet and Basnet v. Nepal Nepal Violence Violence Against Speakers / Impunity December 21, 2020 Hong Kong Journalists Ass’n v. Commissioner of Police Hong Kong Demonstration, Violence Privacy, Data Protection and Retention September 17, 2020 Don Segundo v. Google LLC Spain Filtering and Blocking, Google, Right to be forgotten, Search Engines Privacy, Data Protection and Retention May 19, 2020 Donlisander Communication S.r.l.s. v. S.A. Italy Google, Honor and Reputation, Privacy, Right to be forgotten July 4, 2019 The Case of a Motorcycle Helmet Obligation for Turban Wearers Germany Freedom of Religion, Public Interest, Religion Political Expression February 27, 2018 Alternative für Deutschland (AfD) v. Federal Minister of Education and Research Germany Elections, Government or State Speech, Members of the Executive Branch Privacy, Data Protection and Retention March 27, 2020 P.M.F. v. RCS Mediagroup Italy Honor and Reputation, Privacy, Right to be forgotten Artistic Expression December 18, 1996 Leibovitz v. Paramount Pictures Corporation United States Copyright, Public Interest, Satire/Parody Violence Against Speakers / Impunity March 15, 2018 Case of Herzog et al. v. Brazil Brazil Right to Truth Violence Against Speakers / Impunity November 3, 2020 Rana Muhammad Arshad v. Pakistan Pakistan Surveillance, Violence Violence Against Speakers / Impunity December 19, 2019 People of the Philippines v. Datu Andal “Unsay” Ampatuan Jr. Philippines Violence Violence Against Speakers / Impunity July 20, 2020 Shahid Akbar Abbasi v. Chief Commissioner Pakistan Violence Privacy, Data Protection and Retention July 21, 2021 Google Inc. v. B.R. Italy Google, Honor and Reputation, Internet Service Providers, Privacy, Right to be forgotten Content Regulation / Censorship January 20, 2022 UEJF v. Twitter France Access to Information Law, Content Moderation, Social Media, Twitter Privacy, Data Protection and Retention June 4, 2019 S.G. v. Unione Sarda S.P.A. Italy Honor and Reputation, Privacy, Right to be forgotten 11 May Protecting the Press: International Standards & Judicial Trends in Cases of Violence Against Journalists See All Events Special Collection: Freedom of Expression Case Law Digital Teaching Portal: Teaching Freedom of Expression without Frontiers Updates Content Regulation / Censorship, Digital Rights, National Security, Political Expression, Press Freedom May 09, 2022 EU silences Russian state media: a step in the wrong direction Violence Against Speakers / Impunity May 03, 2022 News that’s fit to print Access to Public Information, Artistic Expression, Content Regulation / Censorship, Defamation / Reputation, Hate Speech, National Security, Political Expression, Violence Against Speakers / Impunity May 03, 2022 Freedom of Expression, the Media and Journalists – Case-law of the European Court of Human Rights – 7th edition Content Regulation / Censorship, Digital Rights April 28, 2022 Thoughts for the DSA: Challenges, Ideas and the Way Forward through International Human Rights Law Go to updates Tweets Tweets by @ColumbiaGFoE @ColumbiaGFoE © 2022 Columbia University | Statement on Disability About Law & Standards Publications Content Use Privacy Notice Updates Contact Credits Events Prizes Global Freedom of Expression Columbia University 91 Claremont Ave, Suite 523 New York, NY 10027 1-212-854-6785 1-212-854-6785 globalfreespeech@columbia.edu ColumbiaGFoE Search Search About Case Law Law & Standards Publications Updates @globalfeandi About Back Mission People Experts Contact