Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Four Ways You Can Help Others During the Pandemic Paris Four Ways You Can Help Others During the Pandemic Want to help others during the pandemic but don't know how? Here are four charities you can donate to to support others during this crisis. By Sinead McCausland April 10, 2020 You may be feeling helpless during these unprecedented times, but there are ways you can help from the comfort (or, now, discomfort) of your own sofa. Below we have compiled a list of four US and French charities you can donate to and support. In an effort to align the charities with our programming, these charities provide support to the most vulnerable women and to women’s hospitals, to the essential workers on the frontline, and to doctors supporting refugees. 1. Médecins sans frontiers In the autumn of 2018 and summer of 2019, Craig Spencer visited us to give two talks on his work protecting migrants and refugees across the world. Now, Spencer is fighting on the frontlines of the pandemic as an ER doctor in New York. Medecins sans frontiere are now on the frontline of both the refugee crisis and the pandemic. You can support them by donating here. In the US, you can also donate to the UNHCR as part of their Protect Refugees from Coronavirus fund. 2. La Maison des Femmes Our programming centres heavily on women’s rights, one of our most standout moments being when Ghada Hatem-Gantzer of La Maison des Femmes visited us as part of the CHCI Medical Humanities conference to speak about her women’s health clinic. You can now directly support La Maison des Femmes as they help the most vulnerable women during this crisis, and ensure women have access to abortion, at this link. 3. Protecting women against domestic violence Victims of domestic abuse and violence are particularly vulnerable during this time. In Texas, March saw a 35% increase in domestic abuse cases; Police in Seattle saw a 21% increase in domestic abuse reports. In France, domestic abuse reports have spiked by 30%. To help, in the US you can donate to the National Domestic Violence Hotline’s COVID-19 response. In France, you can donate here to the women’s centre, Fondation des femmes. And if you want to learn more about how COVID-19 affects women’s rights, Columbia Law School is hosting a virtual events series on advancing human rights during the pandemic. You can find out more here. 4. Supporting key workers You can support key workers on the frontline during this crisis. Feeding America, who deliver food to those living in poverty, have a coronavirus fund here. In Paris, Serve the City Paris are working tirelessly to ensure those most vulnerable in the city are getting the food they need, as well as ensuring their volunteers have all of the PPE necessary to fulfil their vital roles. Donate to their Paris strand here. You can find and donate to their other strands here. Read this article from Columbia News to see how Columbia students are mobilizing to help frontline health care workers and their community. Bonus: If you have recovered from COVID-19, you can donate your blood plasma to Columbia University as part of a clinical trial. Find out more here. If you work in the arts, you can find artist resources from Columbia's School of the Arts here. Columbia University Engineering School is encouraging its students and anyone with the resources to take part in their ventilator making challenge. If you'd like to take part, follow this link. And remember: the most helpful thing you can do is to stay at home and wash your hands. Tags Health and Medical Science COVID-19 News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close