Skip to main content Office of Global Engagement Menu Close About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News Give Now About About Our Units Upcoming Events Staff Directory Contact Us NC State Global Courtyard Initiatives Initiatives Global Learning for All International Education Month Global Engagement Exposition Global Film Series Funding Funding AC21 Special Project Fund Global Engagement Institute Global Project Supplement Fund Kelly Memorial Fund Internationalization Seed Grants Israel Visiting Scholar Program Nagoya University Research Seed Grants UGPN Research Collaboration Fund University of Adelaide Research Starter Grants Proposal Development Resources Faculty Faculty Academy of Excellence in Global Engagement Committees Funding Frequently Asked Questions Global Awards Partner Database Regional Teams Teaching International Students Global Partnerships Global Partnerships MOU Guidelines Partner Database Students Students Global Ambassadors Global Engagement Nights Global Engagement in Academic Research Global Student Resources & Admissions Sponsored Students Your Global University Work for Us – Student Employment Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Distinguished Global Alumni Award Giving News News Give Now News Alumni Awards Events Faculty Funding Giving Partnerships Staff Students News Menu Alumni Awards Events Faculty Funding Giving Partnerships Staff Students News May 23, 2022 Global Alumni Spotlight: From Student to Founder Tayseer Almattar, class of 2012, began his career at NC State University to complete his Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering. Little did he know that his experiences would lead him to build TforDesign, a design innovation brand. Both inside and outside the classroom, Tayseer says he was allowed the opportunity to “re-discover” himself. Engagement at… May 17, 2022 Senior Vice Provost for Global Engagement Stepping Down to Return to Faculty After 16 Years of Leadership Senior Vice Provost for Global Engagement Bailian Li will step down from his position and return to the faculty in the College of Natural Resources, effective August 15. “I want to sincerely thank Dr. Li for his outstanding commitment to NC State and the Office of Global Engagement,” said Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Warwick Arden.… May 3, 2022 NC State Rises In Global Impact Ranking NC State University is among the top 200 universities in the world for global sustainable impact, according to the Times Higher Education’s 2022 Impact Rankings that measure university contributions to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). NC State first participated in the Impact Rankings last year, finishing in the top 300 globally. This year’s rise to the… Apr 25, 2022 Jonathan Brewster Receives NC State’s Outstanding Extension Award The Office of Global Engagement is pleased to announce that Jonathan Brewster has received NC State’s Outstanding Extension Award. Jonathan has been the Director of the North Carolina Japan Center (“NCJC”) since 2018 and has made significant contributions to NC State’s Extension and Outreach mission. The NCJC serves as a resource to all NC citizens, universities, companies,… Apr 22, 2022 NC State Selected to Receive IIE American Passport Project Grant A successful grant application led by Kyle Keith (he/him), Assistant Director of the Study Abroad Office, and Andy DeRoin (they/them), Assistant Director of the GLBT Center, has been selected by the Institute of International Education (IIE) to receive an IIE American Passport Project grant that will enable up to 25 NC State students to obtain a… Posts navigation 1 2 … 94 Next Page Home Primrose Hall Raleigh, NC 27695 ncstateglobal@ncsu.edu Global Learning for All News Contact Us Study Abroad Office International Services Global Training Initative Intensive English Program NC Japan Center Global Health Passport Services NC State Prague Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.