Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home News Rio Center Stories: Talita Nascimento, Teachers College alumna Rio de Janeiro Rio Center Stories: Talita Nascimento, Teachers College alumna April 18, 2018 Talita Nascimento holds a Bachelor’s degree in Law from the University of São Paulo (USP) and a Master's degree in education from Teachers College, focusing on International Education and Development. Throughout her career, she has served in the investment bank investment bank BTG Pactual, in the Ministry of Education (MEC) and spent three months at the United Nations (UN) in a project focused on gender equality at the Youth Forum on the Status of Women. Currently, Talita is part of the Center for Excellence and Innovation in Educational Policies (CEIPE) of Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV), a great partner of Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro. Why did you decide to work with education? Education has transformed my life and my family’s. My father is from Mato Grosso do Sul, the son of a maid, and who at age 7 came to São Paulo in search of a better life. Typical history of the great majority of migrants in São Paulo. With much effort, he and my mother managed to pass on the value that education was our only way out. Unfortunately, in a country as unequal as Brazil, your future is directly associated with color, origin and social privileges. My brother and I held on to our education. We had some opportunities, such as scholarships and a wonderful mother who spent the little time she had available to check on our homework and was always very strict about our reading. When I entered the University, my world opened up completely. I have had access to a social, cultural and economic world that is totally distant from my reality. This new world transformed me, as a professional, and transformed the life of my family. I wanted, therefore, to contribute so that, in a way, all Brazilians could access this world. I felt it was my duty, as a student at a public university, to contribute to the advancement of a better society. In fact, my choice to study law was directly related to my desire to contribute to a more just, equitable and less unequal country. In college, I participated in several extension projects that had this goal. In the first and second years, I did an internship at the Law Department, a popular office that served more than 6,000 low-income people a year. At the same time, I participated in the Project of Legal Advising University, that worked directly with the community of Paraisópolis in a project of popular education and land regularization. Later, I got involved in the student movement and in the lead of the Academic Center XI de Agosto, I participated in the creation of several social projects that exist until today. All this to say that my career change was always scheduled. Education guided my life and I knew that at some point I would return to the subject. I never dreamed of being a great lawyer in private offices. My choice to work in the private world, in fact, was due to two reasons. The first of pragmatic order: make money to help my family to buy a house of their own. The second, professional: I wanted to learn the methods, organization, deadlines and goals that are so familiar to the private world. In short, I wanted to learn all the tools that could help me in implementing projects in the world of public education. How was your experience at Teachers College? My experience at TC couldn’t have been better, both from a personal and professional point of view. There, I discovered myself as an educator and researcher. I had the opportunity to take classes with amazing teachers, such as Mary Mendenhall - my mentor -, Felisa Tibbits, Henry Levin, among others. I took the time to focus on tools that were lacking from my Bachelor’s degree, such as statistics and economics. But I ended up really falling in love with pedagogy, especially in the implementation of educational practices in areas of violence. I had the opportunity to write an article in partnership with two colleagues - who later became my best friends - about student movements in Colombia and in Brazil. In addition, I worked as a consultant to the European Wergeland Center, which aimed to develop the curricula of citizenship and democracy of the government of Ukraine. Finally, I was a research assistant in a comparative study of the results of PISA and TIMMS 2015. All this in just 1 year! It was an intense year, full of learning, with many Brazilian and foreign friends who made this year even better! How impactful was this experience to your career? It impacted on everything! In addition to having formed a better professional, the TC experience impacted my network of contacts. Because of Teachers College and my scholarship at Estudar Foundation, I met Igor Lima, who introduced me to Mira Educação, a social business focused on education, where I worked in 2017. Later, Teca Pontual - whom I had known because of the Lemann Fellows network - invited me to work at CEIPE. Did you have a professor who inspired you there? Several professors inspired me at TC - it's amazing how all professors are passionate about what they do! But my mentor, Mary Mendenhall, was the professor who most inspired me at TC. I took two classes with her: Issues and Institutions of International Education and Qualitative Research. In both courses, I was able to learn a great deal about pedagogy, research methods, education, comparative policies, but what caught my attention most was education in conflict areas. I ended up choosing to write my thesis on this subject, but in the Brazilian context: "Teaching in the context of protracted urban violence: A study of teacher practices in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil." What struck you most while studying at Teachers College? What struck me most was the fact that all professors promote and encourage a safe and respectful space for debate and critical thinking. There was not a right side and a wrong side, everything was debated in depth, from a variety of perspectives, based on papers from academics from different angles. Debate, political discussion (included), and critical thinking were highly valued. What kind of partnership would you like to do with Columbia Global Centers | Rio de Janeiro? I would like the Rio Center to partner with Brazilian educational institutions to encourage more research on Brazil, especially field research in the area of education. I think there is a very fertile ground to be explored in this area and that the Rio Center can play a very active role! Tags Rio Stories Rio Stories Education Rio Stories Government and Society Rio Stories Alumni Rio Stories Partners CGC Stories: Alum News May 26, 2022 Book Talk: A Slave Between Empires May 25, 2022 Alumni Spotlight: Gonzalo Mena May 24, 2022 Paris Center Stories: Translating Theater and Acting in Paris, Summer 2022 May 18, 2022 Book Talk: Your Sons Are at Your Service May 18, 2022 Academics from Chilean University UAI Visit Columbia to Strengthen Relationship with SEAS Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close