Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Global Centers Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Amman Beijing Istanbul Mumbai Nairobi Paris Rio Santiago Tunis About Team Programs Columbia University Scholarship for Displaced Students Committee on Forced Migration Global Themes Arts and Humanities Business and Entrepreneurship Health and Medicine International and Public Affairs Science, Engineering, and Environment News & Events Global Centers Stories News Media Library The Columbia Commitment Support Our Work Contact Us Jobs Join Our Newsletters Who We Are About the Amman Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Amman Amman Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Fellowship Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture Arts and Cultural Expression Entrepreneurship and Youth Geopolitics Climate and Public Health Forced Migration Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Beijing Center Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Beijing Meeting Rooms and Workspace China Travel Advisory Beijing Center Stories  Columbia and China in History What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement Jobs & Internships for Students & Alumni Initiatives for Students and Alumni What We Work On Arts, Culture & History Business, Innovation & Entrepreneurship Engineering & Applied Science Environment & Sustainability Education Medicine & Public Health Events News Media Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Privacy Who We Are About the Istanbul Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Istanbul Istanbul Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Architecture and Arts Art History and Archeology Historical Dialogue and Reconciliation Media and Journalism Public Health Sustainable Cities Women and Gender Studies Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Podcasts Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Mumbai Center Columbia in India Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board What We Do Thematic Areas Education, Culture & Knowledge Environmental Sustainability Health & Medicine Business & Economic Opportunity Events Publications Academic Resources Digital Media News, Reports & Stories Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Site Index Who We Are What We Do What We Work On Events News Media Connect With Us Who We Are What We Do Events Thematic Areas Digital Archives News Student Lounge Connect With Us Who We Are About the Rio Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Visiting Rio Rio Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Engagement What We Work On Applied Sciences Creative Arts and Cultural Studies Entrepreneurship and Business Global Health Government and Society Sustainability and Environment Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Newsletters Press Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Jobs and Internships Who We Are About the Santiago Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Key Partners Santiago Center Stories What We Do Education Programs Research Projects Public Events Alumni Engagement Santiago Center’s 2021 Highlights What We Work On Climate Change, Energy & Environment Culture and Arts Journalism Public Policy Corporate Governance Events News Media Videos Photos Publications Press Newsletters Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Who We Are About the Tunis Center Director Profile Team Faculty Advisory Committee Advisory Board Visiting Tunis What We Do Research Projects Public Engagement Capstone Workshops Education What We Work On Education Programs TC-Tunisia Foreign Language Teacher Education Project Virtual Global Internships Entrepreneurship and Business Public Health Human Rights Violations and Mortality Amongst Migrants Logical Reasoning in Human Genetics Events News Annual Reports Connect With Us Contact Us Support Our Work Applying to Columbia Columbia Global Centers You are here: Home Art Exhibition and Public Talk with Mr. Jian Wang, Ms. Jin Li, and Abigale Wang Events Past Event Art Exhibition and Public Talk with Mr. Jian Wang, Ms. Jin Li, and Abigale Wang Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo January 13, 2018 1:30 PM - 5:00 PM Columbia Global Centers | Beijing On January 13, Columbia Global Centers | Beijing will hold an art exhibition for Mr. Jian Wang, Ms. Jin Li, and Abigale Wang, showcasing some of their signature oil paintings. As a part of Columbia Student Engagement project, Abigale Wang, an undergraduate student from Columbia University's Columbia College, will be invited to serve as the curator for this exhibition. There will also be a public lecture during the exhibition. Three artists will introduce their art pieces and will also speak about the techniques of oil painting and pastel painting, the capture of moments and actions from a female painter's perspective, and the heritage and integration of different culture in paintings. There will be a Q&A session in the end, providing opportunities for the audience to ask questions and engage with the artists. Speakers Jian Wang is the member of Beijing Artists Association, Portrait Society of America, and Concrete China and a fellow at Chinese Painting Research Institute of Art Development Center of Chinese Painting, Ministry of Culture, P.R. China. According to Yidong Wang, Professor of China Central Academy of Fine Arts, "Mr. Wang is a quiet and calm person. His works create a dramatic atmosphere, owing to to his study experience in the Central Academy of Drama. In this time of individuality, his painting is his voice, trying to find the eternity." Jin Li is the member of China Female Artists Association. Ms. Li graduated from the Central Academy of Drama in 1988, majoring in theatre design. She was invited to attend a wide range of exhibitions in Milan, Paris, Beijing, and Hong Kong, and has won many awards in national exhibitions. Abigale Wang is an undergraduate student at Columbia University's Columbia College. In 2016, she was the ambassador of New York Panda Program and was awarded the "Outstanding Young Artist Award" by the NY Chinese Cultural Foundation. Her papercut Amalgamation was published in the People's Daily Overseas Edition, and her oil painting Support was published in the Jiefang Daily and the Economic Daily. Her painting Runner Up won the second place in the City Weekend Art & Writing Competition. When she was in high school, she made illustrations for Duha's hat, a story book for young children. She also went to ancient villages in Yunnan province to learn about Dongba culture and created a series of works of cultural integration. In 2017, she hosted the Masters Classic Gala Concert at New York's Merkin Concert Hall in Chinese, English, and Italian. Agenda 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. Registration 2:30 p.m. - 3:30 p.m. Keynote Speeches 3:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Q&A 4:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Exhibition and Informal Discussion Upcoming Events Columbia Global CentersAmman / Beijing / Istanbul / Mumbai / Nairobi / Paris / Rio / Santiago / Tunis Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close