Skip to main content Link to TU homepage ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us × Close Menu About Global Engagement About Global Engagement Staff Life Abroad: Student Stories Contact Us Go Abroad Go Abroad Explore Programs Global Scholars Program JumpstartTU Semester Abroad Programs Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs Getting Started Resources My Application While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest My Application FAQs International Student & Scholar Services International Student & Scholar Services About ISSS International Student Life Apply for Admission Information for New Students Glossary of Terms Employment, Volunteering & Internships Pre-Arrival Information Frequently Asked Questions Global TU Global TU Visiting Scholars International Partnerships Incoming Students Incoming Exchange Students Courses Orientation & Cultural Activities My Application My CGE Health Safety & Security Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Future Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans ISS PORTAL ABROAD PORTAL Meet With Us Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Global Engagement > Education Abroad > Photo Contest Photo Contest EDUCATION ABROAD Getting Started Semester Abroad Programs JumpstartTU Summer Abroad Programs Faculty-Led Programs While You Are Abroad Returning Students Parents & Families Health & Safety Health Considerations Safety Considerations Scholarships & Finances World Perspectives Photo Contest FAQs The Center for Global Engagement knows you have amazing stories to share and a lot to say about your time abroad. A picture is worth a thousand words, right? Think back on all the amazing moments you captured, the stories your pictures can tell, and what you want the world to see from your study abroad experience. Submit to the Study Abroad Photo Contest! The top two winners in each category receive cash prizes and will also have their photos utilized in CGE marketing. Submit your photos here! Timeline Contest opens in early March Submission deadline is March 31st Winners announced in April Categories and Eligibility Cities, Landscapes, and Skylines – Photos of fascinating places, new things you discovered, and scenic views of city, sky, and nature! Show us the places you explored, from cathedrals to beaches to scenic overlooks, and the sunsets you never want to forget. These photos can include people. Food Abroad – Photos of all the delicious food you got to eat while you were abroad. Whether it’s a home-cooked meal from your host family or the craziest street food you’ve ever tried, we want to see the incredible treats you enjoyed. People may also be in the photo as long as food is pictured as well. My Global Classroom – Studying abroad means learning not only within the walls of the classroom, but from the city you get to immerse yourself in. This category can include anything that fascinated you, changed your perspective, or just inspired you. Whether it’s a portrait of your host mom and her pet, a colorful photo of a village festival, or a shot of you and your classmates doing a group project in the city streets, tell us a human story of your host country in images. Both photos that you took of others and photos that you are in are accepted. Welcome to the USA – Photos taken by international/exchange students studying at TU. What have you discovered? What have been your adventures? Use your imagination and share what you have seen or experienced here in the U.S.! This category is for international/exchange students studying at the University of Tulsa only. Rules Deadline to submit photos is March 31st, 2020. Late entries will not be accepted. All entries must be original photographs taken by entrant or featuring the entrant while participating in an approved CGE study abroad program or exchange, including JumpstartTU and Faculty Led trips; or enrolled at TU (for international/exchange students). Photos must be amateur work (no professional photos will be accepted). Photos may be color or black and white. A maximum of 6 photos may be submitted per entrant total. A student may only win 1 prize per category per year. Photos that were submitted in previous years but did NOT win any prizes may be submitted again. Any photos that have won in previous years are NOT allowed to be submitted again. The University of Tulsa retains the right not to consider or display photos that do not meet the submission rules and guidelines or that are deemed inappropriate. Current CGE student employees are not allowed to enter the photo contest By submitting photos to the contest, you are giving authorization to TU/CGE to use your photos for marketing and promotion purposes. Images will be displayed on websites, Social Media and printed materials. **Note: Students currently employed by the Center for Global Engagement are not eligible to enter the contest.** View full Rules & Regulations. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Our Mission Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT