Skip to main content Toggle navigation Main navigation Home About Us Resources News Events Contact Us Highlights from the Inaugural Symposium WELCOME TO GLYCOSCIENCE AT HARVARD Welcome to the newly formed HMS Center for Glycoscience! The Co-Directors are Dr. Richard D. Cummings and Dr. Robert Sackstein. Dr. Cummings was recruited to the Department of Surgery at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) from Emory University School of Medicine, where he was Chair of the Department of Biochemistry. Dr. Cummings is the Director of the National Center for Functional Glycomics (NCFG) and is the Chair of the Consortium for Functional Glycomics, a worldwide group of over 600 principal investigators exploring glycoconjugate functions. He is an expert in the field of Glycosciences and Glycomics, with a main focus on biological interactions with glycans. Dr. Sackstein is an a basic scientist and clinician whose work has been instrumental in understanding the molecular mechanisms of carbohydrates in human biology and disease, and in particular, in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). His work is focused on utilizing structural information for the rational design of drugs that disrupt key adhesion molecules in tumor cell growth and metastasis, and of agents/technologies that may improve immune effector cell infiltration of tumor tissue. News Dr. Richard D. Cummings (Director of the NCFG and the HMS Center for Glycoscience) receives 2019 IGO Award Dr. Richard D. Cummings receives the 2019 IGO Award from the International Glycoconjugate Organization for his exceptional contributions to the field of glycobiology. To read more visit: http://www.glyco25.org/awards/ Instructor positions available in Glycobiology The Department of Surgery at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) is currently seeking applications for a faculty position at the level of Instructor, Staff Scientist I. Highlights from the HMS Center for Glycoscience Inaugural Symposium Events Dr. John Magnani presents "Novel Mechanisms in Glycobiology are New Sources of Therapeutics Drugs now in Clinical Trials in Cancer and Inflammatory Disorders" Center for Life Science Building (Blackfan Circle), rooms 11081A & B, Boston Start: Tuesday, July 23, 2019 - 09:00 am End: Tuesday, July 23, 2019 - 10:00 am Harvard Medical School Center for Glycoscience Inaugural Symposium Joseph B. Martin Conference Center | Harvard Medical School (HMS) Start: Wednesday, October 24, 2018 - 07:00 am End: Wednesday, October 24, 2018 - 05:00 pm (All day) Society For Glycobiology 2018 Annual Meeting Hilton New Orleasn Riverside Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA Start: Monday, November 5, 2018 - 09:00 am End: Thursday, November 8, 2018 - 05:00 pm Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College