Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Studies Office of Graduate Military Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Staff Members Why KU? Academics Select to follow link Graduate Admission Degrees for CGSC Officers Foreign Area Officer (FAO) MA Programs Kansas Intelligence Community Center for Academic Excellence (ICCAE) KU Language Training Center KU Project Global Officer (Project GO) Research Select to follow link Department of Defense (DoD) Funding Find KU Faculty with DoD Grant Experience Resources Select to follow link KU Student Veterans of America VA Benefits, Tuition Assistance & Scholarships Veterans Upward Bound Alumni & Friends Select to follow link KU Army ROTC KU Naval ROTC KU Air Force & Space Force ROTC KU Veterans Alumni Network KU Alumni Association Contact Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Studies Office of Graduate Military Programs Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search The University of Kansas Welcome to the Office of Graduate Military Programs (GMP) ----- Collaborating across KU's Center for Research, Alumni Association and Endowment to establish and develop education programming, research and service support to the US Armed Forces, Intelligence Community and Veterans while advancing the stature and impact of the University within the US National Security Enterprise. Who we are... Awards & Recognition 1 of 8 Department of Defense Language Training Center universities 1 of 30 Intelligence Community Center for Academic Excellence universities 1 of 25 Project Global Officer universities Education Programming We serve as the entry point for Service universities (Army University, Marine Corps University, Air University, and Naval Education and Training Command), Geographic Combatant Commands (Academic Alliance partnerships) and the US Intelligence Community to develop graduate and undergraduate degree programs that align with subordinate schools. Fort Leavenworth Degree Programs Fort Leavenworth Degree Programs Department of Defense Language Training Center Department of Defense Language Training Center Kansas Intelligence Center for Academic Excellence (ICCAE) Kansas Intelligence Center for Academic Excellence (ICCAE) Research We collaborate with the KU Center for Research and the defense industry in research development, which matches KU researchers to national security research interests and opportunities. Department of Defense Research Opportunities Current research funding and engagement opportunities from the U.S. Department of Defense. DOD Grants Service We collaborate with the KU Alumni Association, KU Endowment, and the Lt. Gen. William K. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center to grow the military-affiliated student enrollment through dedicated programming and scholarships. Lt. Gen. William K. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center Lt. Gen. William K. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center Veteran & Family Scholarships Veteran & Family Scholarships KU Veterans Alumni Network KU Veterans Alumni Network Make a Gift Contribution... KU has a host of resources available to make the transition to civilian and college life as smooth as possible for our country's honored veterans and their family members. Your gift to support them will help KU continue to offer the best experience possible for those who served our country. Office of Graduate Military Programs Office of Graduate Military Programs Wounded Warrior & Student Veteran Scholarships Wounded Warrior & Student Veteran Scholarships Lt. Gen. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center Lt. Gen. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center Follow us on Social Media Facebook Contact The University of Kansas Office of Graduate Military Programs Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Room 222 Lawrence, KS 66045 Email: gmjdenning@ku.edu Tel: 785-864-1684 Fax: 785-864-7209 Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd., Room 222 Lawrence, KS 66045-7575 gmjdenning@ku.edu 785-864-1684 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.