Frequently Asked Questions Submit About Our Team Our Participants & Alumni Commitment to Diversity Contact Us The Experience The HLS Executive Education Advantage Planning Your Visit Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Programs Online Programs Leadership Programs Master Classes Custom Programs Faculty Research Case Development Initiative Research on the Legal Profession Articles and White Papers Go About Our Team Our Participants & Alumni Commitment to Diversity Contact Us The Experience The HLS Executive Education Advantage Planning Your Visit Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Programs Online Programs Leadership Programs Master Classes Custom Programs Faculty Research Case Development Initiative Research on the Legal Profession Articles and White Papers Frequently Asked Questions Explore multiple perspectives on M&A LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS: STRUCTURING AND LEADING DEALS Gain the tools to succeed in your increasingly complex in-house role. Learn More about Leadership in Corporate Counsel Advance your personal, team, and client leadership at the Accelerated Leadership Program LEARN ABOUT OUR PROGRAM FOR NEW and MID-STAGE PARTNERS Introducing International Finance: Policy, Regulation, and Transactions, an online program with Professor Hal. S. Scott. Learn more and apply today. PROGRAMS View All Mergers and Acquisitions: Structuring and Leading Deals Leadership in Corporate Counsel Accelerated Leadership Program International Finance: Policy, Regulation, and Transactions MORE PROGRAMS Mergers and Acquisitions: Structuring and Leading Deals PROGRAM DATES June 13-17, 2022 Mergers and Acquisitions: Structuring and Leading Deals provides participants with an overview of the M&A process through multiple lenses including strategic, financial, legal, and operational. READ MORE MORE PROGRAMS Leadership in Corporate Counsel PROGRAM DATES June 7-10, 2022 The Leadership in Corporate Counsel program offers in-house leaders insights into the challenges they face and the frameworks, concepts, and tools they need to succeed in their increasingly complicated roles. READ MORE MORE PROGRAMS Accelerated Leadership Program PROGRAM DATES October 17-20, 2022 The Accelerated Leadership Program is designed to provide new to mid-level partners with the knowledge and skills they need to successfully advance to the next level of leadership. READ MORE MORE PROGRAMS International Finance: Policy, Regulation, and Transactions PROGRAM DATES Online, self-paced International Finance: Policy, Regulation, and Transactions will give participants a framework for thinking about the policy issues that will shape the financial system of the 21st century. This online, self-paced program is presented in a series of video lectures with Professor Hal. S. Scott. READ MORE MORE PROGRAMS FEATURED View All COVID-19 Health and Safety Protocols Taking Collaboration to the Next Level Computer Science for Lawyers - Online Now! Custom Online Leadership Development for Your Organization Which program is right for me? COVID-19 Health and Safety Protocols As we welcome participants back to the Harvard Law School campus, we want to assure you that the health, safety, and well-being of our participants and community remains our top priority. Read the latest details you need in preparing to come to campus and staying on campus. Read current guidelines Taking Collaboration to the Next Level As AlvaradoSmith’s Marketing and Business Development Director, Mayra Jimenez leans on the power of collaboration to enhance the firm’s visibility and reputation and analyze business development opportunities. Through the Smart Collaboration Master Class, Mayra developed an action plan for embarking on several new initiatives, applying tools and resources she gained. Read the Alumni Story Computer Science for Lawyers - Online Now! With rolling admission, you can apply anytime to “Computer Science for Lawyers”! This asynchronous, self-paced course will equip you with a richer appreciation of the legal ramifications of clients’ technological decisions and policies. Topics include programming languages, algorithms, cybersecurity, cloud computing, database design, and challenges at the intersection of law and technology. GET STARTED TODAY Custom Online Leadership Development for Your Organization Harvard Law School Executive Education provides expertise in a wide array of areas important to the development and growth of organizations. Partner with us to develop a customized online learning solution designed to meet your organization’s needs, goals, and objectives. LEARN MORE Which program is right for me? Do you want to learn more about our program offerings and discover the program for you? Learn about our programs, alumni, faculty, teaching methods, and more in our new Program Guide. Take a look! DOWNLOAD Stay up to date with HLS Executive Education Sign up for e-mail reminders and updates on Executive Education programs and related news and events. Request Information HLS Executive Education Harvard Law School Executive Education Pound Hall, 2nd Floor 1563 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Phone 617-496-4487 Email [email protected] © 2022 Harvard Law School Executive Education | Privacy Policy Website design by Jackrabbit