wordmark logo scroll-arrow close arrow search twitter facebook linkedin exclamation youtube-play instagram wordpress snapchat-ghost Menu Search Search Office of the President Meet the President Communications Mission & Initiatives Leadership Searches Contact Home Mission & Initiatives Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Plan The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Steering Committee was formed by MSU President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., M.D., in December 2019 and was charged with creating a strategic framework centered on diversity, equity and inclusion. Comprised of 26 MSU experts, the committee conducted 53 listening sessions with more than 400 participants from stakeholder groups across the university. The committee also reviewed and benchmarked 16 DEI plans from the Association of the American Universities and Big 10 institutions. The recommendations were incorporated into the work of MSU’s Strategic Plan; the efforts of MSU’s new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer, Jabbar R. Bennett, Ph.D.; and the strategic planning divisions of all MSU academic and administrative units. Read more Video: DEI Plan Webcast MSU President Samuel L. Stanley, Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer Jabbar Bennett, and Co-Chairs Wanda Lipscomb and Luis Alonzo Garcia discuss the DEI Strategic Plan and answer questions from the MSU community. The Plan A copy of the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion report and plan can be found here The DEI Plan The committee Learn more about the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Steering Committee The Committee News See more coverage of the DEI Plan. Read More DEI Plan Task Force on Racial Equity About DEI Steering Committee Committee Charge and Process Steering Committee Members Communications DEI Working Definitions DEI Report and Plan Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube (517) 355-6560 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University