Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions Campus Visit Options Meet our Tour Guides Meet your tour guides Abie K. Hometown Tulsa, OK Major: Nutritional Sciences: Pre-Med Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is the architecture building because it's so unique. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because it's like being part of a big family! Organizations & activities: Greek Life Human Sciences Student Council Anna N. Hometown Thousand Oaks, CA Major: Sports Management Favorite spot on campus: A sunny day at O'brate stadium. It's a great place to see the passion cowboys fans have for our sports, and when you walk inside it feels like you are with your family. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: The community we have here on campus. No matter who you are or where you are from, there is a group of people for you. We are unified through our love for OSU, and America's Brightest Orange. Organizations & activities: Student Union Activities Board The Honors College Aubrey L. Hometown Welch, OK Major: Agricultural Communications Favorite spot on campus: Edmon Low Library - it's a great place to be productive! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love how close the cowboy family is and how every professor really and truly wants you to succeed! Plus the beautiful campus doesn't hurt at all... Organizations & activities: Agricultural Communications of Tomorrow Honors College The O'Colly Ben B. Hometown Tulsa, OK Major: Industrial Engineering Favorite spot on campus: The Colvin! Who doesn't like sports? I sure do! The Colvin is a great spot for sporty guy like me to participate in all kinds of sporting activities. They have all kinds of sports for whatever sport you are looking for! Yay sports! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love knowing I have the honor to go to the same school as Brandon Weeden and Cade Cunningham. Truly an honor to follow in their footsteps. Organizations & activities: CEAT Scholars Brooke O. Hometown Frederick, OK Major: Physiology/Pre-Dental Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is Library Lawn! I love seeing a sea of students studying, socializing, and just enjoying our beautiful campus! I also love bringing my dog and she loves playing fetch and making friends on the lawn! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because there is nothing like the Cowboy family. Our family is welcoming, hospitable, and encouraging to all. No matter where you go on campus, you will always find smiling faces and warm, friendly people. Organizations & activities: American Student Dental Association Chi Omega Mortar Board Christian Medical and Dental Association Investors Club Caitlin B. Hometown Burkburnett, TX Major: Global Studies Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is the Student Union! I love to get lunch or coffee and hangout with friends. The Union is the heart of campus and I love going to different events and seeing my friends there everyday! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU cowboy because I get to be apart of a community that encourages and supports each other throughout college and as we go onto to bigger and better things! The people at OSU are what make being a cowboy so special. Organizations & activities: McKnight Leadership Scholars Honors College Alpha Phi Omega American Sign Language Club Caleb B. Hometown Sand Springs, OK Major: Nutritional Sciences: Allied Health Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is the sun room in the Noble Research Center. It's a great place to study and relax while getting a great view of the campus in a room made of all windows! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because I have been treated as a family member here, not just another number. I have been sought after by faculty. I have been given the utmost respect and diligence from the faculty and the Stillwater community. I LOVE being an OSU Cowboy because I can confidently call this university my home! Organizations & activities: Baptist Collegiate Ministries Student Government Association: Speakers Board Cameron Hometown: Luverne, AL Major: Food Science: Science and Animal Science: Pre-Vet Favorite spot on campus: Without a doubt, my favorite spot at OSU would be Library Lawn! No matter where you stand, you are surrounded with stunning views of campus. Along with killer views, library lawn is constantly busy and full of activity during all times of the year! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an Oklahoma State Cowboy each and every day because of the Cowboy Family. Despite being nearly 1,000 miles away from home, I have never felt out of place because of the loyal and true faculty and students. At OSU, everyone wants students to grow and leave Stillwater with so much more than just a degree. I am challenged each and everyday by my peers and I am so thankful I chose to attend America's Greatest University! Organizations & activities: Chi Omega McKnight Scholars The Honors College College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Ambassador Cassi R. Hometown: Forgan, OK Major: Applied Sociology with an Emphasis in Law, Crime, and Social Justice Favorite spot on campus: The spiral staircase outside the Union! It’s a fantastic place to eat and do homework but watch how busy the North Plaza gets. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: The community at OSU has really helped me grow as a person. Every day I get to meet someone new and have a completely different experience. The community at OSU is what makes me comfortable enough to do that. Organizations & activities: Community Mentor O’Colly Radio Show Host Camp Cowboy Counselor 1 is 2 many member Sociology Club Chandler Hometown: Bartlesville, Oklahoma Major: Business Management & Interior Design Favorite spot on campus: Theta Pond is one of my favorite spots on campus, because it's a kind of place that you won't find at any other university. It's a great place to study on those warm days and relax when you're not studying. It's also a showcase of both the history of Oklahoma State and the beauty our campus has to offer. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I think Oklahoma State University is truly one of the easiest places to fall in love with. It's pretty much one big family who continues to embrace their traditions from a day to day basis. Being an OSU Cowboy opens doors that you would never expect, there are some many great opportunities and resources that are available to students to help them succeed. The campus is definitely one for students who seek an overall amazing experience while at college. The school pride is not just within the borders of campus but expands to the city of Stillwater and around the world. Organizations & activities: Greek Life Corinne K. Hometown Northville, MI Major: Nonprofit Management Favorite spot on campus: Library Lawn is definitely one of my favorite spots on campus. It’s a great place to study and hang out with friends. It is also the perfect place to watch the sun set almost every evening! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being a Cowboy because everyone here is loyal and true! You have a friend in every student, a supporter in every faculty member, and a cheerleader in every member of the Stillwater community. Being a Cowboy comes with a support system unlike any other. Organizations & activities: Cowboy Marching Band The Honors College Kappa Alpha Theta Kappa Kappa Psi OSU Flying Aggies Eden Hometown: Little Rock, AR Major: Marketing/ Advertising Favorite spot on campus: You can find me on the couches on the second floor in the student union 99% of the time. The food is downstairs & it’s quiet enough to let you study but loud enough to still be social. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: Whatever you are interested in- there are 10+ people waiting to help you thrive in those areas. Organizations & activities: OSU leadership program Philanthropy assistant in Chi Omega Ellie F. Hometown Dalhart, TX Major: Dual Major Agribusiness and Agricultural Communications Favorite spot on campus: Library Lawn is my favorite spot on campus because I could study there all day with a picnic blanket and the beautiful view of Edmon Low! I can easily grab a snack or a coffee at the Student Union and I always bump into people I know! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because I get to be a member of the cowboy family! As an out-of-state student I am amazed at the friends I have made and how easy it was to get involved in the OSU community in such a brief amount of time. Every student and staff member makes sure you feel like Oklahoma State is your home! Organizations & activities: The McKnight Scholars Leadership Program Greek Life Honors College Student Network of the Alumni Association Gemma S. Hometown: Coppell, TX Major: Political Science and Spanish Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is the political science department office, located in the Social Sciences and Humanities building. This spot is home to me as I take part in political science research with some of my professors, and love the environment the office constantly has with other political science students and faculty present! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because of the rich tradition the Cowboy family has. The moment you step on campus, you feel instantly surrounded with love and acceptance. It is truly a place for anyone to succeed and find their home! Organizations & activities: CAS Student Council  CAS Ambassadors  Honors College Student Association  OSU Honors College  Phi Alpha Delta (Pre Law club)  OSU Student Alumni Association  Undergraduate political science research assistant  OSU Mentor Collective Peer Mentor Gracie F. Hometown: Wellington, KS Major: Civil Engineering Favorite spot on campus: Library Lawn. I love people watching and all the activities that take place there. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because I know I am forever apart of the Cowboy family and I have met lifetime friends here. Organizations & activities: CEAT Student Council American Society of Civil Engineers Community Mentor Izzy M. Hometown Piedmont, OK Major: Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Favorite spot on campus: The library because I spend most of my time there and I feel focused and productive. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: Because I get to wake up every day at the college that was meant for me and feel like I belong. Organizations & activities: The Cowboy Marching Band Research Kallie Q. Hometown Wichita Falls, TX Major: Political Science and Philosophy, Pre-Law Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is definitely the Union. There are always a ton of fun events at the Union and a Chick-Fil-A- what more could you want? Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because I feel that I am pushed to succeed everyday. The university truly invests in its students, and I have never felt as if I am just another number. My professors are just an email away and always available to help their students. The friends I have made here are a great support system and always there for a laugh or trip to sonic. The cowboy family is very loyal and true, and I would not trade my time at OSU for the world!! Organizations & activities: Greek Life Oklahoma Intercollegiate Legislature- Vice Chair Freshman Research Scholar Order of Omega Honor Society Pi Sigma Alpha Honor Society Katie D. Hometown: Enid, OK Major: Psychology Favorite spot on campus: My favorite place on campus would be Theta Pond because it is a great place to unwind and put a hammock on. It gives you a little getaway from the stressful college life. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU cowboy because it allows me to meet so many different people while still getting a great education! Oklahoma State has never failed to make me feel right at home and has always given me so many opportunities to meet people! Organizations & activities: Running Club Kierstin P. Hometown Frisco, TX Major: Strategic Communications Favorite spot on campus: The library or Theta Pond! I love studying there. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU cowboy because i love the atmosphere and people that make OSU, OSU! I love how OSU is really like a family and you feel welcome the minute you step on campus! I am so lucky to go to a school like OSU! Organizations & activities: Honors College MOXIE Net Impact Madelyn O. Hometown Penryn, CA Major: Agribusiness & Agricultural Communications Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is Theta Pond. It is a great place to meet up with friends or sit down and study. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love the Cowboy Family. As a student we are supported in and out of the classroom. Organizations & activities: Block and Bridle Collegiate Cattlewomen Ag Communicators of Tomorrow Agriculture Future of America Meagan L Hometown Tulsa, OK Major: Elementary Education Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is Library Lawn (especially during Homecoming week & Veterans Day). To start off, I love Library Lawn because it is a friendly environment where students can go to relax and enjoy each other's company. It is gorgeous and I absolutely love walking through it on my way to class. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: Ever since I was younger, I have been a die-hard OSU fan. To me, OSU is special because of the people. The people are joyful, loving and welcoming to everyone. I love being an OSU Cowgirl because now I get to be one of the people I've grown up admiring. Organizations & activities: Kappa Kappa Iota (Education club) Kappa Delta Pi (Education club) Greek Life Rachel T. Hometown Spring, TX Major: Industrial Engineering Favorite spot on campus: The business building, I love the look of the building and I always get the most done there! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: OSU has become my home and where I have found my place. The people here are so kind and willing to help Organizations & activities: Spears Ambassadors Information Security Assurance Club Camp Cowboy Savanna Hometown: Hollister, CA Major: Agricultural Communications Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is Library Lawn. It is the best view of OSU and it’s so much fun to picnic with friends! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU cowboy because everyone here has each others back! The pride all the students, faculty, alumni and community have for OSU is insane! The cowboy family is one that’s like no other. Organizations & activities: Student Alumni Network Campus Programming Committee Co-Chair for Student Alumni Network Multicultural Leaders Program for Ferguson College of Ag Shelby S. Hometown: Le Grand, CA Major: Animal Science Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is Theta Pond because it is so pretty, I love to see the animals that live there, and it seems like I am always passing by a friend when I walk that bridge. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because of the people who make up the Cowboy Family. I truly have met my best friends in Stillwater and even though it may seem like a small town, it is the people you create the memories with that matter the most. I will always be thankful for my time as an OSU Cowboy and the ways it has changed me for the better. Organizations & activities: Greek Life Sydney W. Hometown: Stillwater, OK Major: Arts Administration with an emphasis in Theatre and a minor in Dance Favorite spot on campus: The costume shop in Gundersen. It’s always so exciting to see what is being created in there and what students are working on. It’s also so much fun to work on costumes and get to be so involved with the department. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU Cowboy because of the experiences I get. I have gotten to work with world class faculty, study in Italy, and attend master classes with professionals in my field. Organizations & activities: Zeta Tau Alpha Theatre Dance Community Talisa B. Hometown Broken Arrow, OK Major: Psychology Favorite spot on campus: My favorite spot on campus is the Human Sciences building. It is a great place to eat, hang out with friends and get a ton of studying done! Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being an OSU cowboy because of the community! Everyone here is so friendly and they want to help you grow during your time here at OSU! Organizations & activities: Greek Life Tara S. Hometown Littleton, CO Major: Industrial Engineering Favorite spot on campus: The Willard Library; it is much quieter than Edmon Low and all of my classes are at Willard so I don't have to walk that far to get where I need to go. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I have never met a more diverse and inclusive group of people. The Cowboy Family is something that you won't find at any other university and the atmosphere around campus is so welcoming. You are not a number here at OSU and there is a place for you no matter your interests. It is truly my home away from home. Organizations & activities: American Association of Airport Executives Flying Aggies Women in Aviation Swim Club Taylor Hometown: Kingwood, Texas Major: Aerospace Administration and Operations with a concentration on Professional Pilot Favorite spot on campus: I love the basement in Willard Hall because it is so quiet and a great place to study. Why I love being an OSU Cowboy: I love being a cowboy because of the cowboy family. Everyone is so friendly and welcoming which is reflected all across campus. Organizations & activities: Flying Aggies Oklahoma State Flight Team American Association of Airport Executives Campus Visit Options Daily tours Saturday tours Transfer tours OSU Up Close Scholars Day Admitted Student Day Junior Day Orange Fridays Inspire Orange Conference Group tours GEAR UP Meet our tour guides Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©