Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions Parents Parents We want you to find the college that's the best fit for your student. The following steps will help guide your family through the college selection process. If you have questions we can help you with, please check out our parent FAQs below, or contact our office at 405-744-5358. Step 1 | Do Research You’ve already taken the first step. Helping your student research universities is extremely important. Make sure your child is on OSU’s mailing list so he or she receives all of the information we send throughout the year. If you have specific questions regarding the OSU application and scholarship processes, you can call, text or email your child's admission counselor. About us OSU is home to more than 20,000 students and more than 450 student organizations, so there are plenty of options for things to do outside of the classroom. If there isn't an organization to fit your student, he or she can form a new one! Students can also become involved in student government or Greek life. Active students can also take advantage of the extensive intramural sports program, which features dozens of activities, from flag football and basketball to dominoes. Learn more about OSU Step 2 | Visit Campus Websites and brochures are great for learning about many different universities, but the only way to truly know if a university is the right fit is to visit. OSU offers tours Monday through Friday and on select Saturdays, and holds many special events on campus throughout the year. Sign up for one today. Step 3 | Take Official Tests OSU accepts official test scores from ACT and SAT, but does not accept the writing portion of either. When your student signs up for a national test, make sure that they list Oklahoma State University to make sure we receive the official score. Our ACT code is 3424, and our SAT code is 6546. Trying to improve test scores? Don't wait to apply! We continue to update student records throughout the year, so send any updated test scores as you receive them and we will update your student's record. All updated scores must be submitted by July 1 for fall or summer-entering students, and Oct. 15 for spring-entering students. Step 4 | Apply Early for Scholarship Opportunities We accept applications as soon as a student completes his or her junior year of high school. Encourage your student to complete their application before November 1 so that they receive scholarships and financial aid as early as possible. The priority scholarship deadline for students entering in the fall to be considered for all OSU scholarships is February 1, and for students entering in the spring is October 15. Learn more about available OSU scholarships. Application process Whether your child is a freshman, transfer or international student, applying to OSU can be done in just a few easy steps. Read through our application process to learn more about transcripts, test scores, transfer credits and other requirements. Check out all our important dates and deadlines to ensure your student is on track with their OSU application! Step 5 | Complete the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) The FAFSA application opens October 1 for the following academic year. We encourage your student to complete the application and send the required documents as early as possible. OSU’s FAFSA code is 003170. Some scholarships and financial aid require the completion of the FAFSA in order for you to be considered. Step 6 | Have your student check their OSU email Make sure that once your student is accepted to OSU, they check their OSU email account at least once a week. OSU communicates many important messages about important deadlines, choosing housing, and accepting scholarships and financial aid only through this email account. Step 7 | Paying your enrollment deposit Upon admission to OSU, all freshmen starting in the summer and fall are required to submit a $300 enrollment deposit. This deposit will allow your student to register for orientation and enrollment and apply for housing. You can pay the deposit starting Dec. 1. Room selection will be based on date and time of enrollment deposit. Students who are eligible for a Pell Grant as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid will have their enrollment deposit deferred. If your student decides to cancel their admission to OSU by May 1 and you have paid the enrollment deposit, you will receive a refund of $250. The remaining $50 of the deposit is nonrefundable. Step 8 | Complete housing application OSU offers three styles of housing: suites, apartments and community-style. There are also several Living Learning Programs, where you live alongside others who share common interests or fields of study. The application for housing opens Feb. 1. You'll also choose your meal plan at this time. You must apply separately to the Living Learning Program(s) of your choice through your application portal. Step 9 | Register for orientation and enrollment All new students are required to attend an orientation session the summer before they begin classes at OSU. During this session, your student will meet with an academic adviser, enroll in classes and learn about the many resources available to students on campus. You are welcome to attend the one- or two-day orientation with your student and participate in parent sessions. Students may enroll in these sessions during the spring semester online or by calling the New Student Orientation office at (405) 744-3636. Orientation and enrollment registration opens February 1. Step 10 | Accept scholarships and financial aid May 1 is National College Decision Day and we encourage students to complete these steps as soon as possible. Some scholarships and financial aid may be canceled if they aren't accepted by May 1. Your child can accept awards here. Step 11 | Help Pack We know this might be the most difficult step of them all. It’s hard to believe your baby is all grown up and headed off to college. But rest assured, you are sending your student off to a great place. We offer a number of services to make sure they will be well-fed, taken care of, and mentored by our faculty and staff. YOU are also now part of the Cowboy family! Come and visit any time you like (but don’t tell your child we said so)! Frequently Asked Questions Does OSU offer in-state tuition to out-of-state students from certain states? No, but we do offer the Nonresident Achievement Scholarship, reserved only for out-of-state students. The scholarship is based off of ACT/SAT score and requires a 3.0 GPA. Students can qualify for this scholarship by filling out our application and meeting the scholarship's criteria. Are the residential halls and campus safe? OSU has a campus police agency of 31 sworn officers who are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In addition, our campus features emergency blue lights, which are directly connected to the police department and will notify authorities should any student in need activate the light. More information on campus safety Are there opportunities for students to work on campus? There are many jobs available on campus for students. These jobs can provide students assistance in paying educational costs, practical experience in their job field and increased involvement on campus. Our Career Services department can help students find the right fit for them. Can freshmen bring cars on campus? Yes, all students are allowed to bring cars to campus. Please note, each student must purchase a parking permit through OSU's Parking and Transit office to park on campus. What is the student population? Our undergraduate student population is just over 20,500 students. With graduate students included, OSU's population is 23,237. My child is trying to raise his/her ACT score. Should we wait to apply to get a better score? No, we always recommend application as early as possible. Although the ACT/SAT is a required component of application to OSU, we offer several options for admission that do not require test scores. We continue to update student records throughout the year, so send any updated test scores as you receive them and we will update your student's record. All updated scores must be submitted by July 1 for fall or summer-entering students, and Oct. 15 for spring-entering students. Where can my student go in case he/she needs help with his/her studies? OSU has many resources for students, including the OSU Writing Center and the Mathematics Learning Success Center. OSU also offers the Learning and Student Success Opportunity Center where students can go for tutoring or academic advice. Each academic college also has an academic services office available. What can my student do to get involved? OSU is home to more than 450 student organizations, so students have options. If there isn't an organization to fit your student, he or she can actually form a new one. Students can become involved in student government or Greek Life as well. Active students can also take advantage of the extensive intramural sports program, which features dozens of activities, from flag football to basketball to dominoes. What is the deadline for applying to the university and for scholarship opportunities? We consider applications until the beginning of the semester for which the student is applying. However, Nov. 1 is the Early Opportunity Scholarship Deadline for fall-entering students and we encourage students to complete their application before this date to receive their scholarships and/or financial aid as early as possible. Students must complete their application by the Feb. 1 Priority Scholarship Deadline to be guaranteed full scholarship consideration, and July 1 for final consideration. Spring-entering students should complete the application by Oct. 15 for full scholarship consideration and the Friday before the Spring semester begins for final consideration. Updated documentation for scholarships (including ACT/SAT scores and high school transcripts) is accepted through July 1 for fall and summer-entering students and Oct. 15 for spring-entering students. Check out all our important dates and deadlines to ensure you're on track. How will my child's concurrent work transfer to OSU? If a student has taken college courses while in high school, he or she should submit a transcript to our office. To ensure that these courses will transfer to OSU, the student should work with an adviser for the academic college in which he or she is interested, to ensure the concurrent coursework will fulfill OSU degree requirements. Do freshmen have to live on campus? In general, all freshmen must live in OSU housing. This includes transfer students under 21 years of age with less than 28 hours of college credit, concurrent hours do not count against the 28. Living on campus is a great opportunity for new students to become involved in the university. Studies show that living on campus can result in significantly higher grades and make for a better all-around collegiate experience. Students may choose from community-style living, suite-style or apartments. More Information on Residential Life When will my student meet his or her adviser and be able to enroll in classes? Students meet their advisers and enroll in classes during New Student Orientation sessions. Each incoming student must attend one New Student Orientation session or Transfer Enrollment Day. These sessions are offered throughout the summer. Students may enroll in these sessions during the spring semester online or by calling the New Student Orientation office at (405) 744-3636. Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions requirements Application steps Essays Essay questions Essay tips Creative supplement Leadership & involvement resume Tips for applying Important dates & deadlines Application fee Admitted students' next steps Credit by exam College credit transfer guides Transfers Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps College credit transfer guides The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events OSU Transfer Pass/No Pass International students Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Online degrees Concurrent Admissions requirements Application steps Readmission Admissions requirements Application steps Military leave of absence Non-Degree seekers Undocumented students High school counselors Submitting electronic transcripts OSU admissions publications Residency status Campus tours & events Daily tours Saturday tours Transfer tours OSU Up Close Scholars Day Admitted Student Day Junior Day Orange Fridays Inspire Orange Conference Group tours GEAR UP Meet our tour guides Videos from current students Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©