Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Next Steps Admitted Students Next Steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps College credit transfer guides The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events OSU Transfer Pass/No Pass Become an OSU Cowboy Get Mail Visit Campus Apply Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions219 Student Union | Stillwater, OK 74078405-744-5358admissions@okstate.edu Take your next steps to joining the Cowboy family. Now that you've been admitted, you need to complete a few important steps before your first semester at OSU begins. Please note, we do not have a formal acceptance policy; completing the steps listed here will ensure you're on your way to becoming an OSU Cowboy. 1. Create your O-Key account okey.okstate.edu | (405) 744-4357 Your O-Key account is your passport to campus. You have to set it up before you can access your OSU email account, accept your scholarships and financial aid, sign up for housing, register for classes and more. 2. Check your OSU email at least once a week orangemail.okstate.edu or cowboymail.okstate.edu Once you have your O-Key account set up, you can access your OSU email account. This is where communication from the university will be sent, including scholarships and financial aid award letters, housing selection and enrollment information, so it's important to check it at least once a week. You can access your OSU email through your cellphone or forward your OSU email to an existing account. Click here or contact the IT Help Desk at 405-744-4357 for additional information on these steps. 3. Complete your FAFSA fafsa.gov To be considered for financial aid and some scholarships, you must complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Submit the FAFSA as soon as possible after October 1 and enter OSU's school code 003170 to ensure we receive your records. You may be asked to submit additional documents by OSU’s Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid to complete the process. Requests will be sent to your OSU email, so remember to continue checking your email account. If you receive a request for additional documents, it’s critical that you respond as soon as possible so your potential student aid isn’t affected. 4. Apply for housing and select a meal plan beginning Dec. 1 reslife.okstate.edu | (405) 744-5592 OSU offers three styles of housing: suites, apartments and community-style. There are also several living-learning communities, where you live alongside others who share common interests or fields of study. Transfer students with less than 28 credit hours earned must live on campus. Exceptions to this rule are students who are married, 21 years or older or have dependent children living with them. 5. Sign up for orientation & enrollment firstyearsuccess.okstate.edu | (405) 744-3636 Orientation & enrollment previews student life in and out of the classroom. You'll meet with academic advisers, confirm your academic college and major, take placement tests, enroll in classes, meet other new students and learn about campus resources. This program is mandatory for transfer students, and multiple sessions are available. Registration opens Feb. 1 for fall-entering students and Oct. 1 for spring-entering students. You're encouraged to register family members to attend with you. Family orientation includes joint sessions with students as well as parent-only programming. 6. Accept your Scholarships & Financial Aid my.okstate.edu | (405) 744-6604 Log in to my.okstate.edu with your O-Key account to accept your award(s). Your application for admission is also your application for scholarships. If you’re eligible for scholarships or financial aid, you’ll receive an award letter in your OSU email account. Many awards are time-sensitive, so it's important to accept them as soon as possible. 7. Complete the New Student Success Modules Our new online student success modules are required and provide an in-depth overview of resources at OSU. Once you register for orientation and enrollment, you will unlock the modules. They are filled with tips and tricks for you to be a successful student and will help you come to orientation and enrollment better prepared. These modules must be completed at least one week prior to your orientation date. Once registered for orientation, visit orientation.okstate.edu to complete the modules. 8. Take the Math Placement Exam The exam is required for most students before beginning a math course at OSU. The OSU Math Placement Exam is available beginning March 1 for fall-entering students and is designed to find the strengths and weaknesses of your mathematical knowledge, report results to you, and then, if necessary, provide you with online learning modules for improving your knowledge to prepare for the appropriate course. Visit the Math Placement website for more information. 9. Register for Welcome Week Welcome Week provides a variety of activities for you based on your interests in the week leading up to the first day of classes in the fall semester. It's a great time for you to meet new friends, learn traditions and find out more about OSU. Most notably, our Key Signature Events are recommended for all students. 10. Submit your immunization records shots.okstate.edu | (405) 744-7665 The State of Oklahoma requires all new students to provide proof of immunization for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and for hepatitis B. You must submit your health and immunization history and any supporting documentation to University Health Services. 11. Finalize your admission file admissions.okstate.edu | (405) 744-5358 Your admission to Oklahoma State is based on the academic information available at the time of your application review. Transfer students must submit final transcripts from previous schools, even if a degree was not earned. Send all documents to: Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union Stillwater, Ok 74078 12. Pack all your orange and move to Stillwater! After you select a room, Residential Life will email you move-in dates and other important information. Once you get on campus and unpack, head to the University Store in the Student Union to get your books and start your collection of Cowboy memorabilia. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©