Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions International Rankings & Differentiators - International A World Class Education at OSU Arabic Chinese hindi Korean Spanish Vietnamese Join the Cowboy Family We hope you will join our vibrant community of international scholars with students from more than 100 countries! When you apply for admission at Oklahoma State University, you will automatically be considered for scholarships. Apply today to begin your academic journey at OSU. Apply Now Oklahoma State University What is it like to be an OSU student? OSU has a close-knit global community, representing more than 100 countries. The moment you arrive on campus, you will feel right at home. Watch the video and let our current international students tell you what it's like to be an OSU student. Testimonial Videos OSU is a national leader inside and outside the classroom. Oklahoma State University has been awarded the 5-Star University Rating by QS Stars and ranked as a Top 80 Public School by U.S. News. Many of our academic program rankings prove that OSU will help prepare you for a bright future. You are welcome to learn and work side by side with renowned faculty and experts in your field. You can conduct hands-on research with your professors as early as your first year. With more than 200 degree options, we offer a wide scope of innovative academic opportunities! OSU also provides pre-law, pre-health and pre-veterinary advising, and you can pursue these careers from any major! OSU IN THE RANKINGS A friendly, safe and vibrant learning environment A diverse community of students and faculty representing more than 100 countries. OSU offers a variety of housing options including suites, apartments and community-style housing along with more than 30 dining options on campus where you can be comfortable and safe. Take a virtual tour and explore OSU from home! Stillwater consistently ranks as one of the nation’s most beautiful campuses and one of the best places to live in the U.S. We are recognized nationally for the friendliness of our people, and we have many resources to ensure our students have a great quality of life. Quality of life rankings Spend less. Get more. We are committed to making a world-class education affordable. Oklahoma State University has been named a 2017 Best College Value by Kiplinger's Personal Finance for the 14th time since 2000. OSU is ranked among the top 75 Best Values in Public Colleges for providing an outstanding education at a great price. We also offer great scholarships for international students, up to $10,000 per year! Rankings for affordability Once-in-a-lifetime OSU Experience An education at OSU is about more than just classes. You can get involved in campus activities and clubs, and make lifelong friends from all over the world! OSU provides a number of organizations and support services for international students, which will help ease your transition to college life and allow you to be fully immersed in the OSU community. These opportunities also help you improve your resume for a successful career. We have more than 500 campus organizations and nationally renowned campus recreation facilities. We offer a variety of fun programs, activities, concerts, sporting and cultural events. Campus Life Become a highly sought after OSU graduate We bring employers to you. Oklahoma State University has been recognized by The Wall Street Journal as a top 45 school whose graduates rank highest with recruiters. More than 800 companies from around the nation and world visit campus each year for career fairs and on-campus interviews with OSU students. OSU Career Services hosts several career fairs each year and offers a wide variety of services to help you develop as a professional. Career Services Take the next steps to become a student at OSU! Learn more Find out about the admission requirements, cost of attendance and more! Get email Join our email list so you can learn more about studying at OSU. Apply for admission and scholarships Your application for admission is also your application for scholarships at OSU. Apply now! Notable OSU International Alumni Start turning your dream into a reality at OSU! Spanning more than 100 countries, OSU international alumni have been making their mark as leaders in education, business, government, health, and many other fields across the globe. Kylychbek Isa is from Kyrgyzstan and currently works as a program manager at HelpAge International. He also serves as the chairman of NGO Creative Community and is a board member of Association of Social Entrepreneurs of Kyrgyzstan. Julieta Sevene is from Mozambique and currently works as an education officer for UNICEF Mozambique where she leads portfolios on gender in education. Where you’ll spend timeOutside of class, these are some of the most popular places on campus. Homecoming Residential life Residential life OSU Dining Colvin Center OSU Basketball Game OSU Football Game A Cultural Event at OSU International Expo Student Activities Jazz Ensemble Lights on Stillwater International Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©