Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Student Life Being a Cowboy is about more than what happens inside the classroom. It's about becoming part of the OSU family and finding your own place to thrive. Getting Involved Pursue an existing passion or find a brand-new interest. Our students live, lead and grow in more than 500 clubs and organizations. Choose from Greek life, diverse student associations, dozens of intramural sports and hundreds of individual clubs. No matter what, there is a place for you in the Cowboy family. LEADERSHIP & CAMPUS LIFE Housing We call Stillwater home and we invite YOU to do the same. Living on campus is one of the best ways to make friends and join the community. Students live in centrally located on-campus housing. Choose your own roommate(s) or let us help you find a roommate based on interests, habits and schedule preferences. HOUSING & RESIDENTIAL LIFE 31RESIDENTIAL HALLS in four distinct living styles: traditional halls, suites, deluxe suites and apartments 15LIVING LEARNING PROGRAMS including honors, college-specific and interest-based options Dining With over 30 dining options on campus, there is something for everyone! Flexible meal plans offer you the freedom to choose how, when and what you eat. From convenience stores to cafeterias, from national franchises to sit-down restaurants, there is something for every taste and dietary need. DINING OPTIONS & MEAL PLANS Student Employment For your career and professional development As an OSU student, you will find many internship and employment opportunities. Looking to build your professional network and cover college costs? Review part-time or work-study position openings, including both on- and off-campus jobs. Explore Career Services Be Well Everything you need to stay active, healthy and comfortable We are committed to making OSU America’s healthiest campus. Need a workout? Visit the Colvin Recreation Center and it’s 240,000 square feet of recreation options. Or check out the Seretean Wellness Center for personal fitness training, nutrition lessons and counseling. Explore Services and facilities Counseling Services Gyms, Pools & Recreation Facilities Health Clinic Intramural & Club Sports Police Department Psychology Clinic Where you’ll spend timeOutside of class, these are some of the most popular places on campus. New buildings going up at OSU enhance the learning experience in many ways — even offering some students an opportunity to get involved with the process. The work done in real-world conditions in labs better prepares CEAT students for their careers. The renovated Colvin Center is the well-being heart of America’s Healthiest Campus ™. Traditions at America’s Greatest Homecoming include the dyeing of the library fountain. Orange Power! Speaking of Orange Power, the student section at Boone Pickens Stadium is a sea of orange on home football game days. OSU remembers and honors fallen members of the military on Veterans Day every year. Studying includes more than merely hitting the books. Sewing is among the many skills the students who study apparel merchandising in the College of Education and Human Sciences hone during their education. Collaboration is key to success in the classroom and in life. OSU’s residence halls offer a variety of options for a student’s home away from home. Traditions From America’s Greatest Homecoming to finals week pancakes Discover what being a Cowboy is all about. We invite you to dive into the sea of orange and learn about the campus culture, celebrations and fun that make OSU special. OUR TRADITIONS OSU Athletics Division I athletics in the Big 12 conference Welcome to the home of Olympic gold medalists and NCAA champions. Join Pistol-Pete on the field as we push the competitive Cowboy spirit to the max. With student tickets, you can be a part of every Oklahoma State home game, in every sport, all year. TEAMS & SCHEDULES WE ARE ALL COWBOYSHailing from all 50 states and 100 countries, we are united by the Cowboy Code. We end the day knowing we gave it everything we had. We dream only as big as the sky. We know challenges come with pain, but pain will not win. We have a passion to do what's right, even when it's hard. We stand for what matters, even if we stand alone. We finish what we start. Being a Cowboy isn't in our clothes, it's in our character. Inspired by the book "Cowboy Ethics: What Wall Street Can Learn from The Code of the West." © 2004 James P. Owen Home Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions requirements Application steps Essays Essay questions Essay tips Creative supplement Leadership & involvement resume Tips for applying Important dates & deadlines Application fee Admitted students' next steps Credit by exam College credit transfer guides Transfers Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps College credit transfer guides The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events OSU Transfer Pass/No Pass International students Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Online degrees Concurrent Admissions requirements Application steps Readmission Admissions requirements Application steps Military leave of absence Non-Degree seekers Undocumented students High school counselors Submitting electronic transcripts OSU admissions publications Residency status Campus tours & events Daily tours Saturday tours Transfer tours OSU Up Close Scholars Day Admitted Student Day Junior Day Orange Fridays Inspire Orange Conference Group tours GEAR UP Meet our tour guides Videos from current students Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost of attendance Undergraduate costs In-state costs In-state cost estimates Previous year in-state cost estimates Out-of-state costs Previous year out-of-state costs International costs Graduate costs Veterinary Medicine costs Adjustment to cost of attendance Cost-cutting ideas Financial aid process Apply for aid Award notifications Accepting aid Receive aid (disbursement) Changes to aid Award terms and conditions Enrollment update form Scholarships & grants Freshman scholarships In-state scholarships In-state Automatic Qualifiers In-state Institutional Nominee In-state National Merit Scholar Oklahoma State Scholars Society Out-of-state scholarships Out-of-State Institutional Nominee Out-of-State National Merit International scholarships Transfer scholarships Current undergraduate scholarships Outside scholarships Grants Oklahoma's Promise Teach Grant Cowboy Covenant Work & loans Student employment & work study Loans Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent Plus Loan Federal Direct Graduate Plus Loan Health Professions Loan Program Private loans Short Term Emergency Loans Student Loan Code of Conduct Estimate your expenses Topics A-Z Cost & aid A-Z Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions 2019-2020 Tuition waiver scholarship important information Public disclosures for CARES Act Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students for Oklahoma State University 2021-2022 in-state scholarship chart Public disclosures for CARES Act Institutional Funds Apply Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©