Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home About OSU About OSU A land-grant institution with more than 35,000 students across a five-campus system, we've graduated more than 264,000 students to serve the state of Oklahoma, the nation and the world. OSU by the numbers Not too big. Not too small. Just right. Students from across the U.S. and more than 100 countries converge on this campus creating a vibrant and inclusive culture. With a student-to-faculty ratio of 20:1, we will help you prepare for the future by providing the academic support you need. Fast Facts Since 1890 OSU has grown to become a premier modern land-grant university Founded on Dec. 25, 1890 as Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College, OSU's land-grant mission is to make a college education more accessible. Our roots are set in a rich tradition, and our actions are guided by the Cowboy Code. History Leading a new legacy President Kayse Shrum A Cowboy without question, OSU alumna Dr. Kayse Shrum has made a sizable impact as the president of OSU-CHS. Now, alongside faculty and staff, she's taking the reins on the OSU system in its entirety with intentional focus on growth, collaboration and inclusivity. university leadership A place to call home Stillwater, OK Located in northeast Oklahoma, Stillwater is just 60 miles from both Oklahoma City and Tulsa. Southern Living ranked Stillwater sixth on its list for "The South's Friendliest Cities 2018," and OSU sits at the heart of it all. About Stillwater Committed to the public good Accessibility Student Disabilities Services provides assistance in the classroom and in everyday life on campus. America's Healthiest Campus As America’s Healthiest Campus®, we believe that wellness is more than diet and exercise - it’s a lifestyle. Cooperative Extension We provide science-based educational programs and resources to help Oklahomans address issues and manage resources wisely. Diversity OSU is committed to excellence in diversity and inclusion. We want everyone to feel welcome here! Outreach & Community Engagement As a university, we strive to be a part of the community and give back to those in Oklahoma and beyond. Research One of the essential components of our land-grant mission, our researchers aim to improve quality of life with new ideas. Safety Considered one of the safest campuses in the region, OSU dedicates many resources to enhancing safety for students, faculty and staff. Sustainability The Environmental Protection Agency and other sustainability groups have recognized our efforts for conserving energy and reducing waste. Nationally recognized We're more than proud of the recognition OSU has received from organizations all across the nation. University rankings A top-tier university From being named a top public university to being known as America's Healthiest Campus, OSU's awards and rankings showcase our academic distinctions, campus culture and value. Learn more about each area in the rankings pages below. Academic and researchAffordabilityQuality of Life Home Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions requirements Application steps Essays Essay questions Essay tips Creative supplement Leadership & involvement resume Tips for applying Important dates & deadlines Application fee Admitted students' next steps Credit by exam College credit transfer guides Transfers Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps College credit transfer guides The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events OSU Transfer Pass/No Pass International students Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Online degrees Concurrent Admissions requirements Application steps Readmission Admissions requirements Application steps Military leave of absence Non-Degree seekers Undocumented students High school counselors Submitting electronic transcripts OSU admissions publications Residency status Campus tours & events Daily tours Saturday tours Transfer tours OSU Up Close Scholars Day Admitted Student Day Junior Day Orange Fridays Inspire Orange Conference Group tours GEAR UP Meet our tour guides Videos from current students Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost of attendance Undergraduate costs In-state costs In-state cost estimates Previous year in-state cost estimates Out-of-state costs Previous year out-of-state costs International costs Graduate costs Veterinary Medicine costs Adjustment to cost of attendance Cost-cutting ideas Financial aid process Apply for aid Award notifications Accepting aid Receive aid (disbursement) Changes to aid Award terms and conditions Enrollment update form Scholarships & grants Freshman scholarships In-state scholarships In-state Automatic Qualifiers In-state Institutional Nominee In-state National Merit Scholar Oklahoma State Scholars Society Out-of-state scholarships Out-of-State Institutional Nominee Out-of-State National Merit International scholarships Transfer scholarships Current undergraduate scholarships Outside scholarships Grants Oklahoma's Promise Teach Grant Cowboy Covenant Work & loans Student employment & work study Loans Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent Plus Loan Federal Direct Graduate Plus Loan Health Professions Loan Program Private loans Short Term Emergency Loans Student Loan Code of Conduct Estimate your expenses Topics A-Z Cost & aid A-Z Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions 2019-2020 Tuition waiver scholarship important information Public disclosures for CARES Act Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students for Oklahoma State University 2021-2022 in-state scholarship chart Public disclosures for CARES Act Institutional Funds Apply Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©