Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Scholarships and Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships & Grants Grants Oklahoma's Promise Grants Oklahoma's Promise Teach Grant Cowboy Covenant Contact Scholarships and Financial Aid 119 Student Union Office Hours: Monday-Friday 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. OSU School Code: 003170 Phone: 405.744.6604 Fax: 405.744.6438 finaid@okstate.edu Oklahoma's Promise We're committed to helping academically-eligible Oklahoma's Promise recipients achieve the dream of a college education at OSU. Oklahoma students in grades 8-11 can sign up to participate in the program, administered by the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education (OSRHE). Once you graduate from high school, complete the curricular and conduct requirements for the program and meet the secondary income requirement, you will receive funding from Oklahoma's Promise to cover the cost of tuition at OSU. And OSU will offer you a Cowboy Covenant award of $1,000 each year the first four years you receive Oklahoma's Promise. Cowboy Covenant See Cowboy Covenant-An Oklahoma's Promise Partnership for details. What is the value of my Oklahoma's Promise award? Oklahoma's Promise is a cash award that pays an amount equal to a student's undergraduate tuition charges. The amount does not include the costs for fees, books, supplies, room, board or other charges. However, if another type of aid (such as a tuition waiver) is used to pay for tuition, the Oklahoma's Promise award would still be the same as the original tuition charges, and those funds could be used to pay other educational expenses. How does the income check work? Please refer to OSRHE. When does my eligibility for Oklahoma's Promise start? Please refer to OSRHE. When does my eligibility for Oklahoma's Promise end? Please refer to OSRHE. I am eligible for Oklahoma's Promise and I have an undergraduate tuition waiver scholarship from OSU. May I receive both my Oklahoma's Promise scholarship and my OSU tuition waiver at the same time? Yes. Students who previously qualified for and were awarded an undergraduate tuition waiver by OSU may receive that tuition waiver and Oklahoma's Promise at the same time. Oklahoma's Promise is a cash award from the State of Oklahoma, while the tuition waiver is an award from OSU. Your awards cannot exceed the Cost of Attendance for that term. I would like to attend OSU during the summer term. Will Oklahoma's Promise pay during summer terms? Please refer to OSRHE. What are my minimum and maximum numbers of hours of enrollment for Oklahoma's Promise eligibility? Please refer to OSRHE. What grade point average must I maintain to continue receiving Oklahoma's Promise at OSU? All Oklahoma’s Promise recipients must meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy. All students receiving Oklahoma’s Promise must meet this requirement, including students who have not applied for and/or received federal/state financial aid. If you are ineligible to receive federal/state financial aid as defined by OSU’s SAP policy, you will not be eligible to receive Oklahoma’s Promise or Cowboy Covenant funding. If I withdraw from some courses this semester and am no longer classified as a full-time student, will I lose my Oklahoma's Promise scholarship and will I have to reimburse Oklahoma's Promise for the funds I received for those courses? Please refer to OSRHE. If my federal financial aid is suspended, will I lose my Oklahoma's Promise scholarship? Yes, you will lose your Oklahoma’s Promise award until your financial aid eligibility is reinstated. Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education policy,is that all Oklahoma’s Promise recipients must meet OSU’s federal Title IV financial aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) policy. If you're ineligible to receive federal/state financial aid as defined by OSU’s SAP policy, you won't be eligible to receive Oklahoma’s Promise or Cowboy Covenant funding. If you lose your Oklahoma's Promise eligibility due to not meeting the federal Title IV SAP standards, you will have the option to appeal for reinstatement, assuming you have not already reached the five-year, 129 hours, Oklahoma's Promise limit(s). I qualified for Oklahoma's Promise while in high school but I was admitted to OSU under the Alternative Admission standards. May I receive Oklahoma's Promise? Students admitted under the Alternative Admit provision are not considered to be fully admitted for purposes of Oklahoma’s Promise during their first semester at OSU; however, these students are eligible for a one-time, $2,500 OK Promise Alternative Award during that semester. Remember that this first semester, during which you did not receive Oklahoma's Promise payment but received the one-time cash award, still counts against your five years of Oklahoma's Promise eligibility. I started attending OSU in the fall term after I graduated from high school and attended for a year. I decided to stay out of college for a year so I could work but now I want to return to OSU. Will I still have my Oklahoma's Promise when I return? Please refer to OSRHE. I am an Oklahoma's Promise student who attended another Oklahoma college previously and am transferring to OSU. Will my Oklahoma's Promise scholarship transfer to OSU and, if so, what do I need to do? Yes, your Oklahoma's Promise scholarship will transfer to OSU. Contact our office to let us know you are transferring to OSU as an Oklahoma's Promise student. (You should also submit the Undergraduate Application for Admission/Scholarships by the application deadline.) Unless you are having problems, it is not necessary to contact the Oklahoma's Promise office at the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education to tell them of your transfer. I have completed my bachelor's degree and I would like to go on to graduate school. May I still receive Oklahoma's Promise? Please refer to OSRHE. I have not completed my bachelor's degree and I would like to take some graduate-level classes while still an undergraduate at OSU. May I still receive Oklahoma's Promise? Yes, with some restrictions. If you are permitted to enroll in graduate-level courses prior to the completion of your bachelor's degree, you can use Oklahoma's Promise to help pay the tuition for those graduate-level courses. However, your Oklahoma's Promise payment for those graduate course hours will be limited to the equivalent cost of undergraduate tuition for those hours; it will NOT pay at the graduate tuition rate. Your Oklahoma's Promise scholarship will not pay for those graduate course hours automatically. You must contact our office to inform us of your graduate enrollment and ask to have your Oklahoma's Promise scholarship pay the amount allowed for those hours. May I use Oklahoma's Promise to pay for independent study, correspondence or extension course enrollment? Yes, with the following conditions: Independent Study, correspondence and extension course charges may include additional fees or costs beyond normal in-residence tuition costs. Oklahoma's Promise will not pay any such additional fee amount. Any such payment will be limited to the equivalent per-credit-hour rate for a resident course multiplied by the number of credit hours offered for the course. A student's enrollment in such a course may not show in the University computer system accessible by our office. Thus, an Oklahoma's Promise student wishing to use Oklahoma's Promise to pay for this type of course must bring evidence of enrollment in that course as well as evidence of the cost for that course to our office before payment can be made. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©