Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Next Steps Admitted Students Next Steps Freshmen Admissions requirements Application steps Essays Essay questions Essay tips Creative supplement Leadership & involvement resume Tips for applying Important dates & deadlines Application fee Admitted students' next steps Credit by exam College credit transfer guides Become an OSU Cowboy Get Mail Visit Campus Apply Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions219 Student Union | Stillwater, OK 74078405-744-5358admissions@okstate.edu Take your next steps toward joining the Cowboy family Congratulations on being admitted to OSU! Share the good news with us on social media using #okstate26 or #FutureCowboys. Now that you've been admitted, you need to complete a few important steps to make it official. We encourage students to complete the steps below as soon as possible. Some scholarships and financial aid may be canceled if they aren't accepted by May 1. See next steps for students entering OSU in the spring semester at the bottom of the page. 1. Create your O-Key account Your O-Key account is your passport to campus. You have to set it up before you can access your OSU email account, accept your scholarships and financial aid, sign up for housing, register for classes and more. 2. Check your OSU email at least once a week Once you have your O-Key account set up, you can access your OSU email account at orangemail.okstate.edu or cowboymail.okstate.edu. This is where communication from the university will be sent, including scholarships and financial aid award letters, housing selection and enrollment information, so it's important to check it at least once a week. You can access your OSU email through your cellphone or forward your OSU email to an existing account. Contact the IT Help Desk at 405-744-4357 for additional information on these steps. 3. Complete your FAFSA To be considered for financial aid and some scholarships, you must complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Submit the FAFSA as soon as possible after October 1 and enter OSU's school code (003170) to ensure we receive your records. You may be asked to submit additional documents by OSU’s Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid to complete the process. Requests will be sent to your OSU email, so remember to continue checking your email account. If you receive a request for additional documents, it’s critical that you respond as soon as possible so your potential student aid isn’t affected. 4. Submit your enrollment deposit Upon admission to OSU, all freshmen beginning classes in the summer or fall must pay the $300 enrollment deposit to register for housing and orientation and enrollment. Students who are eligible for a Pell Grant as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid will have their enrollment deposit deferred. The enrollment deposit can be refunded in part ($250) until May 1. You can submit your enrollment deposit beginning Dec. 1 by logging in to your application portal. 5. Apply for housing and select a meal plan OSU offers three styles of housing: suites, apartments and community-style. There are also several Living Learning Programs which allow you to live alongside others who share common interests or fields of study. Room selection will be based on the date and time of your housing application. The application for housing opens Feb. 1. You'll also choose your meal plan at this time. You must apply separately to the Living Learning Program(s) of your choice through your application portal. 6. Sign up for orientation & enrollment Orientation and enrollment previews student life in and out of the classroom. You'll meet with academic advisors, confirm your academic college and major, take placement tests, enroll in classes, meet other new students and learn about campus resources. Orientation is mandatory for new students, and multiple sessions are available, including online sessions for those who are unable to attend in person. Registration opens on Feb. 1. You're encouraged to register a family member to attend with you. Family orientation includes joint sessions with students as well as parent-only programming, but is capped at one guest due to capacity for social distancing measures. 7. Select your room Once you’ve completed your enrollment deposit and housing application, room selection will take place in March for students who have been selected for a Living Learning Program, and in April for all other new students. You will receive an email with instructions to select your room from Residential Life. 8. Accept your scholarships & financial aid Your application for admission is also your application for scholarships. If you’re eligible for scholarships or financial aid, you'll receive your award letter(s) that will be sent to your OSU email account. Some awards must be accepted by May 1 or will be canceled. Log in to my.okstate.edu with your O-Key account to accept your award(s). 9. Complete the New Student Success Modules Our new online student success modules are required and provide an in-depth overview of resources at OSU. Once you register for orientation and enrollment, you will unlock the modules. They are filled with tips and tricks for you to be a successful student and will help you come to orientation and enrollment better prepared. These modules must be completed at least one week prior to your orientation date. Once registered for orientation, visit orientation.okstate.edu to complete the modules. 10. Take the Math Placement Exam The exam is required for most students and opens March 1. The OSU Math Placement Exam is designed to find the strengths and weaknesses of your mathematical knowledge, report results to you, and then, if necessary, provide you with online learning modules for improving your knowledge to prepare for the appropriate course. The exam helps us make sure you start in the best OSU math course for you to be successful. Visit the Math Placement website for more information. 11. Submit your immunization records The State of Oklahoma requires all new students to provide proof of immunization for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and for hepatitis B. You must submit your health and immunization history and any supporting documentation to University Health Services. 12. Finalize your admission file Your admission to Oklahoma State is based on the academic information available at the time of your application review. You must submit an official ACT or SAT test score and your final high school transcript, including final semester grades and proof of graduation. Send all documents to: Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 13. Register for Cowboy Welcome Cowboy Welcome registration opens May 1 and the week is full of a variety of activities for you based on your interests in the week leading up to the first day of classes. It’s a great time for you to meet new friends, learn traditions and find out more about OSU. Most notably, our Key Signature Events are recommended for all students. 14. Pack all your orange and move to Stillwater! After you select a room, residential life will email you move-in dates and other important information. Once you get on campus and unpack, head to the University Store in the Student Union to get your books and start your collection of Cowboy memorabilia. Don't forget to follow Oklahoma State University on social media to be the first to know about all things #okstate! Next Steps for spring entering students. 1. Create O-Key Account Your O-Key account is your passport to campus. You have to set it up before you can access your OSU email account, accept your scholarships and financial aid, sign up for housing, register for classes and more. 2. Check your OSU email at least once a week Once you have your O-Key account set up, you can access your OSU email account at orangemail.okstate.edu or cowboymail.okstate.edu. This is where communication from the university will be sent, including scholarships and financial aid award letters, housing selection and enrollment information, so it's important to check it at least once a week. You can access your OSU email through your cellphone or forward your OSU email to an existing account. Contact the IT Help Desk at 405-744-4357 for additional information on these steps. 3. Complete your FAFSA To be considered for financial aid and some scholarships, you must complete the FAFSA, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. You will need to submit the current school year's FAFSA as well as the next school year's FAFSA as soon as possible after October 1 and enter OSU's school code (003170) to ensure we receive your records. You may be asked to submit additional documents by OSU’s Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid to complete the process. Requests will be sent to your OSU email, so remember to continue checking your email account. If you receive a request for additional documents, it’s critical that you respond as soon as possible so your potential student aid isn’t affected. 4. Submit your enrollment deposit For students entering in the spring, submit your enrollment deposit beginning Sept. 1. The enrollment deposit can be refunded in part ($250) until Dec. 15. If you are eligible for a Pell Grant, as determined by the FAFSA, your enrollment deposit will be deferred as you complete the process. 5. Apply for housing and select a meal plan OSU offers three styles of housing: suites, apartments and community-style. There are also several Living Learning Programs which allow you to live alongside others who share common interests or fields of study. The application for housing opens Dec. 1. You'll also choose your meal plan at this time. You must apply separately to the Living Learning Program(s) of your choice through yourapplication portal. 6. Sign up for orientation & enrollment Orientation and enrollment sessions preview student life in and out of the classroom. You'll meet with academic advisers, confirm your academic college and major, take placement tests, enroll in classes, meet other new students and learn about campus resources. You may even stay overnight in the residence halls if you choose an overnight program. Orientation is mandatory for new students, and multiple sessions are available. Registration opens on Oct. 1. You're encouraged to register family members to attend with you. Family orientation includes joint sessions with students as well as parent-only programming. 7. Select your room Once you’ve completed your housing application and paid the housing deposit, you can select your room. Room selections begin on Dec. 1. 8. Accept your Scholarships and Financial Aid Your application for admission is also your application for scholarships. If you’re eligible for scholarships or financial aid, you'll receive your award letter(s) that will be sent to your OSU email account. Log in to my.okstate.edu with your O-Key account to accept your award(s). 9. Complete the New Student Success Modules Our new online student success modules are required and provide an in-depth overview of resources at OSU. Once you register for orientation and enrollment, you will unlock the modules. They are filled with tips and tricks for you to be a successful student and will help you come to orientation and enrollment better prepared. These modules must be completed at least one week prior to your orientation date. Once registered for orientation, visit orientation.okstate.edu to complete the modules. 10. Take the Math Placement Exam The exam is required for most students. The OSU Math Placement Exam is designed to find the strengths and weaknesses of your mathematical knowledge, report results to you, and then. if necessary. provide you with online learning modules for improving your knowledge to prepare for the appropriate course. Visit the Math Placement website for more information. 11. Submit your immunization records The State of Oklahoma requires all new students to provide proof of immunization for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and for hepatitis B. You must submit your health and immunization history and any supporting documentation to University Health Services. 12. Finalize your admission file Your admission to Oklahoma State is based on the academic information available at the time of your application review. You must submit an official ACT or SAT test score and your final high school transcript, including final semester grades and proof of graduation. Send all documents to: Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 13. Pack all of your orange and move to Stillwater! After you select a room, residential life will email you move-in dates and other important information. Once you get on campus and unpack, head to the University Store in the Student Union to get your books and start your collection of Cowboy memorabilia. Don't forget to follow Oklahoma State University on social media to be the first to know about all things #okstate! Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©