Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions International Next Steps Admitted Students Next Steps - International International Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Become an OSU Cowboy Get MailVirtual TourApply Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions219 Student Union | Stillwater, OK 74078405-744-5358international@okstate.edu Take your next steps to joining the Cowboy family. Congratulations on being admitted to OSU! Share the good news with us on social media using #okstate26 or #FutureCowboy. Now that you have been admitted, you need to complete a few important steps to make it official. Please note, we do not have a formal acceptance policy; completing the steps listed here will ensure you're on your way to becoming an OSU student. If you are currently in the United States in F-1 status and plan to remain in that same status, your next steps will be different. 1. Your I-20 documents and welcome package will be sent via email Due to a COVID-19 policy exception, OSU is issuing electronic I-20s until further notice. You will receive your I-20 via email and use the SEVIS number on your I-20 to pay the SEVIS fee and apply for an F-1 student visa. Your welcome package will guide your next steps to enrolling at OSU. Refer to it often to make sure you are completing all necessary requirements as soon as possible. 2. Apply for a student visa It’s very important to enter the United Sates with the proper visa. You must apply for a visa in order to enter the United States with student status. Use your SEVIS number on your Form I-20 to pay the SEVIS fee and apply for a visa. More detailed information on applying for a visa can be found here. 3. Create your O-Key account Your O-Key account is your passport to campus. You have to set it up before you can access your OSU email account, accept your scholarships and financial aid, sign up for housing, register for classes and more. Learn more about how to set up your O-Key. 4. Check your OSU email at least once a week Once you have your O-Key account set up, you can access your OSU email account. This is where communication from the university will be sent, including scholarships and financial aid award letters, housing selection and enrollment information, so it's important to check it at least once a week. You can access your OSU email through your cellphone or forward your OSU email to an existing account. For help setting up your O-Key, visit Information Technology's website or you can contact the IT Help Desk at +1 405-744-4357. 5. Submit your enrollment deposit Upon admission to OSU, all freshmen must pay the $300 enrollment deposit to register for housing and orientation and enrollment. The enrollment deposit can be refunded in part ($250) before the following deadlines: Fall semester: May 1 Spring semester: December 15 If you are a freshman starting in the fall semester, you can submit your enrollment deposit beginning December 1. Spring students can submit your enrollment deposit beginning September 1. Log in to your application portal to submit your enrollment deposit. 6. Register for housing and select a meal plan (optional for transfer students) All students are required to live in residence halls and purchase a meal plan at the bronze level or above UNLESS they are married, 21 years of age or order or have completed 28 college credit hours. OSU offers three styles of housing: suites, apartments and community-style. There are also several living-learning communities, where you live alongside others who share common interests or fields of study. OSU housing has been shown to lead to higher grades, better graduation rates and a vigorous social life. You can enjoy these opportunities right outside your door. OSU's very safe campus allows you to live steps away from classes, academic buildings and campus resources! Register for housing begins February 1 for students entering OSU in the fall semester and December 1 for students entering OSU in the spring semester. You will also choose your meal plan at that time. You must make arrangements for permanent housing before you arrive in Stillwater. 7. Register for orientation and enrollment All students are required to attend and complete orientation and enrollment. Orientation will include such topics as academic information, immigration regulations, housing, food, Stillwater community, transportation, banking practices, legal issues, health care and American customs. Your Orientation will be the best time for you to become familiar with OSU. Register for orientation here. Registration opens February 1 for students entering OSU in the fall semester and October 1 for students entering OSU in the spring Semester. Orientation and Enrollment Dates Fall 2022 August 16-19, 2022* Spring 2023 January 9-13, 2022* *All dates are required. 8. Book your flight and transportation to OSU Travel Information You may enter the U.S. in initial F-1 status up to 30 days before the program start date on your I-20. If you are transferring your SEVIS record from another school in the U.S. and received an OSU Transfer Pending I-20, you can enter the U.S. anytime prior to the program start date. Keep the following documents in your carry-on while flying, you will need them in-hand at the Port of Entry. DOCUMENTS NEEDED FOR ENTRY TO THE U.S. Valid passport and F-1 visa Form I-20 Evidence of admission at OSU SEVIS fee receipt Any other documentation your embassy/consulate requires Airport information Stillwater is located in the north central part of Oklahoma. The Stillwater Regional Airport is less than 10 minutes from the OSU campus and provides daily nonstop flights to and from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport on American Airlines. We encourage you to book one of these flights. The nearest international airports are in Oklahoma City and Tulsa (located 70 miles/110 kilometers from Stillwater). Please note that students are responsible for their own travel arrangements to the OSU campus. Greeter Service OSU representatives will assist you with ground transportation from the Stillwater Regional Airport to the OSU campus at no additional cost on the arrival dates (August 13-14, 2022 for the fall 2022 semester and January 7-8, 2023 for the spring 2023 semester). On these dates, we will greet and assist you with ground transportation from the Stillwater airport to the OSU campus at no additional cost. For this service, you must fill out the OSU Greeter Service Form. You can find more information about OSU airport and ground transportation online. 9. Submit your immunization records University Health Services requires students to fill out a health history and immunization form. The form is included in the welcome package and can also be found online. It is recommended that you complete this form before your arrival on campus. Students should note that they will not be allowed to enroll in their second semester at OSU until this form has been completed. You can submit form to University Health Services either in-person upon arrival or mail to the address listed on the form. Medical Insurance is required for all international students at Oklahoma State University and their dependents as U.S. medical care is expensive. Medical insurance will be provided upon arrival. Fees for insurance will be applied to the first tuition billing statement you receive. 10. Plan for university payments You are responsible for paying all incurred expenses while at OSU. You need to become familiar with your government’s regulations for obtaining foreign currency and transferring money and make arrangements in advance to have available adequate funds that will cover your expenses for at least one full academic year. Advance preparation is necessary because fund transferal, check clearance, and bank drafts may take several weeks. This will also help you avoid possible currency fluctuations/devaluations. Tuition and fee charges for the fall semester are due by September 15, 2022. Electronic notices are sent to the student’s OSU email address the first week of September for the first billing statement of the fall semester. Tuition and fee charges for the spring semester are due by February 15, 2023. Electronic notices are sent to the student’s OSU email address the first week of February for the first billing statement of the spring semester. Payment Method Web-Check/bank draft (online payment through bank draft) Credit Card Payment Western Union/International Wire Transfer Cable Transfer More information 11. Select your room Once you’ve completed your enrollment deposit and housing application, room selection will take place in March for fall students who have been selected for a Living Learning Program, and in April for all other new students. You will receive an email with instructions to select your room from Residential Life. Students entering OSU in the spring semester will be able to choose their rooms as soon as they complete their enrollment deposit and the housing application. Please note that transfer students are NOT required to submit the enrollment deposit. Students must choose the room before traveling to OSU. 12. Check for any enrollment holds To learn if you have any enrollment holds on your admission record that will delay your enrollment, log into the “Student Portal” and select “Student Profile.” Then click on “Holds” in the upper right corner. Submit any updated test scores and your final official transcript(s) as soon as possible. All transcripts must be issued by the school, in the original language; English translations are also required if the official transcript is not in English. International transcripts are considered official if they are submitted to our office in ONE of the following formats: The transcript is submitted in an envelope that is sealed and stamped by your school or the Department of Education in your home country. Official transcripts can be mailed directly from your institution or hand-delivered in a sealed envelope prior to enrollment at OSU. See examples of properly sealed envelopes for official transcripts. The transcript is sent to our office electronically at international@okstate.edu from your school or school representative via their official email account or transcript e-service. The transcript is sent to our office electronically at international@okstate.edu from your embassy or home government. If you plan to send the official transcripts to our office by mail, make sure that the documents be sent to the following address: Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 13. Travel to Stillwater, Oklahoma Orientation and enrollment is mandatory. You can find more information about OSU airport and ground transportation online. The U.S. government requires all travelers be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to the United States. Please review the COVID-19 traveler information for more details. Once you arrive on campus and finish unpacking your belongings, follow the next steps emails. You will need your OSU I-20, passport and immunization records when you are registering for the orientation. Important Dates Fall 2022 Spring 2022 Arrival Dates/Greeter Services August 13-14 January 7-8 Orientation and Enrollment August 15-19 January 9-13 Last Day for Enrollment August 19 January 13 Classes Begin August 22 January 17 (tentative) Last Day to Drop/Add Courses August 29 TBD If you are unable to arrive on campus to complete your enrollment by 5 p.m. (Central Time) on the final day of enrollment, you must contact OSU to have your application considered for a future semester. Please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at international@okstate.edu to move your entry term at OSU. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©