Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost and Aid A-to-Z Consumer Information Cost and Aid A-to-Z Cost & aid A-Z Cost & aid A-Z Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions Contact Scholarships and Financial Aid 119 Student Union Office Hours: Monday-Friday 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. OSU School Code: 003170 Phone: 405.744.6604 Fax: 405.744.6438 finaid@okstate.edu Consumer information The Student Consumer Regulations of the U.S. Department of Education require universities to provide their students access to certain information to which they are entitled as consumers. This publication contains a brief description of various important pieces of information about OSU, web sites to view this information, and addresses and phone number of the offices from which you may request the information. Additional information about specific programs and services is available from the individual academic colleges and departments. Nondiscrimination Policy Statement: Oklahoma State University, in compliance with the Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11246 as amended, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and other federal laws and regulations, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion, disability or status as a veteran in any of its policies, practices or procedures. This includes but is not limited to admissions, employment, financial aid and educational services. Title IX of the Education Amendments and Oklahoma State University policy prohibit discrimination in the provision or services or benefits offered by the university based on gender. Any person (student, faculty or staff) who believes that discriminatory practices have been engaged in based on gender may discuss his or her concerns and file informal or formal complaints of possible violations of Title IX with OSU’s Title IX coordinator: Director of Affirmative Action 408 Whitehurst, Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK, 74078 (405) 744-5371 (405) 744-5576 (fax). Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) In carrying out their assigned responsibilities, many offices at OSU collect and maintain information about students. Although these records belong to the university, both university policy and federal law accord student a number of rights concerning these records. The essence of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is to give a student the right to inspect his or her education records and to protect the privacy of these records. Students have the right to inspect, review, and/or request an amendment to these records; consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information in these records; restrict disclosure of information designated as directory information that may be released without consent of the student; and file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education for alleged failure by OSU to comply with FERPA requirements. The OSU FERPA Policy Statement, with information and instructions for students, parents, faculty, and staff, is available on the website of the OSU Registrar’s Office. Information on Student Financial Assistance Overview of financial aid programs: Types of aid with descriptions, including grant funding through the State of Oklahoma. Information about OSU and non-OSU scholarships. Criteria for selecting recipients and for determining amount of award: Information on how need is determined and how need-based aid is awarded. Eligibility requirements: In addition to the specific requirements for the various types of aid listed on the overview above, applicants have general eligibility requirements for federal financial aid. Procedures for applying for aid: Information on applying for aid Rights and responsibilities of aid recipients: The rights and responsibilities are outlined in the OSU Student Code of Conduct. Continued eligibility for aid: Information regarding continued eligibility for aid Standards for Satisfactory Academic Progress: The Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy outlines requirements to maintain eligibility, requirements to regain eligibility, and the appeal process. Methods and Frequency of Disbursements of Aid: Financial aid is disbursed to students in different ways depending on the type of aid and other factors. Financial aid for Study Abroad: Enrollment in a program of study abroad approved for credit by OSU may be considered enrollment at OSU for the purpose of applying for Title IV federal student aid. Terms and conditions of financial aid employment: Federal work-study employment information Terms of student loans: Information about each type of loan, including descriptions, interest rates, loan fees, annual and aggregate limits, the necessity to repay the loan, and possible deferment or cancellation provisions National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS): Information relating to individual federal student and parent loan borrowers will be submitted by OSU to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and institutions determined to be authorized users of the data system. Student Loan Information Published by the U.S. Department of Education: In addition to OSU-specific information and procedures related to federal student loans, students can find information published by the U.S. Department of Education. Code of Conduct for Student Loans: OSU adheres to a code of conduct regarding relationships with providers of private educational loans. The Exit Counseling Information the Institution Provides and Collects: Students loan borrowers are notified, during the semester in which they have applied for graduation, that they need to complete student loan exit counseling. Federal Direct Subsidized or Unsubsidized Loan borrowers complete exit counseling through the U.S. Dept. of Education. Federal Perkins Loan borrowers complete exit counseling through the OSU Bursar’s Office, 113 Student Union, Stillwater, OK 74078. Tel: 405-744-5993. Email: bursar@okstate.edu. *Starting 2021-2022, this is no longer in effect as eligibility criteria. Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations: A conviction for any offense, during the period of enrollment for which the student was receiving Title IV, HEA program funds, under any federal or state law involving the possession or sale of illegal drugs will result in the loss of eligibility for any Title IV, HEA grant, loan, or work-study assistance. Price of Attending OSU: Actual OSU tuition and fee charges are provided by the OSU Bursar Estimated tuition and fees, books and supplies, room and board, and personal/miscellaneous expenses are provided by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Undergraduate students Graduate students Veterinary Medicine students Refund Policy and Withdrawal Procedures: The OSU Refund of Tuition/Fees Policy and the procedures for withdrawing from the University are provided by the OSU Registrar. Student Loan Default Rates: A 3-year cohort default rate is the percentage of a school's borrowers who enter repayment on certain Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program or William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program loans during a particular federal fiscal year (FY), October 1 to September 30, and default or meet other specified conditions prior to the end of the second following fiscal year. The U.S. Department of Education releases official cohort default rates once per year. Information about OSU’s most recent 3-year cohort default rate is available from the U.S. Department of Education at the:College Navigator site listing for Oklahoma State University Repayment Policy: The federal government mandates that students who withdraw from all classes may only keep the financial aid (federal Title IV grant and loan assistance) they have “earned” up to the time of withdrawal. Funds that were disbursed in excess of the earned amount must be returned by OSU and/or the student to the federal government. OSU Return to Title IV (Repayment) Policy Net Price Calculator This calculator is intended to provide estimated net price information (defined as estimated cost of attendance — including tuition and required fees, books and supplies, room and board (meals), and other related expenses — minus estimated grant and scholarship aid) to current and prospective undergraduate students and their families based on what similar students paid in a previous year. Institutional information Descriptions of Academic Programs, Degree Offerings, Instructional Facilities and Labs and Instructional Personnel: Information on OSU’s academic programs, degree offerings, instructional, laboratory, and other physical plant facilities that relate to the academic program, and faculty and other instructional personnel facilities are available from the various departments and colleges and from the online OSU Catalog in the Registrar’s Office. You can also find detailed information regarding programs in each academic college. Facilities and Services for Disabled Students: Student Accessibility Services (SAS) is committed to providing a community that ensures full participation for students. SAS provides assistance to students that will facilitate their independence and academic progress. For information on facilities and services for disabled students, contact OSU Student Accessibility Services, 155 UHS, 1202 W Farm Rd, Stillwater OK 74078, Tel: 405-744-7116 (Voice/TTY), (405) 571-9765 (VideoPhone | Sorenson). Accreditation Information: OSU is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC), which may be reached at 230 S. LaSalle Street, Suite 7-500, Chicago, IL 60604-1413, phone (800) 621-7440. Details of accreditation by academic program can be found in the OSU Catalog, and on the OSU Accreditation site. The Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education is the state agency that handles complaints once a student has exhausted the institution's complaint and appeal process. Copyright Infringement Policies: The unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may subject students to civil and criminal liabilities. You can find information about OSU’s polices on the use of copyright material, including peer-to-peer file sharing in the Terms of Service. Information and resources to ensure the security of data is available from the OSU Department of Information Technology. Voter Registration: The Oklahoma State Election Board provides voter information. Nonresident students may find voter information about their specific states through the U.S. Election Assistance Commission. Teacher Preparation Program Report: Information regarding the annual Teacher Preparation Program Report (Title II Report) is available from the OSU College of Education Professional Education Unit, 325 Willard Hall, Stillwater, OK 74078. Tel: (405)744-6252. Transfer Credit Policies: Policies related to transfer of credit earned at another institution is available in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, and in the OSU Catalog. Textbook Information: To the maximum extent practicable, the institution must disclose on its internet course schedule used for preregistration and registration purposes, the International Standard Book Number (ISBN) and retail price information of required and recommended textbooks and supplemental materials for each course listed. To access this information at OSU, go to the OSU Textbook site. The textbook information is displayed by term and course. Student Body Diversity: For information about the diversity of the OSU student body, contact OSU Institutional Research and Information Management. Employment of Graduates: Information on types of employment obtained by graduates of OSU’s degree programs is available from the OSU Office of Career Services. Types of Graduate and Professional Education in Which the Institution’s Graduates Enroll: Available information about the types of graduate work and professional schools in which OSU graduates enroll can be found in the OSU Alumni Survey Report provided annually by OSU Office of Assessment and Testing, 105 UAT Building, Stillwater, OK 74078. Tel: 405-744-6687. Retention Rates and Completion/Graduation Rates: Retention & Graduation Rates This information must be provided to student athletes, their parents, high school coaches, and guidance counselors when an athletically-related student aid offer is made. The NCAA provides this information directly to high schools. For information, contact the OSU Athletic Department Compliance Office, Gallagher-Iba Arena, Stillwater, OK 74078. Tel: 405-744-7862. Athletic Program Participation and Financial Support: The annual Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act Report contains participation rates, financial support, and other information on men’s and women’s intercollegiate athletic programs. For information, contact the OSU Athletic Department Compliance Office, Gallagher-Iba Arena, Stillwater, OK 74078. Tel: 405-744-7862. Health & safety Campus security report and crime statistics: The federal Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act requires colleges and universities to provide information on security policies and procedures and specific statistics for criminal incidents, arrests, and disciplinary referrals to students and employees, and to make the information available to prospective students and employees upon request. The Annual OSU Security Report includes detailed information on emergency services, safety tips, University policies and state laws, and additional support services, fire safety in on-campus housing, confidential crime reporting, missing student notification policy, and timely warning reports. The report also includes crime statistics for the most recent three calendar years. A daily crime log/activity summary, and a link to the Oklahoma Sex and Violent Crime Offender Registry, is also available on the OSU Police Department's website. Information for Crime Victims About Disciplinary Proceedings: Victims are entitled to know about the results of proceedings involving alleged crimes of violence or non-forcible sex offenses when they request this information in writing from the University, as defined by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Related policies and procedures can be found in the OSU Student Code of Conduct. Fire safety report and fire log Institutions are required to keep a fire log that states the nature of the fire, date, time, and general location of each fire in on-campus student housing facilities. OSU complies with this rule by including all fire-related incidents in the Annual OSU Security Report. Emergency Response and Evacuation Procedures: In the event of a campus emergency, OSU may use a variety of tools to communicate to the campus and the public. Information about emergency response and evacuation procedures is available from the Campus Safety website. Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention Program: The OSU Policy for all Students and Employees Regarding the Drug-Free School and Communities Act includes a description of standards of conduct, legal sanctions, health risks, and resources for treatment, rehabilitation or re-entry. The Drug-Free Workplace Act requires federal contractors and grantees to certify that they will provide a drug-free workplace. OSU has an associated policy. Vaccination Policy: OSU’s policies on immunizations for new students can be found on the University Health Services website. Contact information Admitting offices: Office of Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union, Stillwater, OK 74078 Tel: (405) 744-5358 or 800-233-5019, ext. 1 Web: Admissions Email: admissions@okstate.edu Graduate College 202 Whitehurst, Stillwater, OK 74078 Tel: 405-744-6368 Web: Graduate College Email: grad-i@okstate.edu College of Veterinary Medicine 112 McElroy Hall, Stillwater, OK 74078 Web: CVHS Tel: 405-744-6961 Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©