Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Terms of Service Terms of Service 1. Your Acceptance. A. Welcome to the Internet sites of OSU("OSU"). "OSU Sites" include okstate.edu and ostate.tv and other sites on which these terms of use are posted. B. PLEASE READ THESE TERMS OF USE CAREFULLY BEFORE USING ANY OSU SITE. By using or visiting any OSU Site you signify your agreement to these terms and conditions (the “Terms of Service”). If you do not agree to any of these terms, you may not use the Service. C. You should periodically review the most up-to-date version of Terms of Service. OSU may modify or revise these Terms of Service and policies at any time, and you agree to be bound by such modifications or revisions.Nothing in these Terms of Service shall be deemed to confer any third-party rights or benefits. 2. Service. A. These Terms of Service apply to all users of OSU Sites, including users who are also contributors of Content on the Service. “Content” includes the text, software, scripts, graphics, photos, sounds, music, videos, audio visual combinations, interactive features and other materials you may view on, access through, or contribute to the Service.The Service includes all aspects of OSU Sites including but not limited to all products, sharing functions, uploading programs and interactivity features (comments and ratings). B. The Service may contain links to third party websites that are not owned or controlled by OSU. OSU has no control over, and assumes no responsibility for the content, privacy policies, or practices of any third party websites. In addition, OSU will not and cannot censor or edit the content of any third-party site. By using the Service, you expressly relieve OSU, its governing board, officers, agents, and employees from any and all liability arising from your use of any third-party website. C. Accordingly, we encourage you to be aware when you leave the Service and to read the terms and conditions and privacy policy of each other website that you visit. 3. Disclaimer of Warranties. The use of this website is solely at your own risk. This website is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. OSU expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind with respect to this website whether express or implied, including, without limitation, implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. OSU expressly disclaims any responsibility for the actions of any other user of this website. Some states do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so the above exclusions may not apply to you. OSU makes no warranty that this website will meet your requirements, or will be uninterrupted, timely, secure, current, accurate, complete or error-free or that the results that may be obtained by use of the site will be accurate or reliable. You understand and acknowledge that your sole and exclusive remedy with respect to any defect in or dissatisfaction with the site is to cease to use this website. You may have other rights which may vary from state to state. 4. Exclusions and Limitation of Liability. You expressly understand and Agree that OSU shall not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or exemplary damages, including without limitation, damages for loss of profits, goodwill, use, data loss, or other losses (even if advised of the possibility of such damages) resulting from any matter related to your use of this website. 5. Intellectual Property. This website and its contents are owned by OSU or third parties and are protected by law, including but not limited to copyright and trademark law. Certain content, such as copyrighted materials and trademarks, are used by permission of third parties. Except as allowed by law (such as fair use) or as expressly permitted in connection with specific content, this website and its contents may not be reproduced, modified, distributed, displayed, performed, or used in any way without the prior written permission of OSU or the third-party owner. 6. Indemnity. To the extent permitted by applicable law, you agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless OSU, its governing board, officers, agents, and employees, from and against any and all claims, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities, costs or debt, and expenses (including but not limited to attorney’s fees) arising from: (i) your use of and access to the Service; (ii) your violation of any term of these Terms of Service; (iii) your violation of any third party right, including without limitation any copyright, property, or privacy right; or (iv) any claim that your Content caused damage to a third party. This defense and indemnification obligation will survive these Terms of Service and your use of the Service. 7. Miscellaneous These Website Terms and Conditions of Use constitute the entire agreement between you and OSU relating to this website. There is no agency, partnership or joint venture relationship between any user and OSU arising solely through the use of this website. These Website Terms and Conditions of Use are binding upon your successors, assigns, heirs and executors. If any provision of these Website Terms and Conditions of Use is found to be invalid by any court having competent jurisdiction, the invalidity of such provision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of these Website Terms and Conditions of Use, which shall remain in full force and effect. The failure of OSU to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Website Terms and Conditions of Use shall not constitute a waiver of such right or condition. Any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to the website or these Website Terms and Conditions of Use must be filed within one year after such claim or cause of action arose. The section titles of these Website Terms and Conditions of Use are merely for convenience and will not have any effect on the substantive meaning of this agreement. 8. Jurisdiction and Venue. This Agreement and the relationship between you and OSU will be governed by the laws of the State of Oklahoma, without respect to its conflict of law provisions. You agree that venue with respect to any dispute between you and OSU will rest exclusively in the state court located in Payne County, Oklahoma or the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma 9. Reporting Copyright Violations. Pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DCMA”) of 1998, U.S.C. 512 (c)(2), OSU has a DMCA Registered Agent for notice of alleged DMCA copyright infringement. OSU will promptly remove videos if properly notified that the materials infringe a third party’s copyright. If you believe that your work has been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, please provide a written statement including the following information: (i) A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed; (ii) Identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site; (iii) Identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material; (iv) Information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail address at which the complaining party may be contacted; (v) A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; (vi) A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. You may send this information to Gary Shutt, 413 Whitehurst Hall, Stillwater, OK 74078 or by e-mail at gary.shutt@okstate.edu. For more information on the DMCA, visit www.copyright.gov. 10. Privacy. Please see our privacy notice. 11. Termination. OSU may block, suspend, or terminate your use of the website at any time for any reason. Reasons OSU might do so include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) your breach of this agreement; (b) OSU is unable to verify or authenticate any information you provide to us; or (c) OSU believes that your actions could cause financial loss or legal liability to OSU, OStateTV, or other users of this website; (d) routine network maintenance affecting all users; or (e) your use of this website or service in a manner that violates the law or OSU policies. 12. Contact Information. If you have questions about these Website Terms and Conditions of Use, you should contact OSU, OStateTV or the service area (internal or external to OSU) which publishes the website. Many websites will have a contact link. 13. Accessibility. Web Accessibility All Web content and electronic publications, to the extent feasible, should be made accessible to people with disabilities. If accessibility is not feasible, the information should be available by alternative means. University web sites may be subject to the State of Oklahoma HB2197; Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities Act; and University non-discrimination policies. Web account holders are responsible for verifying that their pages meet all university requirements including accessibility guidelines. Additional information on HB2197 can be found at https://www.okabletech.org/guide-to-all-services/ict-accessibility/resources-information-technology-accessibility/ Section 508 and HB2197 are only a minimum standard for accessibility and Web pages. Developers are encouraged to go beyond the minimum whenever possible. The OSU Department of Brand Management is the central point of contact for Web-related questions: news@okstate.edu or (405) 744-6260. If you are a student of Oklahoma State University campus in Stillwater please contact student disabilities services for more accommodations or questions about accessibility for OSU’s website: email; accessibility@okstate.edu or (405) 744-7116. If you are an employee of Oklahoma State University campus in Stillwater please contact either your department’s Human Resources for accessibility accommodations. For web content related questions contact the OSU Department of Brand Management: news@okstate.edu or (405) 744-6260. Accessing OSU Website Access to our site is permitted on a temporary or continuous basis, and we reserve the right to withdraw or amend the websites we provide on our site with or without notice. Users may have to use a login wherever necessary on our website. These users must either students, faculty or staff in order to login to various webpages. We will not be liable if for any reason our site is unavailable at any time or for any period due to detailed maintenance, outages, or discontinued sites. It's possible to increase (or even decrease) the size of all the text on the pages of most websites. You can do this by using the font size controls integrated in your web browser. Web browsers all do this differently, but in general you should look at the options in the browser's 'View' menu, failing which, consult your browser's Help documentation. Here are some specific instructions for some of the more popular browsers. Internet Explorer Go to the “tools” menu, continue and select “Zoom”, and select your desired setting. The default is 125%. Alternatively, if you have a mouse with a wheel you can hold the CTRL key on your keyboard whilst scrolling up or down with the wheel to alter the text size. Firefox (Mac and PC) Go to the menu and either click the (+) to Increase Text Size or (-) or Decrease Text Size, or alternatively you can use the CTRL key with the plus or minus to increase or decrease the size. Safari (Mac and PC) Go the settings button and enable menu bar, then go to “view” and use the 'Make Text Bigger' and 'Make Text Smaller' menu items. Alternatively you can use the option key with + or - to increase or decrease the text size. Standards Compliance Compliant websites work on the widest range of platforms and maximize potential readership. Here are the standards to which we adhere: All pages on this site which are controlled directly by the site’s web managers. All pages on this site are Section 508 compliant or working towards becoming 508 compliant, fulfilling all of the U.S. Federal Government Section 508 Guidelines. All pages on this site are WCAG 2.0 Level AA compliant or working towards being WCAG 2.0 Level AA compliant, fulfilling all priority 1 & 2 guidelines of the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. All pages on this site use structured semantic markup. <h1> elements are used for main titles, <h4> tags for subtitles. Websites must be navigable by means of various screen readers or low vision software. Home Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions requirements Application steps Essays Essay questions Essay tips Creative supplement Leadership & involvement resume Tips for applying Important dates & deadlines Application fee Admitted students' next steps Credit by exam College credit transfer guides Transfers Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps College credit transfer guides The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events OSU Transfer Pass/No Pass International students Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Online degrees Concurrent Admissions requirements Application steps Readmission Admissions requirements Application steps Military leave of absence Non-Degree seekers Undocumented students High school counselors Submitting electronic transcripts OSU admissions publications Residency status Campus tours & events Daily tours Saturday tours Transfer tours OSU Up Close Scholars Day Admitted Student Day Junior Day Orange Fridays Inspire Orange Conference Group tours GEAR UP Meet our tour guides Videos from current students Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost of attendance Undergraduate costs In-state costs In-state cost estimates Previous year in-state cost estimates Out-of-state costs Previous year out-of-state costs International costs Graduate costs Veterinary Medicine costs Adjustment to cost of attendance Cost-cutting ideas Financial aid process Apply for aid Award notifications Accepting aid Receive aid (disbursement) Changes to aid Award terms and conditions Enrollment update form Scholarships & grants Freshman scholarships In-state scholarships In-state Automatic Qualifiers In-state Institutional Nominee In-state National Merit Scholar Oklahoma State Scholars Society Out-of-state scholarships Out-of-State Institutional Nominee Out-of-State National Merit International scholarships Transfer scholarships Current undergraduate scholarships Outside scholarships Grants Oklahoma's Promise Teach Grant Cowboy Covenant Work & loans Student employment & work study Loans Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent Plus Loan Federal Direct Graduate Plus Loan Health Professions Loan Program Private loans Short Term Emergency Loans Student Loan Code of Conduct Estimate your expenses Topics A-Z Cost & aid A-Z Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions 2019-2020 Tuition waiver scholarship important information Public disclosures for CARES Act Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students for Oklahoma State University 2021-2022 in-state scholarship chart Public disclosures for CARES Act Institutional Funds Apply Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©