Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Scholarships and Financial Aid Financial Aid Process - Start2Finish Accepting Aid Financial Aid Process - Start2Finish Apply for aid Award notifications Accepting aid Receive aid (disbursement) Changes to aid Award terms and conditions Enrollment update form Contact Scholarships and Financial Aid 119 Student Union Office Hours: Monday-Friday 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. OSU School Code: 003170 Phone: 405.744.6604 Fax: 405.744.6438 finaid@okstate.edu Accept aid Go to my.okstate.edu and sign in using your OSU email address and O-Key password. Click on the "Self-Service" icon and then on the "Financial Aid" tab. At the Financial Aid main menu, click on "Award Offer." You will select "2022-2023 Award Year" from the drop-down menu in the upper right-hand corner. After reviewing your award offers and making the decision to accept or decline your awards, you will click on "Submit". The "Terms and Conditions" will appear, carefully review that information, which includes an explanation of how we determined your eligibility and important information you need to know as an aid recipient. You will then acknowledge that you read the Terms and Conditions and click on "Accept Award". If you have any questions or concerns about the terms and conditions, please contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid before submitting your award acceptance. Additional info about accepting awards online You may accept or decline your award by using the drop-down menu under Take Action. Most awards include information when you click on the type of aid. In some cases, the award name is a link to additional information. Read the information before you accept or decline each award. You may accept any part of a Federal Work-Study or student loan offer by typing the revised amount once you choose Modify under Take Action. If the award is offered for both fall and spring, accepting a partial amount will be divided equally between fall and spring. If you are offered a Subsidized Stafford Loan, you must accept all of it before you can accept the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan. Corrections cannot be made online. To make corrections to your award after you have submitted it online, you must either email a request to the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid or submit a written request. Emailed requests must come from your OSU email address. If you are not sure whether you want to accept an award, it is better to accept it now and make changes later, so you have time to carefully plan for the coming year. Because funds are limited, if you decline a certain award now, we may not be able to reinstate it later. Be sure to scroll to the bottom of the page and click the "Submit" button when you've made your decisions. The "Terms and Conditions" will pop up once you click on the "Submit" button. Carefully review that information, which includes an explanation of how we determined your eligibility and important information you need to know as an aid recipient. You must review this before submitting your award decisions. If you have any questions or concerns about the terms and conditions, please contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid before submitting your award acceptance. Types of aid that don't need to be accepted online Certain types of aid have already been accepted if they were awarded to you: Federal Pell Grant Oklahoma Tuition Aid Grant (this will show as an offer until we receive the funding from the state on a semester basis) Oklahoma's Promise Cowboy Covenant Certain types of aid cannot be accepted online: Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan: a parent must apply separately at studentaid.gov Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan: a student must apply separately on studentaid.gov Some scholarships cannot be accepted online, and instead, you may have been mailed information with an acceptance form for you to return. Reporting other scholarships and awards If you'll receive other awards from agencies/organizations other than OSU (or OTAG/Oklahoma's Promise), please notify us by going to the "Award Offer" tab in the Financial Aid section in my.okstate.edu. You will find a button for "Add/View Resource" under the Additional Payment Options. You only need to complete the Outside Resources section of the page if you have awards to report; you don't need to enter zero if you're not reporting awards. If you do add resources, make sure to click on the Submit button for us to be able to review those resources. Check your OSU email and the OSU student portal regularly OSU provides an official email address to all admitted students, and we will send all official emails to that address. Be sure you've activated your OSU email address and remember to check it at least once a week. You should also plan to check your financial aid status and awards weekly by going to the OSU Portal, as awards are made on an ongoing basis throughout the fall and spring. NEXT: RECEIVE AID Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©