Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost of attendance Undergraduate costs In-state costs In-state cost estimates Previous year in-state cost estimates Out-of-state costs Previous year out-of-state costs International costs previous-year-cost Graduate costs Veterinary Medicine costs Adjustment to cost of attendance Cost-cutting ideas Financial aid process Apply for aid Award notifications Accepting aid Receive aid (disbursement) Changes to aid Award terms and conditions Enrollment update form Scholarships & grants Freshman scholarships In-state scholarships In-state Automatic Qualifiers In-state Institutional Nominee In-state National Merit Scholar Oklahoma State Scholars Society Out-of-state scholarships Out-of-State Institutional Nominee Out-of-State National Merit International scholarships Transfer scholarships Current undergraduate scholarships Outside scholarships Grants Oklahoma's Promise Teach Grant Cowboy Covenant Work & loans Student employment & work study Loans Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent Plus Loan Federal Direct Graduate Plus Loan Health Professions Loan Program Private loans Short Term Emergency Loans Student Loan Code of Conduct Estimate your expenses Topics A-Z Cost & aid A-Z Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions 2019-2020 Tuition waiver scholarship important information Public disclosures for CARES Act Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students for Oklahoma State University 2021-2022 in-state scholarship chart Public disclosures for CARES Act Institutional Funds Contact Scholarships and Financial Aid 119 Student Union Office Hours: Monday-Friday 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. OSU School Code: 003170 Phone: 405.744.6604 Fax: 405.744.6438 finaid@okstate.edu Cost of Attendance The numbers in these tables are estimates, not necessarily the amount you will end up paying. The actual cost of attending OSU varies based on your program of study, residency status, housing and meal choices, transportation and other expenses, and the financial aid you'll receive. Use our College Cost Worksheet to make a plan that fits for you. Estimated Costs Undergraduate In-state students 2022-2023 2021-2022 Out-of-state students 2022-2023 2021-2022 International undergraduate students 2022-2023 2021-2022 Graduate 2021-2022 2020-2021 Veterinary Medicine 2021-2022 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What is Cost of Attendance (COA)? Cost of attendance (COA) is the total, average amount of money it will reasonably cost a student to attend OSU during one school year (fall and spring semesters). Students are grouped in COA categories based on: Residency status (in-state or out-of-state tuition); Type of academic program (undergraduate, graduate or veterinary medicine); Housing status (on/off campus or with parents); and Number of hours enrolled Your cost of attendance is used to determine eligibility for financial aid awards, so you can receive enough aid to fund your education. Our goal is to help you meet your COA at OSU. What expenses are included in cost of attendance? Your COA usually includes these components: Tuition and fees, Housing and meals, Books and supplies, Travel/transportation, and Miscellaneous expenses (clothing, laundry, personal hygiene, recreation, etc.) How do you determine what "average expenses" are? Tuition and fees are based on official OSU tuition and fee rates set each year. The other components of your cost of attendance—housing and meals, books and supplies, travel/transportation, and miscellaneous expenses—are calculated based on our research. Since cost of attendance is used to determine eligibility for federal financial aid, federal laws govern how we determine these numbers for our institution. In general, the COA is constructed so that financial aid recipients can live comfortably (but not luxuriously) while attending OSU. How can I find out what my COA is? You can view the COA that is being used to figure your own financial aid eligibility in MyOkstate. After you log in, click on Estimated Cost and Enrollment Information under the Financial Aid section. How can I cut costs? While we establish a COA for each student, you may be able to find ways to reduce some costs and save money. Especially when it comes to the amount of loan debt you accept to pay for your education, the lower the better. Our financial literacy information has tips for cost-cutting, as well as tools to help you estimate your expenses and create a budget. What if I think my personal costs are in excess of the average COA? If you're unable to pay your bills even with your financial aid for the current school year, you can request that the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid increase your COA. If you qualify for an increase, it could make you eligible for additional financial aid. However, it will most likely be in the form of a loan that must be paid back. Also, if you have already received the maximum Direct Subsidized and/or Unsubsidized Loans for your current class level, you cannot receive more in those programs even if your COA increases. If you are a dependent student, your parent could become eligible for an additional Parent Loan amount. See the circumstances that qualify for an adjustment to cost of attendance. I'm living off-campus now, instead of on-campus. Does that make any difference? While some types of housing may be cheaper than others, on campus or off doesn't make a difference in terms of your financial aid eligibility, because OSU averages the cost of on- and off-campus housing (including fraternity/sorority housing) together to determine the “housing and meals” component of COA. However, it does make a difference for students who live with a parent. If you change your housing status from “with parent” to either “on campus” or “off campus,” or vice versa, you are obligated to notify the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid so the correct COA can be used to determine your continued financial aid eligibility. What expenses might I have that cannot be included? Housing and meals is an allowance only for periods of enrollment (fall, spring, and/or summer semesters). Students who have dependents, such as a spouse or children, cannot include the housing and meals costs of those dependents in the housing and meals allowance. These costs are actually taken into account when the Expected Family Contribution is calculated off the results of a student's FAFSA. Car payments cannot be included, because purchase costs of a vehicle (which would include car loan payments) are specifically prohibited from being included in the COA. (An allowance for car insurance and maintenance is provided for in the Travel/ Transportation component of the COA.) Refundable deposits for housing or utilities cannot be included, nor can debt on a credit card, job search costs or Greek membership fees and associated costs. This list is not comprehensive; please contact the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid if you're not sure whether some of your educational costs are included in the components described above. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©