Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions International Freshman Freshman International Application Steps Freshman Admission requirements Application steps Become an OSU Cowboy Get MailVirtual TourApply Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions219 Student Union | Stillwater, OK 74078405-744-5358international@okstate.edu Application steps There are six important steps in the application process, and each one must be completed to begin your journey at OSU. Just remember, your application for admission is also your application for scholarships. To process your application quickly, we suggest that you complete the application online. You can log back into your account and finish at a later time. Apply Complete the online application using your full name that exactly matches your passport. You are always able to log back in to your account to finish if you are disrupted along the way. You can also print the application, fill it out and mail or deliver it to our office at Undergraduate Admissions, 219 Student Union, Stillwater, OK 74078. Pay application fee The OSU international application fee is $90 and nonrefundable. It must be paid before your application can be processed. You may pay online with a VISA or Mastercard. Send us a copy of the identification page in your passport Submit a copy of the identification page in your passport by email to international@okstate.edu. Send us your English proficiency test scores (iBT TOEFL 61+ or IELTS 5.5+ or Duolingo* 85+) All international applicants must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by submitting IELTS Academic (International English Language Testing System) or TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) exam scores. Please note that the following English proficiency requirements pertain to undergraduate students only. Graduate applicants should consult Graduate College. *The current COVID-19 outbreak has resulted in widespread English testing center closures in impacted regions. In response to this global crisis, OSU will now temporarily accept Duolingo English Test (DET) results from spring and fall 2022 applicants who are unable to take the TOEFL or IELTS due to exam cancellations. Please contact us with any other questions or concerns regarding testing options at international@okstate.edu. Copies of official test scores are accepted as long as they can be verified by an admissions official on the testing website. Send us copies of your test scores by email to international@okstate.edu. If your score report cannot be verified online, your application will not move forward in the process until we receive your official scores directly from the testing agency. TOEFL scores can be sent using DI code: 6546. Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 * OSU offers conditional admission to students who meet all admission requirements except the English language proficiency requirement. * The English language proficiency requirement may be waived if you have graduated from an accredited high school where English is the primary language of instruction in a country where English is the primary language. This is determined based on information from your application and transcripts. * English language proficiency requirement will be waived for international students who have or will have attended English-speaking high schools located in the U.S. for 3 or more years. * Official TOEFL and IELTS Academic exam scores are valid for two years from the date of the original exam. If your scores are more than two years old, you will need to take a new exam to be considered for admission. * According to policy, results of the TOEFL taken at international testing centers and special testing centers will be accepted. Results of the TOEFL taken at institutional testing centers will only be accepted by the administering institution. Send us your transcripts Submit your high school transcript(s). If you have earned college-level credits, you must submit a college transcript from each institution attended as well. All transcripts must be issued by the school, in the original language; English translations are also required if the official transcript is not in English. Translations must be word-for-word, in the same format as the original, and typed on the school letterhead stationery, or on business stationery signed by a translator attesting to familiarity with the foreign language. Please note that we do not accept credential evaluations from third-party services. International transcripts are considered official if they are submitted to our office in ONE of the following formats: The transcript is submitted in an envelope that is sealed and stamped by your school or the Department of Education in your home country. Official transcripts can be mailed directly from your institution or hand-delivered in a sealed envelope prior to enrollment at OSU. See examples of properly sealed envelopes for official transcripts. The transcript is sent to our office electronically at international@okstate.edu from your school or school representative via their official email account or transcript e-service. The transcript is sent to our office electronically at international@okstate.edu from your embassy or home government. Scanned or photo copies of transcripts from international institutions are accepted for admission purposes ONLY. You can send us copies of your transcripts by email to international@okstate.edu. In order to avoid delays in enrollment, applicants who are offered admission to OSU must submit official transcripts prior to enrollment at OSU. Please note that official transcripts are required for admission purposes and transfer credit evaluation for any coursework completed in the United States. If you plan to send the official transcripts to our office by mail, make sure that the documents be sent to the following address: Undergraduate Admissions 219 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 Send us your financial guarantee documentation Complete your financial guarantee form and submit it by email to international@okstate.edu. International students may submit unofficial documents for admission consideration, but students must provide an original copy of all documents prior to enrollment. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©