Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Campus COVID Plan and Guidelines Campus COVID Plan and Guidelines For our love of OSU Let's protect each other Do it for the cowboy family. Getting vaccinated, combined with wearing masks, is our best way to combat the COVID-19 virus and keep us all enjoying the semester and events we are all looking forward to. Schedule your vaccine(s) COVID-19 testing Oklahoma State University is offering two C0VID-19 test options for students and employees at University Health Services (UHS) on the main Stillwater campus. BinaxNOW antigen testing is done through the drive-thru located on the east side of the building. These are rapid tests that are administered as a nasal swab. Oral swab tests, which are less invasive than nasal swab tests, can be administered inside the clinic. To make an appointment, patients should call 405-744-7665 or login to their Patient Portal to schedule an appointment by 5 p.m. the day before they wish to be scheduled, making sure to note they are requesting testing on the Stillwater campus. Mask guidelines OSU encourages the use of masks indoors in public. Masks reduce the risk of being infected and possibly spreading it to others. Read the latest CDC guidelines. Campus COVID plan Protecting the health and wellbeing of our fellow Cowboys in the face of COVID-19 has never been more critical. We urge everyone to take personal responsibility in following recommended guidelines, as only through a collective, cooperative effort can we help protect our campus community. View plan details COVID-19 dashboard OSU launched an online dashboard to track COVID-19 testing and vaccination data on the Stillwater campus during the pandemic. Biweekly dashboard updates have resumed for the 2021-2022 academic year. View dashboard University announcements OSU leadership and departments are providing regular email updates to students and employees regarding pandemic protocols and response. Note: If you are an OSU Stillwater/Tulsa employee or student and are not receiving university email announcements, email helpdesk@okstate.edu Announcement archive Frequently asked questions and other resources We’ve compiled a list of helpful answers to some of the most frequently asked questions regarding the pandemic including university operations, health concerns and the CARES Act. Frequently asked questions Do you have questions about COVID-19 and what OSU is doing to protect the campus community? While we are working to answer all emails personally in a timely manner, we wanted to share answers to some of the most frequently asked questions. Student and parent resources We've compiled helpful resources and information to assist students with this transition. Faculty and staff resources In order to support our employees during this time, we've developed this faq and resources page specifically for our faculty and staff. Contact information Contact us Have a question? Our team is prepared to help and assist with issues related to COVID-19. Reach out to COVID19@okstate.edu and administration will respond to your questions as soon as possible. Oklahoma State Department of Health We are working with the Oklahoma State Department of Health to inform our pandemic response. For more information, contact the Coronavirus Call Center at 877-215-8336 or click the link below. Learn more OSU Pandemic Response Team The OSU COVID-19 Pandemic Response Team meets weekly to navigate the rapidly changing landscape of the pandemic. Led by Senior Vice President for Health Affairs Dr. Johnny Stephens, the team monitors guidance from the CDC, from state and local health authorities and uses a variety of data points and metrics so our campus can remain nimble in its response. View team Home Undergraduate Admissions Freshmen Admissions requirements Application steps Essays Essay questions Essay tips Creative supplement Leadership & involvement resume Tips for applying Important dates & deadlines Application fee Admitted students' next steps Credit by exam College credit transfer guides Transfers Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps College credit transfer guides The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events OSU Transfer Pass/No Pass International students Freshmen Admission requirements Application steps Transfer Admission requirements Application steps Readmission Admission requirements Application steps Important dates & deadlines Admitted students' next steps About OSU Hear from OSU international students Living on campus Student Life Traditions OSU History Edmon Low Library OSU Student Union The Cowboy Code Cost information previous-year-cost eShipGlobal Official documents Financial guarantee Student visa International Students & Scholars Life at OSU - Oklahoma State University Online degrees Concurrent Admissions requirements Application steps Readmission Admissions requirements Application steps Military leave of absence Non-Degree seekers Undocumented students High school counselors Submitting electronic transcripts OSU admissions publications Residency status Campus tours & events Daily tours Saturday tours Transfer tours OSU Up Close Scholars Day Admitted Student Day Junior Day Orange Fridays Inspire Orange Conference Group tours GEAR UP Meet our tour guides Videos from current students Scholarships and Financial Aid Cost of attendance Undergraduate costs In-state costs In-state cost estimates Previous year in-state cost estimates Out-of-state costs Previous year out-of-state costs International costs Graduate costs Veterinary Medicine costs Adjustment to cost of attendance Cost-cutting ideas Financial aid process Apply for aid Award notifications Accepting aid Receive aid (disbursement) Changes to aid Award terms and conditions Enrollment update form Scholarships & grants Freshman scholarships In-state scholarships In-state Automatic Qualifiers In-state Institutional Nominee In-state National Merit Scholar Oklahoma State Scholars Society Out-of-state scholarships Out-of-State Institutional Nominee Out-of-State National Merit International scholarships Transfer scholarships Current undergraduate scholarships Outside scholarships Grants Oklahoma's Promise Teach Grant Cowboy Covenant Work & loans Student employment & work study Loans Federal Direct Subsidized Loan Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan Federal Direct Parent Plus Loan Federal Direct Graduate Plus Loan Health Professions Loan Program Private loans Short Term Emergency Loans Student Loan Code of Conduct Estimate your expenses Topics A-Z Cost & aid A-Z Privacy Consumer information Consumer information Information sheets COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions 2019-2020 Tuition waiver scholarship important information Public disclosures for CARES Act Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students for Oklahoma State University 2021-2022 in-state scholarship chart Public disclosures for CARES Act Institutional Funds Apply Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©