Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Campus COVID Plan and Guidelines Student Support Resources and tips to help you succeed In this extraordinary time we know you may be experiencing a lot of emotions and want you to feel supported. The Cowboy family is more important than ever and we will get through this together. Let's do this, Cowboys. When faced with a challenge, Cowboys come together. We can support one another by following CDC guidelines, which include wearing a mask indoors regardless of vaccination status. We are committed to supporting you academically, socially and in all aspects of your wellness. Let’s take care of each other. And as the Cowboy Code says, we end the day knowing we gave it everything we had. Cowboy Code Resources to help you succeed in your classesLike health and safety, your academic success is a top priority for OSU faculty and staff. We have resources available to help you succeed in class — whether that’s in-person or online. We encourage you to use these resources and to contact faculty directly with any questions. Resources for Learning Online We strongly encourage you to set up notifications by text message, especially for “announcements.” This is the easiest way for your instructors to get the most important information to you. Your instructors will not see the cell number you provide to Canvas. Resources for Learning Online LASSO Services and Tutoring We encourage you to seek out tutoring and success coaching resources. Please visit the LASSO website for more information and instructions. Once you sign up, you will receive an appointment reminder email with your specific tutoring session information. Other tutoring options may also still be available; please check with your individual department or college for details. LASSO Services and Tutoring OSU Writing Center Need writing support or tutoring? The OSU Writing Center will offer online sessions to assist with your courses. You can make an appointment online and learn more at their website. OSU Writing Center Math Learning Success Center The MLSC will offer online tutoring through Discord during normal operating hours. Discord is an established chatting platform where tutors and students can interact through voice communication, text messages and picture sharing. Math Learning Success Center Supplemental Instruction (SI) Supplemental instruction allows you to work with other students and a course/section facilitator to learn key concepts for some courses. You can access your SI leaders through new course specific SI Canvas Communities. For more information, contact LASSO at 405-744-3309 or lasso@okstate.edu. Supplemental Instruction (SI) Student Services OSU's Department of Information Technology has compiled a helpful list of resources and links for students. Bookmark this page for important links like O-Key, Canvas and more. Information Technology Resources Internet Access OSU is an eduroam WiFi campus. That means students can use their O-Key login on any Eduroam campus to access Wi-Fi. For off-campus students, many communities are offering free or reduced-price resources. Check with your local service providers for options. Some public libraries are providing free Wi-Fi from outside the building, and some cell phone providers are offering free or reduced-price data plans. Internet Access Virtual Labs OSU offers Virtual Labs that allow you to access software you may not have on your personal computer or device. OSU's Virtual Labs have the same software as the IT run computer labs on campus. You can connect to the Virtual Labs from a browser or by installing an application to your computer. IT Virtual Labs Available Stay connected to your academic resources Academic Advising Your academic advisor is available virtually to support and assist you. To “meet” with your advisor, schedule your appointment through the format that you usually use. Your advisor is a resource and will be available for enrollment, academic, or personal concerns that you may have. Find your academic advisor Bursar We understand that due to the circumstances, you may encounter financial difficulties. We are here to help and strongly encourage you to reach out to discuss how we might be of assistance and explore options concerning any outstanding charges. Please make payments online and communicate through the mail, email us or call 405-744-5993. Visit the Bursar site Email the Bursar office Scholarships and Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid can discuss your options with you, including any financial hardships or changes. They have also compiled a list of FAQs. If you haven’t already, we strongly suggest you complete the Free Application for Financial Aid for the 2021-22 academic year. We can help you determine what options are available to you through the university, state and federal government. Contact Scholarships and Financial Aid Library Access the library’s 54 databases, 130,000 e-serials, 3.2 million e-books and other electronic resources online, including the library’s 65 digital collections. Library services and updates Tips for technology success Make sure you have the proper tools to succeed: · Is your computer is up to date and working properly? · Do you have the latest software like Word, Excel and Skype for Business? You can download them from IT's Software Distribution Center using your O-Key credentials. · Check your email often and report suspicious emails. Learn more Additional Support Freshmen The Office of First Year Success financial planning coaches and campus connection coaches are available to work with first year students. We can assist with accessing financial resources if you're facing financial hardship and with connecting to campus resources that will help you succeed with classes online and in person. Visit First Year Success Site OSU-Tulsa Students To provide maximum accessibility to services for our campus community, OSU-Tulsa staff are available to assist you in person and remotely. Visit our resources site for contact information and hours. Visit OSU-Tulsa Resource Site NOC Students OSU students can enroll in courses at NOC Stillwater online. To be cleared for enrollment, apply to NOC and complete the OSU Student Enrollment form at www.noc.edu/apply. To enroll in a math course, upload the NOC/OSU Stillwater Enrollment Permit, which you can obtain from your OSU advisor. View NOC Live Course Availability Campus COVID Plan and Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Latest Announcements Pandemic Response Team Resources for Daily Life in the Midst of COVID-19 Student Resources Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©