Skip to main content Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search the site DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Open menu Close menu Main Menu In this section About OSU Academics UndergraduateAcademics Graduate and ProfessionalEducation OnlinePrograms Admissions UndergraduateAdmissions GraduateAdmissions Cost & Aid Student Life Apply to OSU Current StudentsFaculty/StaffmyOKSTATEDirectory Home Undergraduate Admissions Transfer The Gateway Program Services for Students The Gateway Program Services for students Program costs Gateway Events Contact For more information about the NOC-OSU Gateway Program contact: Office of Admissions Northern Oklahoma College 615 N Monroe, Stillwater, OK, 74078 (580) 628-6900 sherryl.nelson@noc.edu Office of Undergraduate Admissions Oklahoma State University 219 Student Union, Stillwater, OK, 74078 (405) 744-5358 admissions@okstate.edu Services for Students Gateway students benefit from a number of OSU amenities and services including access to the Colvin Recreation Center, tutoring services and Career Services. Transfer and Student Veteran Success Office: 104 North Classroom Phone: 405-744-9737 Email: transferstudentservices@okstate.edu Website: transfer.okstate.edu The Office of Transfer and Student Veteran Success provides a holistic transfer student experience that assists students as they transition into OSU, helps students prepare for a rewarding academic and student experience, and promotes their progress toward graduation and into their desired career field. Transfer and Student Veteran Success will help you in your transition to OSU in the following ways: Provide a transfer and student veteran experience that engages students in the campus community, Stillwater, the nation and the world. Help transfer and student veterans to achieve academic excellence through connecting them to activities and resources that promote research, scholarship and creativity. Ensure transfer and student veteran success through an environment that is supportive, enriches personal growth, encourages excellence and innovation, and prepares students for purposeful careers. Campus Life Office: 060-A Student Union Phone: 405-744-5486 Email: campuslife@okstate.edu Website: lcl.okstate.edu Campus life works with more than 450 student organizations. If you want to get involved on the OSU campus and within the community, Campus Life is the place for you! In addition to working with campus clubs and organizations, Campus Life departments include: Allied Arts Camp Cowboy Office of Fraternity and Sorority Affairs International Students and Scholars Leadership Development Non-Traditional Student Association Student Government Association Student Union Activities Board Service Learning/Volunteer Center Career Services Office: 360 Student Union Phone: 405-744-5253 Email: careers@okstate.edu Website: hireosugrads.com Career Services assists students and alumni with job search activities related to internships and part-time employment while attending college, and full-time, professional employment following graduation. On-campus interviewing is an easy and convenient way to interview with numerous businesses and corporations without leaving campus. On-campus interviews can be an important source of opportunities but should be only one of the 10 suggested strategies for a total job search. Other services include: Resume Referral Posting of Job Vacancies Career Fairs Career Consultants in each college Department of Residential Life Office: Iba Hall Phone: 405-744-5592 Email: reslife@okstate.edu Website reslife.okstate.edu Welcome home! Living on the OSU campus allows students to enjoy hall-sponsored events, intramural sports, and an atmosphere conducive to studying and making life-long friendships. Residential Life has more than 25 residence halls that includes traditional rooms, suites and apartments. University Dining Services meal plans are among the most flexible in the country with more than 30 campus dining options available. They offer a wide variety of options to ensure that you will never go hungry! Department of Wellness Office: 101 Colvin Recreation Center Phone: 405-744-5510 (Colvin Recreation Center) Phone: 405-744-9355 (Seretean Wellness Center) Website: wellness.okstate.edu The Colvin Recreation Center is a 240,000 square-foot facility offering the most current cardio and weight lifting equipment, indoor jogging track, indoor and outdoor pools, 10 basketball/volleyball courts, eight racquetball courts, and a state-of-the-art rock climbing wall. Just bring your student ID to get in on all the fun! Department of Wellness also offers a variety of programming, including fitness classes, intramural sports, adaptive sports, outdoor adventure, and F.I.T. First. Services include: Health screening for students Student training room (with personal trainers) Peer Education on topics such as stress management, nutrition, alcohol education, sexual health, and sleep Office of Multicultural Affairs Office: 240 Student Union Phone: 405-744-5481 Email: oma@okstate.edu Website oma.okstate.edu The Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) is a place for students of different cultures, backgrounds and experiences to come together in an effort to learn more about each other and about themselves. We aim to assist students in achieving academic excellence, developing their personal and professional character, and engaging in the campus and greater community. OMA achieves these goals by offering scholarships, leadership development programs, mentoring opportunities and cultural education programs. Student Union Office: 301 Student Union Phone: 405-744-5231 Email: osuunion@okstate.edu Website: union.okstate.edu Life happens at the OSU Student Union! For more than 50 years, the Student Union has hosted a countless number of students, alumni and visitors with its diverse services, restaurants and retail outlets. And best of all, the Student Union is your one stop shop for all your student needs including: The University Store OSU Office of the Bursar OSU Registrar's Office OSU Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid OSU Office of Undergraduate Admissions There are also countless areas for students to study, grab a quick snack, host group meetings or hang out with friends. So come on over! The Student Union is waiting for you! University Health Services Office: 141 Student Health Center Phone: 405-744-7665 Website uhs.okstate.edu University Health Services (UHS) is an outpatient ambulatory care facility designed to provide cost effective, physician directed health care and health information for personal health care consultation, treatment or intervention. A health fee is included in your mandatory fees each semester which permits access to all of the services available at UHS from the time you register until midnight the day before the next semester begins. There is a small charge, usually $20, to see a physician or physician assistant. Some services at UHS may involve additional charges. Any fees associated with health center services can be charged to your student account. Other services include laboratory and radiology, pharmacy, women's clinic, immunizations, allergy clinic, flight physicals and student insurance. University Counseling Services Office: 320 Student Union Phone: 405-744-5458 Website: ucs.okstate.edu University Counseling Services (UCS) is composed of four departments. Each department works with the student body to ensure student success. The UCS departments include: Alcohol and Substance Abuse Center Reboot Center Student Disability Services Student Counseling Center Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Office: 201 Whitehurst Phone: 405-744-5328 Website: studentaffairs.okstate.edu Student Affairs serves as an advocate and administrative conduit for all students. The Division of Student Affairs provides essential student services (housing, medical care, food service) as well as programs and services to support our Six Pillars of Student Success: academic excellence, leadership development, service and civic engagement, finding purpose, broadening horizons, and wellness. Our office is open and we welcome your questions or concerns at any time! Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©