Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Main menu About Us Leadership Year in Review 2020-2021 Connect with Us News Media Mentions Leadership Blog Strategic Direction University Mission and Vision Technology Roadmap Active Projects Advisory Groups Offerings Policies Join Us Current Openings Working Here Life in Columbus Our Values Our Culture Our People Help IT for Instructors and Staff IT for Students Search form Search Go Breadcrumb navigation Home Offerings Privacy at Ohio State Privacy at Ohio State We value the privacy of everyone who visits, works, supports, and learns at Ohio State. Our Privacy Principles We provide notice that explains how we collect, use and share personal information. We don’t use it for other purposes. We provide and honor choices when collecting personal information for a marketing purpose. We make it easy for individuals to access and request corrections to their personal information. We implement new technologies using privacy-by-design. We secure personal information and investigate reports of unauthorized or inappropriate access to personal information. We create, educate and lead best practices and compliance across our communities. How is personal data collected and used at Ohio State? Our mission is to cultivate our community’s long-standing trust that Ohio State collects, uses and shares personal information transparently and appropriately. Select the statements below to learn more about how personal information is collected, used and shared at the university. Web Privacy Statement Learn more about what data we're collecting, how we're collecting it, and what we're doing with it. Cookie Statement Learn more about cookies and how Ohio State uses them to enhance your web experience. SMS Texting Information Learn more about Ohio State’s SMS texting terms and conditions and do-not-call procedure. EU Considerations Learn how Ohio State is working to comply with the GDPR. How can I help Ohio State protect privacy? Discover more about privacy and what you can do to protect your information as a student, faculty, staff or other associate of Ohio State. We are also looking for university employees to become Privacy Pros to help the university uphold our privacy principles. Learn About Privacy Policies Understand how your personal information is collected, used and shared by Ohio State. Learn About Privacy Principles Learn how to implement Ohio State's privacy practices. Make Choices to Protect Your Privacy Find tips to protect your privacy and personal information. Access Your Records Discover how to access and request corrections to your personal information. Report a Privacy Concern Find how to report unauthorized or inappropriate access to personal information. Employee Privacy and Responsibilities Understand your role and what information is protected or made public. Privacy Pros Get involved in helping Ohio State think about and uphold our privacy principles. Data Privacy Days Share ideas and collaborate with members from across Ohio State at these events. What else is happening with privacy at Ohio State? Find your Privacy Pro: Learn who is your unit's Privacy Pro and contact them with any questions or privacy concerns. Year In Review: Read our 2021 Privacy Program Year in Review to see what we accomplished together last year. Learn about Cybersecurity: The Cybersecurity for You (C4U) awareness platform provides cybersecurity training and awareness on topics that help you in your role at the university and beyond. You'll earn points while learning which can be redeemed for rewards. Office of Technology and Digital Innovation 100 Mount Hall | 1050 Carmack Road | Columbus, Ohio 43210 Phone: 614-688-4357 Email: OTDI@osu.edu Facebook link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Twitter link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation YouTube link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation LinkedIn link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Instagram link for Office of Technology and Digital Innovation Staff Site Accessibility Statement If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, please call the Accessibility Helpline at 614-292-5000. Privacy Statement