Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Today Menu Search Log In Agriculture & Environment Arts Business & Law On Campus Science & Technology Society & Culture Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Newsroom Nebraska Today Nebraska ranked a best value by Princeton Review Nebraska ranked a best value by Princeton Review January 30, 2019 · 2 min read Nebraska ranked a best value by Princeton Review by University Communication and Marketing The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is again featured in The Princeton Review as one of the nation’s best colleges for delivering return on investment to students. Inclusion in the 2019 edition of The Princeton Review’s “Best Value Colleges” is based upon the university’s challenging academics, affordability and strong career prospects for its graduates. “The Princeton Review’s ranking recognizes one of our university’s strengths: providing an outstanding, affordable education to students from Nebraska and beyond,” said Amber Williams, assistant vice chancellor for academic services and enrollment management. “Our students collaborate with their peers and professors to do amazing things even before they graduate, like launching businesses, managing nonprofits and making research discoveries that have never existed before — all for one of the lowest tuition costs in the Big Ten.” Nebraska pairs a practical focus on job placement with rigorous research and the prestige of a Big Ten institution, according to the online profile included with the Jan. 29 announcement of the 209 schools chosen for the edition. More than 650 colleges were evaluated by The Princeton Review. Nebraska was among only 11 institutions to be listed from the Cornhusker State and neighboring states. It was one of nine Big 10 institutions that made the list. The Princeton Review is a tutoring, test preparation and college admissions services company that annually publishes a number of college guides, such as “Colleges That Create Futures.” Its headquarters are in New York City. It is not affiliated with Princeton University. “The Best Value Colleges” was titled “Colleges That Pay You Back” from 2015 to 2018. “Only 7 percent of the nation’s four-year colleges made it into this book,” said Robert Franek, lead author of the publication and editor-in-chief for The Princeton Review. “We salute the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and all our ‘Best Value Colleges.’ They stand out for their outstanding academics and their affordability via generous financial aid to students with need and/or comparatively low sticker prices. Students at these colleges also have access to extraordinary career services from their freshman year on, plus a lifetime of valuable alumni support.” Share Related Links Nebraska profile in "Best Value Colleges" Princeton Review's "Best Value Colleges" publication Tags Princeton Review best value colleges rankings academics campus life students faculty Recent News Mixed signals: Male wolf spiders get luckier following complex courtships 4 days ago Science & Technology 'Bell Affair' making its premiere in D.C. June 2 4 days ago Arts Society & Culture Students gain nonprofit experience through honors, foundry collaboration 4 days ago On Campus Lincoln wins big at National Bass Championship 4 days ago On Campus Interdisciplinary program takes long-range view of visual impairment instruction 4 days ago On Campus Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint 6 days ago On Campus Raikes School student projects solve real-world problems, aid clients 6 days ago Science & Technology On Campus Nebraska’s leading economic indicator continues to rise 6 days ago On Campus Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1217 Q St. Lincoln, NE 68588 US About the UComm News Team Submit a Story Related Links University Communication Athletic Department Communications Office Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.