Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Office of the Chancellor Menu Search Log In Chancellor's Home Ronnie Green Biography Request for Appearance Administration Deans Commissions and Collaboratives Photo Gallery Past Chancellors Our Bold Vision The N|150 Commission N2025 Strategic Plan Journey for Anti-Racism & Racial Equity Documents UNL Strategic Compass Policy Memoranda UNL Bylaws Budget Chancellor Communication State of the University Chancellor's Messages Meditations and Musings Radio Interviews Events & News Installation of the Twentieth Chancellor Appointment of the Twentieth Chancellor News Archive Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Office of the Chancellor COVID 19 - Updates to Face Covering Policies COVID 19 - Updates to Face Covering Policies February 18, 2022 Dear students, faculty and staff: Earlier today, the Lincoln-Lancaster County Health Department announced it will no longer require face masks indoors beginning at midnight tonight. At that time, UNL will also no longer broadly require face masks inside our campus buildings. They are still encouraged indoors, especially if it’s not possible to socially distance, but they are not required. However, there are exceptions for specific classes where a demonstrated need has been documented. Face coverings may be required in classes or academic activities where it is necessary for students to work in close proximity to each other for an extended period of time. Face coverings may also be required in a class where the instructor or a student or their immediate family members have documented health-related issues related to the vaccines. Students, if you are wondering whether these conditions apply to any of your courses – check your syllabi. They will indicate if any of your courses will continue to have a face covering requirement in the absence of a broader campus policy. An individual instructor may also have a preference that face coverings be worn in their class. In this instance, instructors may ask, but not require, that students do so. We will continue our random mitigation testing. If you are selected, you will receive an email on Thursday to test the following week. It is great news to see cases of COVID-19 decline and our campus positivity rate return to a low level. Thank you for participating in the re-entry testing and for taking seriously the risk posed by the Omicron variant. This positive trend is thanks to your efforts, and I continue to be so incredibly proud of how our UNL community has pulled together during this pandemic. I look forward to Spring arriving, and to seeing more smiles as I walk around campus. Ronnie D. Green, Ph.D. Chancellor Address: 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 Phone Number: 402-472-7211 Related Links University Communication Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.