Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Today Menu Search Log In Agriculture & Environment Arts Business & Law On Campus Science & Technology Society & Culture Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Newsroom Nebraska Today Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint 6 days ago · 4 min read Kishore endeavors to leave a footprint Isha Kishore, a finance and Clifton Builders management major and New Student Enrollment leader, is from Omaha, Nebraska. Editor’s Note — This Q&A is part of a weekly conversation series that is celebrating Asian and Pacific Islander Desi American Heritage Month on the University of Nebraska–Lincoln’s Medium page. The series will feature Huskers who are making impacts on campus and look to maintain that momentum in future careers. Learn more about APIDA Heritage Month coverage in Nebraska Today. This week, we’re talking with Isha Kishore, a finance and Clifton Builders management major from Omaha, Nebraska. Throughout her undergrad career, she’s been intentional about getting involved and positively impacting the groups and communities she’s a part of. You’ve been really involved on campus, from Chi Omega’s DEI assistant to volunteering at the Women’s Center. Why was getting involved so important for your college experience? As a freshman, I knew that integrating myself into the UNL community was important for me to have an impactful experience. Every activity I am involved in has given me the opportunity to make a substantial contribution to UNL, and in the process, I have made connections that have truly enhanced my time in college. You’re part of the Clifton Builders Program. How has that helped shape your time at Nebraska? The Clifton Builders Program has given me a wonderful support system here on campus. Being surrounded with talented individuals has pushed me to think outside the box. Through the program, I have covered content that will be beneficial to me in my future career and participated in experiences to apply these concepts outside of a classroom setting. Furthermore, amazing faculty in the Clifton Strengths Institute have presented me with a plethora of opportunities. You’re also paying it forward as a student strengths coach, leadership mentor with the Nebraska Human Resources Institute and volunteer in the Women’s Center. What made you want to get involved in these mentorship/volunteer positions and what has been your favorite part? I am the person I am today due to the mentors I have had. I assume these roles because I know that having a mentor is vital for healthy development. I see my volunteer and mentorship positions as an investment towards a community that has invested in me. My favorite part is all the wonderful relationships I build through these positions. Why did you want to be a New Student Enrollment leader? Is there anything, in particular, you’re looking forward to about the experience? My younger sister is going to be a freshman in college this year, and I want to make sure that new students like my sister can transition smoothly from high school to life on campus. Your first semester at college can be difficult to navigate, and I want to be a resource for students. I am particularly excited to rock some khakis this summer. What do you hope to accomplish in your lifetime? I happen to be a big planner. After I graduate from Nebraska, I hope to go to law school and become an intellectual property attorney. After 10 years in the legal field, I want to pivot and be a board member of a nonprofit organization for a cause that I feel passionate towards. I want to leave a legacy in every community I am a member of and be remembered for my willingness to develop the people around me. What or who inspires you? Christine Trinh, the Internal Vice President of ASUN, is someone that I truly look up to. She speaks out for what she believes in, puts up a tough fight for the things she cares about, and treats others with kindness and grace. I aspire to be a person like her. What is your advice to other students looking to make an impact? Get involved. There are many RSOs and organizations in the community that will help you maximize your impact. This gives you the opportunity to build a strong social network and make a big school feel a lot like home. Share Related Links APIDA Heritage Month Q&A series Tags Isha Kishore APIDA Heritage Month diversity and inclusion Nebraska Today Q&A Clifton Builders Program Nebraska Human Resources Institute New Student Enrollment ASUN Recent News Mixed signals: Male wolf spiders get luckier following complex courtships 4 days ago Science & Technology 'Bell Affair' making its premiere in D.C. June 2 4 days ago Arts Society & Culture Students gain nonprofit experience through honors, foundry collaboration 4 days ago On Campus Lincoln wins big at National Bass Championship 4 days ago On Campus Interdisciplinary program takes long-range view of visual impairment instruction 4 days ago On Campus Raikes School student projects solve real-world problems, aid clients 6 days ago Science & Technology On Campus Nebraska’s leading economic indicator continues to rise 6 days ago On Campus Fuchs named Kavli Fellow 6 days ago Science & Technology On Campus Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1217 Q St. Lincoln, NE 68588 US About the UComm News Team Submit a Story Related Links University Communication Athletic Department Communications Office Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.