Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Office of the Chancellor Menu Search Log In Chancellor's Home Ronnie Green Biography Request for Appearance Administration Deans Commissions and Collaboratives Photo Gallery Past Chancellors Our Bold Vision The N|150 Commission N2025 Strategic Plan Journey for Anti-Racism & Racial Equity Documents UNL Strategic Compass Policy Memoranda UNL Bylaws Budget Chancellor Communication State of the University Chancellor's Messages Meditations and Musings Radio Interviews Events & News Installation of the Twentieth Chancellor Appointment of the Twentieth Chancellor News Archive Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Office of the Chancellor N2025 Aim 1 Progress – Innovate Student Experiences N2025 Aim 1 Progress – Innovate Student Experiences March 20, 2022 Dear UNL faculty, staff and students: In recent weeks, our UNL leadership had the opportunity to discuss the progress on each of our six Aims of the N2025 Strategic Plan. They were engaging and informative discussions that reviewed our progress as a university, and the unique and innovative activities across our colleges and campus units. This week’s focus is on Aim 1: Innovate Student Experiences. Our N2025 website features video and stories on our progress in meeting the goals of that Aim. One video shares the conversation with our UNL deans and leadership on how we’re growing and bolstering the student experience, improving graduation rates and looking at ways to reduce equity gaps in student success measures. Two additional videos shine a spotlight on some innovative experiential learning opportunities: The Experience Lab in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications and the Husker Venture Fund in the College of Business. During each of the next five weeks, we will be sharing additional news, videos and highlights on Aims 2-6 as we continue our focus on our N2025 Strategic Plan. Thank you for watching – I look forward to upcoming discussions on our progress and everyone’s role in our success. Ronnie D. Green, Ph.D. Chancellor Address: 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 Phone Number: 402-472-7211 Related Links University Communication Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.