Skip to content Loading... Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is currently disabled. This site requires JavaScript support to run properly. Toggle navigation Site home Programs Staff Deadlines LOGIN About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Advanced Search All Programs by Country "U" Programs Partner Programs Summer Direct Enroll Courses 2022 Faculty-Led Courses Non-UM Programs Students Scholarships Faculty & Advisors Incoming Exchange Travel Registration My StudyAbroad Announcements Announcements Loading... Previous announcement View All Next announcement Site links About Us Get Started Explore Our Programs Advanced Search All Programs by Country "U" Programs Partner Programs Summer Direct Enroll Courses 2022 Faculty-Led Courses Non-UM Programs Students Scholarships Faculty & Advisors Incoming Exchange Travel Registration My StudyAbroad Announcements Travel Registration As a UM student you are required to register any international travel on University business. If your program's sponsor has notified our office of your participation you may use the link below to gain access to the required documents and to complete your international travel registration. IMPORTANT: Students on an UM Study Abroad Program DO NOT register here. You will register your Study Abroad program related travel in My StudyAbroad once you have been accepted by Study Abroad. Register or Update Your UM-Related International Travel Students at the University of Miami who travel internationally on University-connected business or programs (University Trips) are required to register their purpose, destination, and itinerary as well as fulfill other requirements prior to departure. If you are planning on traveling internationally, please use the link above to register and complete these requirements. As part of this registration process students will find instructions on how to complete the requirement to register their travel itinerary with the International SOS system, as is outlined in the Student International Travel Policy on page 53 of the University of Miami Students Rights and Responsibilities. IMPORTANT: This international travel registration is for international travel on UM-related business that is NOT part of the programs offered by International Education and Exchange programs. The travel registration requirements for students participating on those programs are completed as part of the post-acceptance/pre-departure process. Info This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read cookie policy Accept? Yes No