Home About GCCM Our Team Volunteer With Us More Than Just a Location: The ReFresh Project Contact Us Donate Private Classes Online Cooking Classes AARP Wellness Wednesdays 2021 Online Cooking Classes 2020 Online Cooking Classes Community Classes FREE Community Cooking Classes Community Class Descriptions Sign Up for Our Waitlist! Cooking Resources Seasonal Recipes Cooking Videos Handouts Recipes Appetizer Recipes Baby Food Recipes Beverage Recipes Breakfast Recipes Dessert Recipes Dips, Sauces, and Dressing Recipes Entree Recipes Salad Recipes Side Dish Recipes Snacks & Seasonings Recipes For Medical Students Culinary Medicine Society Medical Student Elective Options 4th Year Teaching Kitchen Rotation For Medical Professionals Upcoming CME Classes Culinary Medicine Certification Select Page The Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine at Tulane University The Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine (GCCM) was founded in 2012 as the first teaching kitchen operated within a medical school, establishing itself as a leader in the culinary medicine movement. As part of Tulane University’s School of Medicine, GCCM’s mission is to educate and train future physicians to understand and apply nutrition principles in a practical way. This education enables medical trainees to assist their patients with diet and lifestyle modifications that improve their health. In addition to training for future physicians, GCCM teaches continuing medical education classes for existing medical professionals as well as free nutrition-focused cooking classes for community members. GCCM uses an innovative curriculum and hands-on cooking classes to reach the overall goal of empowering participants to improve their health by learning how to plan, shop for, and cook food that is both nutritious and delicious. For ONLINE COOKING CLASSES Click Here: Join us for Healthy Cooking Classes! For NEW RESOURCES Click Here: Knife Skills Video Series and Recipes Available! [Show thumbnails] What is Culinary Medicine? Culinary medicine uses an evidence-based approach to translate nutrition research into practical use in home kitchens. It is an emerging field that combines the art of cooking and the science of medicine. At Tulane University’s Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine, an interdisciplinary team of chefs, dietitians and physicians instruct medical students, medical professionals and community members through the Health meets Food culinary medicine curriculum. This premier curriculum focuses both on general healthy diet and lifestyle modifications as well as the condition and disease-specific diets that can be used in conjunction with other medical treatments to improve health and wellness. The innovative curriculum used at GCCM employs a food first approach to nutrition and focuses on simple techniques and culinary skills to ensure that eating healthy is enjoyable and sustainable for all. For more information on Culinary Medicine and GCCM’s program, check out this 2018 article from U.S. News & World Report, “Culinary Medicine: A Recipe for Better Health” A New Orleans Kitchen that Brings Medical Students and the Community Together This great video shot by the Alliance for a Healthier Generation explains our program for medical student training as well as community nutrition education. It was shown at the ceremony where the Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine was awarded the Innovation Award for Health Care Provider Training and Education in 2017. More Than Just a Location: The ReFresh Project The Goldring Center for Culinary Medicine is strategically located within The ReFresh Project, a Community Health Hub located in Midcity, New Orleans. The building, located on North Broad Street at Bienville Avenue houses nine organizations working to achieve health equity in the surrounding neighborhoods. Read more here… Sign up for Newsletter: Click here to be the first to hear about upcoming events by joining our mailing list Contact Us: 300 N. Broad St, Ste 102 New Orleans, LA 70119 Phone: 504-988-9108 teachingkitchen@tulane.edu Follow Us: Search our Site: Search for: © 2020 Tulane University We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok