Skip to Content UCF Golden Rule Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities Home Golden Rule Review Committee Student Handbook Archive Submit Proposal Home Golden Rule Student Handbook Download Full PDF Individual Sections Golden Rule Review Committee (GRRC) Student Rights and Responsibilities UCF-5.006 Student Conduct and Academic Integrity; Scope; Student Conduct Records; Medical Emergencies (Alcohol and Drugs) UCF-5.007 Rules of Conduct UCF-5.008 Student Conduct Review Process; Sanctions UCF-5.009 Student Conduct Appeals UCF-5.010 Scope; Authority; Principle of Group Responsibility; Violations of Law and Rule of Conduction Violations; Student Organizational Conduct Records UCF-5.011 Organizational Rules of Conduct UCF-5.012 Organizational Conduct Review Process; Sanctions; Appeals UCF-5.013 Student Academic Misconduct Review Process UCF-5.015 Student Academic Appeals UCF-5.016 Appeals of Graduate Program Actions or Decisions UCF-5.017 University Registrar Student Health Services Office of Student Involvement Student Union FDLE Sex Offender/Predator Registry Florida Statue 1006.695Requires Florida College Systems and State Universities to inform students and employees, during orientation, of the existence of the Department of Law Enforcement sexual predator and sexual offender registry website and toll free telephone number. For more information you can contact the Florida Sexual Offenders and Predators Registry at 888-357-7332. For TTY Accessibility call 877-414-7243. Colleges and Universities Registry Search State of Florida Registry National Registry The University of Central Florida is a community brought together by the tenets of the UCF Creed: Integrity, Scholarship, Community, Creativity, and Excellence. These are the values that guide our conduct, performance, and decisions. To be successful at UCF, there is an expectation that we embrace and promote these core values in everything we do as a sign of our membership in the UCF community. Whether you are a new or continuing undergraduate, graduate or professional student at UCF, there are certain responsibilities that students must uphold as members of our community. The Golden Rule is a compilation of policies and procedures from different university areas intended to define the rights and responsibilities afforded to students and provide a better understanding of each student’s role as a member of the UCF community. The Golden Rule is published online annually but can be revised at any time to reflect new and modified information deemed critical by the university. Changes will be communicated through online resources and by other means, at which time the revisions will supersede previously published information. The Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities (OSRR) within the Division of Student Development and Enrollment Services (SDES) is delegated the responsibility for reviewing, assembling, and communicating information included in The Golden Rule. Students are given the opportunity to periodically influence the rules that they are expected to adhere to through the Golden Rule Review Committee. UCF values diversity, equity, and the inclusion of all in our community. Accordingly, The University shall not discriminate in offering access to its educational programs and activities on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religion, non-religion, age, genetic information, sex (including pregnancy and parental status), gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, physical or mental disability (including learning disabilities, intellectual disabilities, and past or present history of mental illness), political affiliations, veteran status (as protected under the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act), or membership in any other protected classes as set forth in state or federal law. It is our policy to treat all people with dignity and respect. For more information or further clarification, please contact OSRR at 407-823-4638, visit their website, http://osrr.sdes.ucf.edu for the most current version of The Golden Rule or email them at osrr@ucf.edu. For past years’ Golden Rule Student Handbook, please see our archives page. Upcoming Events May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous Trevor Coulborn Hall 351: 351 Jun 1 Application Deadlin More Events Page Navigation Home Golden Rule Review Committee Student Handbook Archive Submit Proposal Contact Us UCF Golden Rule Go to contact and add a contact named Main. University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida