Home About GCCM Our Team Volunteer With Us More Than Just a Location: The ReFresh Project Contact Us Donate Private Classes Online Cooking Classes AARP Wellness Wednesdays 2021 Online Cooking Classes 2020 Online Cooking Classes Community Classes FREE Community Cooking Classes Community Class Descriptions Sign Up for Our Waitlist! Cooking Resources Seasonal Recipes Cooking Videos Handouts Recipes Appetizer Recipes Baby Food Recipes Beverage Recipes Breakfast Recipes Dessert Recipes Dips, Sauces, and Dressing Recipes Entree Recipes Salad Recipes Side Dish Recipes Snacks & Seasonings Recipes For Medical Students Culinary Medicine Society Medical Student Elective Options 4th Year Teaching Kitchen Rotation For Medical Professionals Upcoming CME Classes Culinary Medicine Certification Select Page Our Team Chef Heather Nace, RD, LDN Director of Operations & Executive Chef Email: hnace@tulane.edu Heather Nace is originally from Baltimore, MD, and holds a B.S. in Culinary Nutrition from Johnson & Wales University. She is currently the Membership Chair for the New Orleans Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and serves on the Culinary Medicine Specialist Advisory Board. As the Director of Operations, she is able to combine her experience of running a small business for twelve years with her culinary and nutrition knowledge. She provides leadership and execution of medical student and community programming, kitchen operations, training of students, and coordination of special events. As a registered dietitian with a culinary background, Heather hopes to inspire others to achieve good health by sharing her knowledge and passion for delicious food, practical nutrition, and home cooking. Chef Amber Dyer Assistant Program Director Email: adyer4@tulane.edu Born and raised in Rhode Island, Amber Dyer received her B.S. in Culinary Nutrition and Food Science from Johnson & Wales University in 2017. Her professional background is sprinkled with a wide variety of food and beverage science, research and development, as well as nutrition and wellness education with an emphasis on whole-body nutrition. Amber was drawn into the vibrant city of New Orleans to be a part of GCCM’s team and share her passion for culinary medicine with the local community and patients. As the Assistant Program Director, she oversees research projects with our partner sites, manages volunteers & interns, conducts recipe development, and leads the kid’s community nutrition and culinary programming. Chef Katie Pedroza Community Instructor / Family Programming Coordinator Email: kpedroza@tulane.edu Katie Pedroza, a native of Cincinnati, graduated from the University of Akron with her degree in Culinary Arts in 2001. Katie relocated to New Orleans to continue her culinary education working at renowned restaurants such as Dante’s Kitchen, Emeril’s Delmonico, MiLa and Coquette. Leaving restaurants for culinary education, she worked for Edible Schoolyard New Orleans for 5 years. At Goldring since 2015, she teaches Community and Family cooking classes, where she feels she is making an impact on the health and wellbeing of her fellow New Orleans residents. Ronald R. Quinton, MD, FACS, FACCP, CCMS Medical Director Email: ronaldquinton@gmail.com Dr. Ron Quinton has spent the last 40 years as a Thoracic-Cardiovascular Surgeon performing all aspects of adult heart and lung surgery. He retired from active surgical practice in 2020. During his surgical career, he became interested in and focused on the role that food and lifestyle play in the cause of coronary artery disease and lung cancer and how these diseases can be prevented and treated with healthy alterations in eating and living. During the last 20 years of his career, Dr. Quinton has actively educated and encouraged his patients and others to follow a healthier way of eating and living. Dr. Quinton is a graduate of Tulane University’s School of Medicine and now has returned to participate in the education of students, residents, and patients in healthy nutrition for disease prevention, treatment, and wellbeing. Timothy S. Harlan, MD, FACP, CCMS Senior Advisor Email: drgourmet@culinarymedicine.org “Eating well and eating healthy is the same thing,” says Dr. Tim Harlan, aka Dr. Gourmet, who discovered his love of food long before embarking on a successful career as a physician. By the age of 18, Harlan was managing his first restaurant and had learned cooking techniques from some of the finest chefs. He subsequently opened an intimate French bistro at age 22. Returning to school to pursue a degree in Hotel and Restaurant Management, Dr. Harlan found his way to medicine. While completing his degree at Emory University School of Medicine, he began writing about the clear link between food and health, blending his extensive knowledge of food and nutrition with his medical expertise. Sign up for Newsletter: Click here to be the first to hear about upcoming events by joining our mailing list Contact Us: 300 N. Broad St, Ste 102 New Orleans, LA 70119 Phone: 504-988-9108 teachingkitchen@tulane.edu Follow Us: Search our Site: Search for: © 2020 Tulane University We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok