Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Home Enjoy the Gorges Know the Dangers Safe Swimming Options Education & Stewardship Contact Gorge Safety Home Enjoy the Gorges Know the Dangers Safe Swimming Options Education & Stewardship Contact Home Gorge Safety The Nathaniel Rand ’12 Memorial Gorge Safety Education Program The two gorges that run through the Cornell campus – Cascadilla and Fall Creek – represent more than 10,000 years of beauty. They help to make Cornell one of the world’s most iconic campuses. While the gorges are wonderful for recreation and hiking, they can be very dangerous. The Nathaniel Rand ’12 Memorial Gorge Safety Education Program, Cornell University’s gorge safety educational effort, is named in memory of a student who died in a gorge drowning accident in 2011. The program’s goal is to prevent future tragedies by informing visitors about safe and responsible use of the gorges. The program includes educational initiatives such as the gorge stewards, orientation hikes for new students, educational programming for orientation leaders and residence advisors, a gorge safety video and brochure (pdf). These educational efforts are just one part of a comprehensive safety program that includes providing safe recreational alternatives, enforcement, and maintenance of gorge infrastructure. Cascadilla Gorge Trail Located just south of campus and ascending four hundred feet, the Cascadilla Gorge Trail connects downtown Ithaca to College Avenue on campus. The trail follows Cascadilla Creek through the gorge past waterfalls, ancient bedrock of shale and sandstone, and many plants adapted to gorge life. Fall Creek Gorge Trails Fall Creek Gorge begins just west of Beebe Lake, north of main campus. Within the gorge, Fall Creek plunges over six waterfalls, the last of which is Ithaca Falls. Ithaca Falls is located in downtown Ithaca and is owned and managed by the City. Visitors to the gorge can safely explore Fall Creek Gorge from the rim trails and four scenic destinations sites. Practice respect and safety when visiting the gorges While Cornell encourages our community to visit the natural places that make Ithaca truly ‘gorges’, we ask that visitors practice respect and safety at all times when hiking or using the trails. Please follow all caution and regulation signs, which change throughout the year depending on weather and trail conditions. Swimming is strictly prohibited in Cornell’s gorges at all times. Current Conditions All gorge trails are open. In the event of heavy rain, trails may be temporarily closed. Please check this page for updates on current conditions. Gorge Safety Brochure & Video View or download the Gorge Safety Brochure (pdf) for trail maps and safety information. A version of this video with an interactive transcript is available on CornellCast. Trail Information Out on the Trails (IthacaTrails.org) Search 240 miles of trails both on campus and throughout Tompkins County. The site includes a gps-enabled map with directions to each site. Click on the following links for trail maps within natural areas on Cornell's campus: Beebe Lake, Mundy Wildflower Garden, Fall Creek Gorge, Cascadilla Gorge, F. R. Newman Arboretum, Botanic Gardens Click here to explore the site. Gorge Regulations ◼ Stay on trails or within designated areas ◼ Bicycles are prohibited on gorge trails ◼ Swimming is prohibited ◼ Do not walk on closed trails or other restricted areas marked by fences, gates, and railings Follow @CUintheGarden to learn more about trail conditions, guided hiking tours, and much more! Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress