ABOUT About USC Gould A Message from the Dean History of USC Gould Law, Race and Equity News Events Board of Councilors ABA Required Disclosures Visit Us Social Media Contact Us ACADEMICS Degrees Certificates Areas of Concentration Experiential Learning Progressive Degree Programs Undergraduate Courses and Programs Corporate and Custom Education Non-degree Programs Academic Calendar Course Descriptions Bar Admissions ADMISSIONS Apply Now Check Application Status Tuition and Financial Aid Housing Information Class Profile Visit USC Gould STUDENTS Student Affairs Office Student Life Student Resources Student Organizations Academic Journals and Moot Court Life in Los Angeles Life on Campus Diversity at USC Discrimination and Harassment Prevention and Reporting USC Trojan Network Peer Support First Generation Professionals Gould Gateway CAREERS Careers Overview JD Career Services Graduate & International Programs Career Services FACULTY Faculty Directory Lecturers in Law Directory Experts Directory Faculty in the News Scholarship and Publications Distinctions and Awards Centers and Initiatives Workshops and Conferences ALUMNI AND GIVING Alumni Giving MORE Law Portal Media Contacts Events Continuing Legal Education Library Visit Us Contact Us COVID-19 LAW PORTAL MEDIA CONTACTS EVENTS CLE LIBRARY CONSUMER INFORMATION (ABA Required Disclosures) VISIT US CONTACT US COVID-19 About About USC Gould USC Gould is a top-ranked law school with a 120-year history and reputation for academic excellence. We are located on the beautiful 228-acre USC University Park Campus, just south of downtown Los Angeles. About USC Gould A Message from the Dean History of USC Gould Law, Race and Equity News Events Board of Councilors ABA Required Disclosures Visit Us Social Media Contact Us Academics Academics Learn about our interdisciplinary curriculum, experiential learning opportunities and specialized areas. Student Quick Links: Academic Calendar Bar Admissions Course Descriptions Degrees Certificates Areas of Concentration Experiential Learning Progressive Degree Programs Undergraduate Courses and Programs Corporate and Custom Education Non-degree Programs Admissions Admissions USC Gould helps prepare you for a stellar legal career. You can pursue a JD degree, one of our numerous graduate and international offerings, or an online degree or certificate. Apply Now Check Application Status Tuition and Financial Aid Housing Information Class Profile Visit USC Gould Students Students Participate in an unparalleled learning experience with diversity of people and thought. Get involved in the law school community and participate in activities that enhance your studies. Student Quick Links: Academic Calendar Bar Admissions Course Descriptions Student Affairs Office Student Life Student Resources Student Organizations Academic Journals and Moot Court Life in Los Angeles Life on Campus Diversity at USC Discrimination and Harassment Prevention and Reporting USC Trojan Network Peer Support First Generation Professionals Gould Gateway Careers Careers We work closely with students, graduates and employers to support successful career goals and outcomes. Our overall placement rate is consistently strong, with 94 percent of our JD class employed within 10 months after graduation. Careers JD Career Services Graduate & International Programs Career Services Faculty Faculty Our faculty is distinguished for its scholarship, as well as for its commitment to teaching. Our 12:1 student-to-faculty ratio creates an intimate and collegial learning environment. Faculty Directory Lecturers in Law Directory Experts Directory Faculty In the News Scholarship and Publications Distinctions and Awards Centers and Initiatives Workshops and Conferences Alumni and Giving Alumni and Giving The global Trojan network of more than 13,000 law alumni and donors include recognized leaders in numerous fields who are deeply committed to supporting student and law school success. Alumni Giving We consistently place our graduates in top-tier jobs. We provide an intimate, interdisciplinary learning environment within a dynamic campus. Our faculty are world-renowned scholars and experts. Our influential alumni network includes 10,000 professionals around the world. Los Angeles is home to one of the nation's top legal markets and busiest court systems. Our 12:1 student-to-faculty ratio fosters strong bonds with classmates and professors. Degrees Explore our numerous degree options — full-time, part-time, residential and online Certificates Learn how you can specialize your degree or earn a standalone certificate. Our Faculty Meet our professors, who are leading scholars and practitioners. Visit Us Schedule a tour, attend a class or plan your campus visit. 3.82 MEDIAN GPA Class of 2024 168 MEDIAN LSAT Class of 2024 94% CA BAR PASSAGE RATE Among Top 3 Schools in State 90.67% EMPLOYED 10 MONTHS AFTER GRADUATION in Long-Term, Full-Time Bar Required or JD Advantage Jobs (2021 JD Class) 43 COUNTRIES REPRESENTED 2019-2020 Graduate & International Programs Class Recent News A family’s saga May 25, 2022 USC International Human Rights Clinic works to obtain humanitarian parole for Afghans USC Gould launches new partnership with India’s O.P. Jindal Global University May 23, 2022 Gould Preview supports incoming law students with community, skill building May 18, 2022 Clerkships dominate the conversation at 2022 Jurist-in-Residence visit May 17, 2022 Hon. Adalberto Jordan, U.S. Court of Appeals, brings expertise to USC Gould A career of advancing Asian American inclusion in law May 17, 2022 Gould Alumni Spotlight: Albert C. Lum, LLB 1965 More News Spotlight USC Law Magazine: Building on Excellence - Distinguished New Faculty Dedicated to Service, Leadership join USC Gould This academic year has been a time of exciting and extraordinary change at USC Gould. In the latest issue of USC Law magazine, read about the newest additions to the law school community, including our outstanding new professors, renowned researchers and award-winning educators who also happen to comprise the largest incoming faculty cohort the school has seen in recent years. Explore inspiring stories of scholarship impact and alumni mentorship, from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C., to Tokyo - and more. Read the issue. Featured Events 4 JUN 2022 SAT Global Competition Law Thought Leadership Conference: June 3-4, 2022 June 4, 2022 7:30 AM - 11:30 AM 8 JUN 2022 WED Career Services Office presents Meet The Firm June 8, 2022 5:00 PM - 7:00 PM 25 JUL 2022 MON Career Services Office Workshop: OCI Cram Session July 25, 2022 12:00 PM - 2:00 PM More Events Contact Us Visit Us Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Privacy Policy Notice of Non-Discrimination Emergency Information Employment USC Gould School of Law 699 Exposition Boulevard Los Angeles, California 90089-0071 213-740-7331 © 2022 USC Gould School of Law