Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Relations Main navigation About About A Message from our VP Staff Directory Who We Serve Map and Directions News & Events News and Events Newsletters Photo Gallery Federal Relations Federal Relations Ways We Engage Federal Jackets Fellowship Georgia Tech's Impact State Relations State Relations Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Legislative Priorities & Other Resources Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Impact Community and Local Relations Community and Local Relations K-12 Outreach Local Government Georgia Tech's Impact Touching Pure Gold: Gwinnett School of Mathematics, Science, and Technology Visits the Cleanrooms Economic Development Economic Development Innovation Partners Internship Opportunities Internship Opportunities Federal Jackets Fellowship GLIP FAQs Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Strategic Energy Internship User account menu Advocate Vote Open Search Search Search Top Five Ways to Advocate for Georgia Tech Breadcrumb Home Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Advocacy is an easy and effective way to be involved with major decisions taking place on campus. There are several things you can do to advocate for Georgia Tech: 1. Get to know your legislators Arrange personal visits and send handwritten letters to build a relationship with your state elected officials. These are high-impact ways to connect and show your support of Georgia Tech. To get a list of the representatives for your district, enter your address or zip code on the Project Vote Smart website. Be sure to follow your legislators’ newsletters and social media posts that aim to keep constituents informed of key issues in their communities. 2. Connect with other alumni in your community Engage with your local alumni network, and open the door to more opportunities to advocate for Tech. Help host an alumni event with an Institute Relations representative, and learn more about advocacy efforts and Georgia Tech’s impact around the state. To host an event, email us today! 3. Attend Georgia Tech’s Annual Legislative Briefing Each year, advocates and friends of Georgia Tech gather on campus in anticipation of the upcoming legislative session that typically runs January through March. This event highlights Georgia Tech and the University System of Georgia’s legislative priorities for the year and is announced to all Capitol Jackets members. To find out when the next event is scheduled, check our News & Events page. 4. Stay informed Get the latest news and happenings: Sign up for one of our newsletters 5. Help spread the good word One of the easiest ways to advocate for Georgia Tech is to tell the Tech story to those around you. Contact us if you are interested in exploring the Georgia Tech campus in order to assist you in being a more informed advocate. Help state decision-makers develop a greater appreciation and support for Georgia Tech: Join the Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Top Five Ways to Advocate for Georgia Tech Download the Guide Contact Information Morgan McCombs Director, State Relations Phone: 404.894.3071 Email: morgan.mccombs@gatech.edu Abigail Horvath Associate Director, State Relations Phone: 404.385.0017 Email: abigail.horvath@gatech.edu Office of Institute Relations Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building, Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 Related Links Subscribe to Our Newsletter Find Your Legislator Governor's Office Georgia General Assembly University System of Georgia Georgia Departments and Agencies Georgia Chamber of Commerce A. French Building Georgia Institute of Technology Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 404.894.1238 A. French Building Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education