Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Relations Main navigation About About A Message from our VP Staff Directory Who We Serve Map and Directions News & Events News and Events Newsletters Photo Gallery Federal Relations Federal Relations Ways We Engage Federal Jackets Fellowship Georgia Tech's Impact State Relations State Relations Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Legislative Priorities & Other Resources Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Impact Community and Local Relations Community and Local Relations K-12 Outreach Local Government Georgia Tech's Impact Touching Pure Gold: Gwinnett School of Mathematics, Science, and Technology Visits the Cleanrooms Economic Development Economic Development Innovation Partners Internship Opportunities Internship Opportunities Federal Jackets Fellowship GLIP FAQs Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Strategic Energy Internship User account menu Advocate Vote Open Search Search Search Georgia Legislative Internship Program FAQ Breadcrumb Home Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Q: What does an intern do? A: This internship is a full-time responsibility. Most interns are assigned to a standing committee in either the House or Senate; a few may be assigned to legislative staff offices. Responsibilities include handling research bills or issues before the General Assembly, working with a legislative committee, monitoring the progress of legislation, and other duties as assigned by the committee. Above all, interns have the valuable opportunity to witness the lawmaking process firsthand. Q: How many interns are chosen? A: Approximately 30 students are selected each year from Georgia's public and private colleges and universities. Q: How are interns selected? A: Individual institutions handle the initial application process, but interviews are conducted and final selections are made by the Georgia Legislative Internship Program administrators. Q: How much will I get paid? A: The General Assembly determines the amount of the stipend paid to interns. Stipends over the past two years have been approximately $300 per week. Q: How long is the internship? A: The internship period corresponds to the annual session of the General Assembly. The session begins the second Monday in January and, with the usual budget recesses, concludes in April. During the week prior to convening of the legislature, an orientation for interns is held at the Capitol. Expect to work 12 to 16 weeks. Q: Why do I have to enroll in courses to participate in the internship? A: The internship program rules established by the General Assembly dictate that participating students must complete the internship courses in order to receive academic credit as well as a stipend. You will need to enroll in these internship courses facilitated by the Office of Institute Relations and pay any associated tuition and fees (if not covered by HOPE). There will not be regular class meetings for these courses. Q: I need to maintain full-time student status to be covered by insurance or to maintain loans, but the internship only offers 9 hours of credit. What should I do? A: You can maintain full-time status by registering your internship with the Center for Career Discovery and Development to secure audit hours for your term as an intern. Institute Relations staff will help you explore this option upon request. Q: Can I listen to previous information sessions? A: Yes, previous info sessions can be found here: https://primetime.bluejeans.com/a2m/events/playback/86deecaf-1ee3-42e6-bd6b-f847fbcb1a3d Contact Information Morgan McCombs Director, State Relations Phone: 404.894.3071 Email: morgan.mccombs@gatech.edu Abigail Horvath Associate Director, State Relations Phone: 404.385.0017 Email: abigail.horvath@gatech.edu Office of Institute Relations Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building, Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 Related Links Subscribe to Our Newsletter Find Your Legislator Governor's Office Georgia General Assembly University System of Georgia Georgia Departments and Agencies Georgia Chamber of Commerce A. French Building Georgia Institute of Technology Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 404.894.1238 A. French Building Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education