Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Relations Main navigation About About A Message from our VP Staff Directory Who We Serve Map and Directions News & Events News and Events Newsletters Photo Gallery Federal Relations Federal Relations Ways We Engage Federal Jackets Fellowship Georgia Tech's Impact State Relations State Relations Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Legislative Priorities & Other Resources Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Impact Community and Local Relations Community and Local Relations K-12 Outreach Local Government Georgia Tech's Impact Touching Pure Gold: Gwinnett School of Mathematics, Science, and Technology Visits the Cleanrooms Economic Development Economic Development Innovation Partners Internship Opportunities Internship Opportunities Federal Jackets Fellowship GLIP FAQs Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Strategic Energy Internship User account menu Advocate Vote Open Search Search Search Map and Directions Breadcrumb Home Driving south on I-75/85 into Atlanta Take Exit #249D (North Avenue). At the top of the exit ramp, turn right onto North Avenue. Cross Techwood Drive (the first light) and continue on North Avenue. After passing underneath the concrete pedestrian bridge, turn left into the visitor parking area. When leaving the parking lot, cross North Avenue using the crosswalk or pedestrian bridge and continue toward and around Tech Tower. The A. French Building is located just north of Tech Tower, and the Office of Institute Relations is located on the ground floor. Driving north on I-75/85 into Atlanta Take Exit #249D (Spring Street, West Peachtree Street). At the top of the exit ramp, go through the first intersection (Spring Street). At the next intersection (West Peachtree), turn left. Continue on West Peachtree for approximately one block and turn left onto North Avenue. Cross over the interstate and Techwood Drive and continue on North Avenue. After passing underneath the concrete pedestrian bridge, turn left into the visitor parking area. When leaving the parking lot, cross North Avenue using the crosswalk or pedestrian bridge and continue toward and around Tech Tower. The A. French Building is located just north of Tech Tower, and the Office of Institute Relations is located on the ground floor. MARTA (Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority) MARTA trains can take you from the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport baggage claim area to the North Avenue station, which is a .3-mile walk to the Wardlaw Building. Trains run Monday through Friday from 5 a.m. to 1 a.m., with a one-way fair of $1.75. (Be sure to check www.itsmarta.com for the latest operating information.) Follow the signs near the baggage claim area to MARTA and take a northbound train to the North Avenue station. Exit MARTA on North Avenue and head west on North Avenue (to your right). Continue on North Avenue for .4 miles, crossing over the interstate and Techwood Drive. Proceed onto campus near Tech Tower. The A. French Building is located just north of Tech Tower, and the Office of Institute Relations is located on the ground floor. Contact Information Mailing & Delivery Address Office of Institute Relations Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building, Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 Phone 404.894.1238 Web Administrator Email A. French Building Georgia Institute of Technology Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 404.894.1238 A. French Building Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education