Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Relations Main navigation About About A Message from our VP Staff Directory Who We Serve Map and Directions News & Events News and Events Newsletters Photo Gallery Federal Relations Federal Relations Ways We Engage Federal Jackets Fellowship Georgia Tech's Impact State Relations State Relations Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Legislative Priorities & Other Resources Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Impact Community and Local Relations Community and Local Relations K-12 Outreach Local Government Georgia Tech's Impact Touching Pure Gold: Gwinnett School of Mathematics, Science, and Technology Visits the Cleanrooms Economic Development Economic Development Innovation Partners Internship Opportunities Internship Opportunities Federal Jackets Fellowship GLIP FAQs Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Strategic Energy Internship User account menu Advocate Vote Open Search Search Search Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Breadcrumb Home Your chance to meet and work with Georgia's leaders Each spring, approximately 30 students from across the state are selected to serve full-time as interns to legislators, legislative committees, or legislative staffers. The internship is open to all majors, and is paid. During the course of the internship, students work full-time in offices in and around the Georgia State Capitol in downtown Atlanta. The internship period lasts approximately 12 to 16 weeks (January to April), depending on the length of the legislative session. The internship earns 6 hours of PUBP academic credit, with the potential to earn additional hours of PUBP academic credit, audit credit or a possible evening course at Georgia State University. To earn course credit, interns must work a 40-hour week, complete daily journals, and participate in group meetings. The internship program is offered in collaboration with colleges and universities throughout Georgia and the Georgia General Assembly. The internship program for Georgia Tech students is administered by the Office of Institute Relations. Q: Should you be a Legislative Intern? A: Yes, if… You are a Georgia Tech undergraduate student who wants to be a part of a dynamic state government before you graduate. You want to participate in shaping Georgia's future in politics, business, law, media, education, medicine, or beyond. You would like to enhance your education by obtaining experience and contacts for future job opportunities. Former Intern Quotes "The internship gave me insight into the practical realities of lawmaking. It was a very enlightening experience to realize how much the legislators must compromise. I would encourage even business majors to apply for an internship." "The internship opened my eyes to see what's actually going on in the state legislature. I worked in the Public Information office writing press releases, doing some research, and working on budgets. I would encourage all kinds of majors to apply." "Politics might be something I want to do. It was exciting. For future reference, it's going to help. It's an eye-catcher on the resume. It was also just fun to live a completely different lifestyle for three months in a big city." Q: Are there other requirements? A: Yes. You must be an undergraduate student, second year or above. You must enroll to receive 6 academic credit hours for the internship provided by the School of Public Policy. Selection is based on academic standing and potential for leadership in politics and government as indicated by grades, work experience, extracurricular activities, interests, and maturity. You will be asked to furnish a transcript and resume, as well as references from people who have taught you or worked with you. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Everything You Need to Know About Being a Georgia Tech Georgia Legislative Intern Georgia Legislative Internship Program FAQs Start your application for the 2022 Georgia Legislative Internship Program Contact Information Morgan McCombs Director, State Relations Phone: 404.894.3071 Email: morgan.mccombs@gatech.edu Abigail Horvath Associate Director, State Relations Phone: 404.385.0017 Email: abigail.horvath@gatech.edu Office of Institute Relations Georgia Institute of Technology A. French Building, Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 Related Links Subscribe to Our Newsletter Find Your Legislator Governor's Office Georgia General Assembly University System of Georgia Georgia Departments and Agencies Georgia Chamber of Commerce A. French Building Georgia Institute of Technology Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 404.894.1238 A. French Building Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education