Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Institute Relations Main navigation About About A Message from our VP Staff Directory Who We Serve Map and Directions News & Events News and Events Newsletters Photo Gallery Federal Relations Federal Relations Ways We Engage Federal Jackets Fellowship Georgia Tech's Impact State Relations State Relations Capitol Jackets Advocacy Network Legislative Priorities & Other Resources Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Impact Community and Local Relations Community and Local Relations K-12 Outreach Local Government Georgia Tech's Impact Touching Pure Gold: Gwinnett School of Mathematics, Science, and Technology Visits the Cleanrooms Economic Development Economic Development Innovation Partners Internship Opportunities Internship Opportunities Federal Jackets Fellowship GLIP FAQs Georgia Legislative Internship Program (GLIP) Georgia Tech's Strategic Energy Internship User account menu Advocate Vote Open Search Search Search Ways We Engage Breadcrumb Home We serve as a resource for the members of the Georgia Tech and Washington, D.C. communities Connections Between Federal Government Leaders and Georgia Tech Experts Georgia Tech is home to international thought leaders who are available to testify before congressional panels, brief members of Congress and staff on technical topics, and participate in conference calls or discussion panels. Contact us to connect with Georgia Tech experts in areas such as clean and sustainable energy; disease diagnosis and treatment; and national defense and security. Fiscal Policy Advocacy Cuts to research and education are creating an innovation deficit, the gap between needed and actual federal investments in research and higher education. Together with Georgia Tech's executive leadership team, we join the broader higher education and policy communities nationwide in the debate over the federal budget and the innovation deficit. Read more: Close the Innovation Deficit. Congressional Support for Federal Research Funding and Other Issues We encourage members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation to support federal funding for research and financial aid. Research Development Growing and diversifying Georgia Tech's research portfolio is among our primary goals. We provide faculty with intelligence regarding federal funding opportunities and assist with letters of support for grant proposals. Sign up for our weekly update from Washington designed exclusively for members of the Georgia Tech community. Congressional Testimony Prep Over the past few years, Georgia Tech faculty have testified before Congress on issues of national importance. The federal relations team helps our community capitalize on these opportunities and provide support before, during, and after testimony appearances. Advocacy Prep: D.C. Visit Planning and Onsite Support The federal relations team facilitates interactions between the Georgia Tech community and policymakers – both in Washington, D.C. and on our campus. If you know you will be interacting with members of Congress or their staff, please contact us so we can help you make your interaction as productive as possible and ensure your interaction is in compliance with federal lobbying disclosure rules. President Cabrera meets with Congressman John Lewis in his D.C. office. A. French Building Georgia Institute of Technology Suite 15 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0392 404.894.1238 A. French Building Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education