arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Academics Undergraduate Program Minors Frequently Asked Questions Courses Minors Past Course Offerings Graduate Program Graduate Student Awards Current Graduate Students Graduate Student Handbook Job Market Candidates Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Faculty Resources Research The Politics of Race, Immigration, Class & Ethnicity (PRICE) Initiative Programs Politics, Sandwiches, and Comments Political Theory Workshop Peter Katzenstein Book Prize Comparative Politics Workshop Government Events List Government Events Submission Form About Us Affiliated Programs & Resources Department Administration & Contacts Department of Government You are here Home » Peter K. Enns Peter K. Enns Professor, Robert S. Harrison Director of the Cornell Center for Social Sciences, Executive Director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research 205 White Hall peterenns@cornell.edu 607-255-3574 Website(s) Personal website Overview Peter K. Enns is a Professor in the Department of Government and the Brooks School of Public Policy, Robert S. Harrison Director of the Cornell Center for Social Sciences, and Executive Director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research. He is also co-founder and chief data scientist at Verasight. His research and teaching focus on public opinion and political representation, mass incarceration and the legal system, and data science. Enns has published three books—Hijacking the Agenda: Economic Power and Political Influence, Incarceration Nation: How the United States Became the Most Punitive Democracy in the World, and Who Gets Represented?—and dozens of academic articles and op-eds. His research has been funded by the Economic and Social Research Council, FWD.us, Koch Foundation, National Science Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and Russell Sage Foundation. In 2017, he received the Emerging Scholar Award from the Elections, Public Opinion, and Voting Behavior section of the American Political Science Association, presented to the top scholar in the field within ten years of her or his doctorate. CV Personal Website Departments/Programs American Studies Program Government Graduate Fields Government Research Research and data can be found here. Become a Government Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to Government The College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Undergraduate Faculty Contacts Government is a diverse and inclusive department. Twitter 214 White Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853 ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.