arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Academics Undergraduate Program Minors Frequently Asked Questions Courses Minors Past Course Offerings Graduate Program Graduate Student Awards Current Graduate Students Graduate Student Handbook Job Market Candidates Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Faculty Resources Research The Politics of Race, Immigration, Class & Ethnicity (PRICE) Initiative Programs Politics, Sandwiches, and Comments Political Theory Workshop Peter Katzenstein Book Prize Comparative Politics Workshop Government Events List Government Events Submission Form About Us Affiliated Programs & Resources Department Administration & Contacts Department of Government Doctoral student is awarded Peace Scholar Dissertation Fellowship Government professors win 2019 APSA book awards Prev Next News A&S student named Carnegie Fellow Ben Feldman will will conduct research at the Endowment in D.C. after graduation. Misperceptions can threaten scientific advancement Peter Enns, professor of government, and co-authors made this massive collection of COVID-related survey data available at the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research. View all news Events View all events JUN 10Decolonizing Futurities: A Global Racial Justice Sym... This is a two-day symposium occurring on June 10th & 11th ... Pick a Destination Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Faculty Profiles Courses Minors Hire a Government Ph.D. Senior Profiles: Ruby French, Hassaan Bin Sabir, Evin Rothschild Undergraduate Government majors apply their passion for learning and making a difference in a variety of ways. This year, the Department is showcasing three seniors who have found success both in the classroom and beyond! You can find their stories on our Senior Profiles page. Congratulations to Ruby, Hassaan, and Evin for raising the bar! In fractious times, we reaffirm core principles. The Government Department at Cornell studies and teaches about intolerance, but will not practice it. We write about xenophobia and bigotry, but will not pretend they only exist elsewhere. We research racism, homophobia, and misogyny, but will not permit them to pass unchallenged. Our role as academics has never been inconsistent with our duty as citizens, and we pledge to honor the rich diversity of our students, staff, and faculty. Those who come to us—as students, co-workers, and colleagues—must be free to learn and live without fear, and we urge the administration to declare—promptly and forcefully—that Cornell is a sanctuary campus. Twitter cornellgov RT @CornellCAS: We need to “bring people back in the center of everything that we do,” said Nobel laureate Leymah Gbowee during the… https://t.co/t1KymCBIg1 3 weeks 1 day ago Become a Government Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to Government The College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Undergraduate Faculty Contacts Government is a diverse and inclusive department. Twitter 214 White Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853 ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.