Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Governmental Relations Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home LegisLetter Staff Priorities Legislative Priorities Talking Points Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Governmental Relations Toggle navigation Home LegisLetter Staff Priorities Legislative Priorities Talking Points Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Contact Home The Office of Governmental Relations is the liaison between all levels of government and The Florida State University community. Special emphasis is placed on monitoring the Florida legislative process, from which the University receives a majority of its funding. In addition, the Governmental Relations staff is committed to informing the University community of key legislative issues of interest and impact. FSU Day at the Capitol The Florida capitol rocked garnet and gold during FSU Day at the Capitol. Thank you to everyone who took time out of their busy schedules to share the accomplishments of their departments and programs with the legislative community, and to the volunteers who helped make this special day possible. View the pictures from both the Seminole Evening reception and FSU Day at the Capitol. LegisLetter Latest LegisLetter If you would like to receive LegisLetter notices, contact us to join the distribution. College of Medicine Weekly Legislative Update University Lobbying Policy The Office of Governmental Relations is the official liaison between The Florida State University and local, state and national governments. Periodically, members and staff of the Florida Legislature request FSU faculty and/or staff to attend committee meetings or to respond formally to questions about certain issues. Employees of The Florida State University who are asked to appear before a committee must notify Lynna Sands and submit a legislative contact form prior to making their appearance. Fill out the Legislative Contact Form If you have trouble accessing this form, please contact Governmental Relations at 850-644-4453 for a hard copy. title-inside title-centered 2 Office of Governmental Relations | 2011 Westcott North | Tallahassee, Florida 32306-1440 | Telephone: 850-644-4453 | Fax: 850-644-2888 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media