Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Share Research, Fellowships & Experiences In this section, we compile opportunities available in the Government Department, around the Dartmouth Campus, and from other creditable sources that may be useful for our Government students.This page is updated frequently as deadlines pass or new opportunities become available. If you have any questions about a program, please reach out to the contact listed or, for general enquires, miya.l.wickramasinghe@dartmouth.edu. The Paganucci Fellows Program The Paganucci Fellows Program is a unique opportunity for Dartmouth undergraduates to take part in a global experiential learning program offered at Tuck. The program supports Tuck's efforts to study complex social issues and the ways businesses can create positive social and financial value: in effect, the "double bottom line." It is targeted at students with an interest in social entrepreneurship, an aptitude for working collaboratively as part of a consulting-like team, and an appetite for making a difference in the world. We are currently planning for an 8-week program this year (June 13 - August 5) that will include international travel. Application Information for 2022 Program We will accept applications from Monday, March 28, through Wednesday, April 13, at midnight. Interviews will be conducted virtually in mid to late April, and offers will be made on a rolling basis. To apply for the program, Dartmouth students must be in active status and in good academic and disciplinary standing. Applications should include the following items: Cover letter specifying why you are interested in the program Résumé and list of relevant coursework with grades received Name of a faculty member who can be contacted as a reference Essay on a topic related to economic development or social entrepreneurship (500-1,000 words; optional, but highly recommended) When applying, please send all materials in one email with PDF or Word attachments, with your name on all documents and in the title of the attached files. Subject line: Paganucci Fellows application Submit to: Tuck.Leadership.Development@tuck.dartmouth.edu thumbnail_image028.jpg DPCS Boston, San Francisco, and Philadelphia Cohort Internships Center for Social Impact Apply for the Center for Social Impacts 8-10 week, full-time summer internships in the social sector and be a part of our social impact cohort programs in Boston, San Francisco, or Philadelphia. Email service.internships@dartmouth.edu to schedule an advising appointment. More info here. Deadline: April 4th, 2022 center_for_social_impact.jpg Fellowship & Internship Opportunities The Leslie Center for the Humanities Fellowships Opportunities for student funding through the Leslie Center for the Humanities include: Student Research Fellowships, which offer up to $1,000 for faculty-supervised research or creative projects in the humanities Student Professional Development Fellowships, which provide up to $500 for participation in unpaid internships or attendance at scholarly meetings. Applications for both Research and Development Fellowships consist of, A detailed description of the project or activity for which the funding is being requested (1-2 pages), A budget of anticipated expenses, and A letter of support from a member of the faculty. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis, but students should apply at least two months in advance of their need for funds so as to allow for timely planning and purchase of travel. When a fellowship that has been awarded is complete, students are required to submit a brief report of a paragraph to a page in length to describe the fellowship's outcomes. Internships The Leslie Center also offers three students per year the chance to intern at one of the Thomson Reuters Foundation's many world office (e.g., New York, London). Two internship tracks are available: print journalism and digital journalism. The internship lasts ten weeks and its cost -- travel, room and board -- is fully subsidized by the Leslie Center and other Dartmouth sponsors. A call for applications is advertised in Fall term. download.png Undergraduate Research Fellowship in the Study of Race/Racism Vow to Act Research Fellowship In line with the "Vow to Act" research fellowship initiative, faculty members are actively working on the studies of race and racism. (Please check their websites.) If you are interested in research on any related topic, please contact a faculty member with a short statement describing your interest. You may take the form of a for-credit Independent Study or a paid Research Assistantship. Applications for this fellowship are currently closed. For general inquiries, please contact Roberta.C.Seaver@dartmouth.edu. Click HERE for more information about the Vow to Act's goals! fall.jpg Scroll for More Opportunities! Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback