Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview London Russia Washington DC Government & Energy Institute Apply for the Program The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Financing Your Program Preparing for Travel Most Common Questions Share Russia The Departments of Government, Russian and the Arthur L. Irving Institute for Energy and Society are offering a new interdisciplinary program that invites students of Russian language, government, and energy on an adventure across the vast reaches of the world's largest country. This program features custom-designed courses for the government or energy cohorts with the Higher School of Economics in Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia. Applications The application deadline for the Summer 2022 Russia Program has passed. If you have questions about the Russia Program, details may be obtained from The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. Please feel free to visit them at 44 North College Street or on their website. About this Program Participants will have the opportunity to explore Russia's political, social, and economic history, contemporary cultural and political life, and domestic and geopolitical energy and climate dynamics. This program features custom-designed courses with the Higher School of Economics in Moscow and St. Petersburg, and cultural expeditions across seven time zones and 5000+ kilometers along with close engagement with Russian and international students. Government students can learn about Russian domestic politics and Russia in the world first-hand from Russian scholars, in addition to a class offered by Dartmouth Government professor Joseph Bafumi. Experience Russia's long and complex political history, recent and contemporary governance regimes and discourse, and ground your growing knowledge via experiential learning with your peers throughout the vastness of Russia. Russia Program Slideshow Hear what Faculty Leaders, Prof. Bafumi and Prof. Graham, have to say about the program here! Prerequisites Students will be required to participate in a lecture series or take an accredited class about Russia in the spring before embarking on the program. Course work while on the FSP GOVT 96.01 – Russia in the World (Midlevel) This course will survey Russian foreign relations with the United States, the European Union, East Asia, the Middle East and the former soviet states. It will do so while covering a number of important themes for the Russian state including energy, economic dynamics, geopolitics, transnational coalitions, and diplomacy. Students will benefit from having multiple professors teaching in their specific areas of expertise. Students should come away from this class with a deep understanding of Russia's role in the world, its future ambitions and how these impacts the current world order. While formal lectures will end in the Moscow portion of the trip, students will receive further instruction via guest speakers, meetings, and experiential learning events in St. Petersburg. Course taught by multiple Professors from National Research University Higher School of Economics GOVT 96.02 – Russian Political Systems (Midlevel) This course will give students an in-depth understanding of domestic Russian political systems. It will begin with a brief history of the Russian nation and then cover contemporary Russian political institutions, political behavior, the national budget, media, human rights, and group politics (race, LGBT rights, youth movements, and gender). Students will benefit from having multiple professors teaching in their specific areas of expertise. Students should come away from this class with a very solid understanding of modern, domestic politics in Russia. Course taught by multiple Professors from National Research University Higher School of Economics GOVT 96.03 – Special Topics in Russia (Seminar) This class will cover contemporary U.S.-Russian relations with a specific focus on the new age of information warfare. We will cover electoral interference, cyberwar, propaganda and the perils of modern diplomacy. We will do so with book and article readings, lectures, discussions, and guest talks. We will also meet about one third of the time with Professor Gronas and his students to benefit from the perspective of an expert on Russian culture and language. Students should come away from the course with a solid understanding of the challenges of information warfare, both defensive and offensive, between nuclear powers. The course will begin with an introductory reading on modern Russia. We will then move to specific topics in information warfare with a final reading on the perils of modern diplomacy between the U.S. and Russia in the contemporary context. In most class sessions, students will be chosen to be discussion captains. They will present additional material closely related to the assigned readings which help us understand the topics of study more thoroughly or from additional perspectives. Students will also complete an essay-based midterm and final exam based on the material covered in class. Course taught by Prof. Joseph Bafumi in 2022 Spring. Russia FSP Director '22-'23 - Prof. Joseph Bafumi Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback