Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Why Government? Department Reports Government Alumni Undergraduate Apply To Dartmouth Share Why Government? Aristotle described political science as the overarching science, arguing that it helps us understand who we are as human beings and how we can live happy and productive lives in communities. The Department of Government at Dartmouth maintains the ancient Greek concern with the nature of order and governance at every level of social interaction. We are also attentive to communal failures and to the divisions, conflicts, and wars to which such failures give rise. We explore these issues from diverse perspectives. Faculty and students analyze texts, conduct surveys, experiments, interviews, and case studies, and collect and analyze quantitative data in their efforts to understand the political world. "Leading Voices in Politics and Policy" lecture series: Dean P. Lacy, Professor of Government, introduces Robert B. Reich, Class of 1968. PreviousNext Our Mission The Department is committed to the proposition that outstanding scholarship and outstanding teaching are complementary and mutually reinforcing. Many of our faculty are prominent researchers, addressing enduring problems including, for example, the sources and resolution of international and civil conflicts, the development of representative institutions in new democracies, the defense of civil and human rights, the valve of partisanship, gender bias in political campaigns, the persistence of mistake beliefs in public opinion, the consequences of American power for the future of international relations, the causes of genocide and prospects for its prevention, the detection of electoral fraud, and the proper level of autonomy for religious communities within the liberal statue. These issues attract students to Government classes in large numbers. Our Faculty Many of our faculty are prominent researchers and all are expected to maintain active research agendas, to subject their work to peer scrutiny and publish in visible outlets, and to be producers of knowledge within the community of scholars. Dartmouth attracts exceptionally talented students, and an ongoing commitment to creative scholarship is essential to faculty to be able to command their attention and inspire them to excel academically and to become independent, life-long learners. Beyond the Classroom The Department is committed to providing an outstanding curriculum and opportunities for students to learn about politics both in and outside of the classroom. In addition to our offerings within American, International, and Comparative Politics, as well as Political Theory, the department also offers multiple off-campus and foreign studies programs. The Department also sponsors lectures, seminars, and conferences, many in collaboration with other Dartmouth groups such as The Dickey Center for International Understanding and The Nelson A. Rockefeller Center. The Government Department helps supply open events to the Dartmouth community, providing opportunities for students to meet and engage with Dartmouth faculty and prominent visitors from other universities, the policy world, and journalism. College and University The Best of Both Traditions Dartmouth has developed its own unique niche as a liberal arts college with a university facultye. The Government Department prides itself on melding the best of these two educational traditions . As a college, our doors are open to students.This allows students to engage in one-on-one collaboration with our faculty. However, much like a university setting, our faculty is research-driven orienting them amongst their colleagues at other institutions. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback