Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview London Russia Washington DC The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Find A Program Preparing for Travel Financing Your Program Health and Safety Most Common Questions Share Off Campus Programs The Government Department offers three off-campus programs. The London program focuses on international relations and comparative politics.The Washington, D.C. program offers internship opportunities in legislative and executive offices, as well as the chance to conduct research. The Russia program features custom-designed courses for government or energy cohorts with the Higher School of Economics in Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia. **Application for '22-'23 are now available. Application deadline through The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education due February 1st, 2022** Your Opportunity to Study Abroad Is Here! View the current offering, presentations, and interviews for more information about your program of interest! The Government Department offers three off-campus programs in partnership with the Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. We endeavor to prepare students for a lifetime of learning and ethical civic engagement through transformative global academic experiences. london.jpg The London Program focuses on international relations and comparative politics. In affiliation with the London School of Economics, it focuses on international relations and comparative politics. Students will get to participate in unique educational excursions including trips to the British Library to examine the Magna Carta and tours of Parliament with lawmakers from the Commons and the Lords. Students will also get to experience immersion in more cultural experiences such as performances at the iconic Globe Theatre, exploring the beauty of London with a Thames River Boat voyage, and sightseeing outings to historic Bath, Stonehenge, Cambridge, and more! London Program Slideshow Hear what past Faculty Leader, Prof. Wohlforth, has to say about the program here! dc.jpg The Washington, D.C. program offers students the experience of interning in a political office or organization in combination with a course of study designed to place the individual's internship experience in a general academic perspective. The course work consists of two regularly scheduled seminars and a weekly journal evaluation of the internship experience. In the past, students and the professor have resided and taken courses at an apartment complex situated nearby in Virginia. The main courses offered in the program generally cover contemporary political affairs, public policy, and political institutions. The special guest speaker series, which includes people from all areas of Washington, is an important feature that occurs weekly, as well as outings related to the course material. Washington D.C. Program Slideshow Hear what Faculty Leader, Prof. Baldez, had to say about the program here! the_russia_program.jpg The Russia program features custom-designed courses for government or energy cohorts with the Higher School of Economics in Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia. This new interdisciplinary program that invites students of Russian language, government, and energy on an adventure across the vast reaches of the world's largest country. Student's will explore Russia's political, social and economic history, contemporary cultural and political life, and domestic and geopolitical energy and climate dynamics. This program will feature custom designed courses with the prestigious Higher School of Economics in Moscow and St. Petersburg and cultural expeditions across seven time zones and 5000+ kilometers along with close engagement with Russian and international students. Russia Program Slideshow Hear what Faculty Leaders, Prof. Bafumi and Prof. Graham, have to say about the program here! London FSP Director '22 - Prof. William Wohlforth Russia FSP Director '22-'23 - Prof. Joseph Bafumi Washington, DC DSP Director '22-'23 - Prof. Lisa Baldez Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback