Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Community Reacts to Draft Opinion Overturning Roe v. Wade Posted on May 09, 2022 by Bill Platt News subtitle Supreme Court appears poised to strike down the landmark ruling protecting abortion. Image Image Supporters of abortion rights rally on the Dartmouth Green Friday evening. (Photo by Ryan McCann ’22) Body The leak last week of a draft Supreme Court majority opinion to overrule Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 decision legalizing abortion, has prompted a wave of reaction across the country, including among the Dartmouth community. Dozens of students and other abortion-rights supporters gathered on the Green Friday evening as advocates spoke in support of reproductive rights. And Trustee Neal Katyal ’91, a former acting solicitor general who clerked for Justice Stephen Breyer, wrote in a May 3 opinion piece in The Washington Post, “Perhaps the only comfort one can take in this draft opinion is that it is a draft, meaning there is a chance that things might change before the official decision. But the odds of that are probably low, and this opinion, should it become law, would profoundly alter the rights Americans hold dear, and not just on abortion.” Katyal and many others, including President Joe Biden, argue that by rejecting the principle of the right to privacy that forms the basis of Roe and subsequent court decisions, the draft undermines the broad guarantees protecting decisions related to a range of personal choices including child rearing, contraception, marriage equality, and other life decisions. In the leaked draft opinion Justice Samuel Alito Jr. wrote that nothing in the text of the Constitution supports a right to abortion and says that it is up to the states to regulate access. “It is time to heed the Constitution and return the issue of abortion to the people’s elected representatives,” he writes. Many state legislatures across the country have already enacted or are putting forward legislation modeled on a Mississippi law that bans abortions after 15 weeks with very few exceptions. It was the challenge to that Mississippi law, Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, that brought the question of Roe v. Wade to the Supreme Court this session. It has been widely reported that 13 states have “trigger laws” that will go into effect restricting abortions as soon as Roe is overturned. Many other states have initiated bills that would either restrict or protect abortion access. Russell Muirhead, the Robert Clements Professor of Democracy and Politics and a Democratic state representative representing Hanover and Lyme, is not optimistic about the prospects of legislation protecting abortion access in New Hampshire. In an email from Concord, where the legislature was in session last week, he wrote, “It should be noted though that New Hampshire passed its first abortion restriction last June, and we can anticipate that Republicans will restrict it further if the Supreme Court gives them permission to.” This week, the U.S. Senate is also moving to bring a bill protecting access to abortion to the floor for a vote, but even members of the Democratic leadership have acknowledged that they do not have the 60 votes needed to overcome a Republican filibuster. The Alito opinion was met with differing reactions from two Dartmouth alumni in the U.S. Senate. North Dakota Republican Sen. John Hoeven ’79 embraced the prospect of a decision overturning Roe, with his office telling the Grand Forks Herald that he “remains committed to protecting the unborn” and that if the draft opinion reflects the final decision, “it would have his support.” U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand ’88, D-N.Y., spoke forcefully against the Alito draft at a news conference Thursday in Washington. “Women deserve freedom and bodily autonomy,” she said. “We deserve to be able to make decisions about when we are having children, under what circumstances we are having children, how many children we are having, and at what time we are having children.” When asked by Dartmouth News, faculty also offered their reactions: Sonu Bedi The Joel Parker 1811 Professor in Law and Political Science and the Hans ’80 and Kate Morris Director of the Ethics Institute We all know that the leak is unprecedented. I don’t have any sense of who leaked it and why. What is distinctive here is that this may be the first time we see clearly that the power of the Supreme Court is to say what the Constitution means without that power actually being exercised yet. Usually, the court announces its decision and opinion at the same time, exercising this power through the decision that is issued by the court. This is just a preliminary draft—and as Chief Justice John Roberts makes clear, not “a decision by the Court or the final position of any member on the issues in the case.” Yet, we can see what the impact of a possible decision overturning Roe would be, that is, we see that the court’s power is the power to say what the Constitution means but that power has yet to be exercised in this particular case and may not be exercised until June. Annelise Orleck Professor of History and of Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Alito’s draft ruling overturning Roe v. Wade cites Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s long-standing critiques of Roe to provide legal cover for what is at best, a highly political and legally shaky decision. Ginsburg argued that Roe would have been on more solid ground legally if it had been decided on the basis of the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal treatment under the law for all citizens rather than on the basis of its guarantee of privacy. But Ginsburg was not arguing for Roe to be overturned. She was trying to shore up rights she believed were essential to women’s freedom, arguing that any government attempt to restrict women’s full freedom of reproductive choice made women second-class citizens. Alito tries to hide behind the most famous civil rights decision of the 20th century–1954’s Brown v. Board of Education. He cites Brown as a shining example of the necessity of overturning long-standing, immoral precedents and argues that overturning Roe is the modern equivalent of Brown striking down the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson ruling that separating public facilities by race was constitutional as long as the facilities were equal. But Brown conferred rights; overturning Roe strips them. As women legal scholars of color immediately pointed out: this is nobody’s Brown decision. It is Plessy for women. Alito’s attempts to hide behind a beloved liberal feminist justice and behind the court decision that jump-started the 1950s civil rights movement is not only a cynical ploy to delegitimize the mass protests he knew would follow. Alito argues that there is no right to privacy guaranteed in the 14th Amendment and that it is unconstitutional for the court to confer rights that were not “deeply rooted” in U.S. history. His goal is to weaken the 14th Amendment as a font of civil rights. When the Constitution was written, a majority of Black people in the U.S. were enslaved and women did not have the right to vote. The 14th Amendment was an attempt to redress serious inequities. Civil rights attorneys have turned to it for that purpose for 155 years. Attempts to constrain the power of the 14th should send a chill down everyone’s spines because it is the necessary first step to stripping rights from any group the court chooses to target. Kristin Smith Visiting Associate Professor of Sociology If Roe vs. Wade is overturned, there certainly will be ripple effects felt in the labor market. It is likely that women’s employment and work hours will decrease, as the gendered division of labor in the family reinforce women’s roles as care providers. We only have to look back to the early days of the pandemic for a clear example of how school and day care closures increased family caregiving needs and reduced mother’s work hours more than fathers. These factors contribute to overall lower female earnings and increase the gender wage gap. But the effects will be centered on women with low incomes, minority women, and single mothers who live in states with trigger laws as the costs associated with out-of-state travel or taking unpaid time off from work will be too high, resulting in more childbirth among these populations. These are the same women who lack workplace policies that facilitate the combination of work and family. I expect we will see an increase in inequality. The United States is the only advanced country that does not have a paid parental leave policy, nor do we have a national paid sick leave program. It is still tricky to maintain breastfeeding when back to work as private places to pump at work are still hard to come by. We even lack protections against pregnancy discrimination at work. If Roe is overturned, the lack of support for women as they navigate balancing work and family will likely lead to fewer women in the labor force, just as employers are desperately searching to hire new workers. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback