Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next John Cho '22 Explores Identity in Politics Texas native is considering a career in voting rights law. Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. We Can't Even Agree on What Is Tearing Us Apart Thomas B. Edsall of The New York Times spoke to a number of Political Scholars including Dartmouth's Sean Westwood on "Sorting". Fulbright and DAAD Grant Recipients Announced The 13 award winners will teach, study, or conduct research around the globe. Miles Brown '23 to run for NH House seat Former College Democrats president Miles Brown '23 announced his campaign for New Hampshire state representative on Instagram and Twitter on Thursd Two Students Chosen for Native American Internship Program Udall interns gain practical experience with the legislative process in Washington. MAGA was the real winner of the Ohio Republican primary How should observers interpret last week's Ohio Republican primary results for its open U.S. Senate seat? Community Reacts to Draft Opinion Overturning Roe v. Wade Supreme Court appears poised to strike down the landmark ruling protecting abortion. Dartmouth professor passes on lessons of nuclear nonproliferation with Ukraine and Putin's threats in background HANOVER — Nicholas Miller wants to make one thing perfectly clear in case anyone has questions. Russia's nuclear weapons work just fine. How European identities shape support for EU security cooperation There have been calls to strengthen the EU's common foreign and security policy as a response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Recent Publications view all National identity predicts public health support during a global pandemic Yusaku Horiuchi, Charles Crabtree, Kasey Rhee '21, John Kahn '21, et al Nature Communications Revisiting negative externalities of US military bases: the case of Okinawa Takako Hikotani, Yusaku Horiuchi, Atsushi Tago International Relations of the Asia-Pacific The ephemeral effects of fact-checks on COVID-19 misperceptions in the United States, Great Britain and Canada John Michael Carey, Adrew M. Guess, Peter J. Loewen, Eric Merkley, Brendan Nyhan, et al. Nature Human Behaviour Patient traits shape health-care stakeholders' choices on how to best allocate life-saving care Charles Crabtree, John B. Holbein, J. Quin Monson Nature Human Behaviour Course Information See what courses will be offered by our department in Academic Year 22-23. Major Requirements Find out what the course requirements are for majoring in government.learn more Honors Program Complete independent research under the supervision of members of the Department. Events view all Jun 05 12:00AM Phillips Family Award in Ethics Deadline June 5, 2022 Blunt Alumni Center, Room 201 The Phillips Family Award in Ethics is presented annually to an undergraduate from Dartmouth College who has demonstrated strength and interest in applied and professional ethics. Jun 07 12:15PM Creating, Using, Misusing, and Detecting Deep Fakes ECSC, Teal 116 Hany will provide an overview of how synthetic media is created, how it is being used and misused, and if and how it can be perceptually and forensically distinguished from reality Jun 07 2:00PM Government Department Meet and Greet – Seniors! Hitchcock Tent Seniors, join us in the Hitchcock Lawn Tent for a Student and Faculty Meet & Greet! Jun 12 7:30AM Commencement Breakfast – Government Department Rockefeller Courtyard Seniors! Join us under the Rocky Courtyard on for the Government Department’s Commencement Breakfast. Excellent opportunity to meet up with some of your friends and faculty! Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback