Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Prizes and Awards PreviousNext Essay Prizes The Pressman Prize is awarded to a senior Government Major who has written a thesis of outstanding quality in the field of American Government and Politics. Previous winners of The Pressman Prize. The Bennett Essay Prize is awarded to a senior Government Major who has written a thesis of outstanding quality in the field of Political Theory or Public Law. Previous winners of The Bennett Essay Prize. The Rockefeller Prize in Comparative Politics is awarded to a senior Government Major who has written a thesis of outstanding quality in the field of Comparative Politics. The Prize consists of a money award and an engraved pewter plate. Previous winners of The Rockefeller Prize in Comparative Politics. The Rockefeller Prize in International Relations is awarded to a senior Government Major who has written a thesis of outstanding quality in the field of International Relations. Previous winners of The Rockefeller Prize in International Relations. THE ROCKEFELLER MEMORIAL POSTGRADUATE FELLOWSHIP The Rockefeller Memorial Postgraduate Fellowship is intended to support a graduating senior that has plans to advance their research work during a summer residency in Hanover. Previous winners of The Rockefeller Memorial Postgraduate Fellowship. THE RINTELS PRIZE Each year the Government Department nominates one student in the Honors Program for the Rintels Prize. The Rintels Prize recognizes an outstanding thesis written in the field of literature, language, philosophy, or the social sciences. THE FOWLER FAMILY PRIZE The Fowler Family Prize in Democratic Politics is awarded to the Government major or majors who have combined academic excellence in the Department with demonstrated effectiveness in the practice of political analysis or civic engagement. Previous winners of The Fowler Family Prize. THE ANDREW WARDEN EDSON 1925 MEMORIAL PRIZE The Edson Prize is a book award that is given to a student or students who had a remarkable academic performance in the Department introductory courses. Previous winners of the Andrew Warden Edson 1925 Memorial Prize THE JAMES FAIRBANKS COLBY PRIZE The James Fairbanks Colby Prize is awarded to the Government major or majors whose academic work, extracurricular activities, and future plans most compellingly establish the student's commitment to public service. Previous winners of The James Fairbanks Colby Prize. Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback