Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search John Michael Carey Academic Appointments Associate Dean for the Social Sciences John Wentworth Professor in the Social Sciences Professor of Government Fellow of American Academy of Arts and Sciences Connect with Us Twitter Professor Carey teaches the introductory course, Politics of the World, upper-level courses on elections and on the politics in Latin America, and a seminar on foreign aid. His research is on what makes democracies thrive and why they sometimes fail. He has published widely on the design of electoral rules and how they affect the quality of representation. Recently, he has also conducted research on why people believe in conspiracy theories, and what are the effects on politics. A separate project focuses on what students really think about campus diversity. Professor Carey is also a co-founder of BrightLineWatch.org, an initiative that monitors the quality of U.S. democracy. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2012. Lots more information about his work, as well as links to public data, are available on his website Personal Website Contact John.M.Carey@Dartmouth.edu 646 1130 226 Silsby Hall HB 6108 Education B.A. Harvard University Ph.D. University of California at San Diego Areas of Expertise Constitutions /Elections /Legislatures /Latin American politics /New democracies Selected Publications Recent Articles “The ephemeral effects of fact-checks on COVID-19 misperceptions: Evidence from the United States, Great Britain, and Canada.” Co-authored with Andrew M. Guess, Peter John Loewen, Eric Merkley, Brendan Nyhan, Joseph B. Phillips, and Jason Reifler. Nature Human Behavior. Forthcoming. https://osf.io/yezgv/ “Disfavor or favor? Assessing the valence of white Americans’ racial attitudes.” Co-authored with Alexander Agadjanian, Yusaku Horiuchi, and Timothy J. Ryan. Quarterly Journal of Political Science. Forthcoming. https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3701331 “Learning how others perceive COVID-19 vaccination has minimal effect on uptake intentions: Evidence from injunctive norm and contentiousness treatments in Great Britain, Canada, and the United States.” Co-authored with Tracy Keirns, Peter John Loewen, Eric Merkley, Brendan Nyhan, Joseph B. Phillips, Judy Rees, and Jason Reifler. PNAS – Nexus. Forthcoming. “Partisanship unmasked: The role of politics and social norms in COVID-19 mask-wearing behavior.” Co-authored with Andrew M. Guess, Brendan Nyhan, Joseph B. Phillips, and Jason Reifler. Journal of Experimental Political Science. Forthcoming. “The Effect of Electoral Inversions on Democratic Legitimacy: Evidence from the United States.” Co-authored with Gretchen Helmke, Brendan Nyhan, Mitchell Sanders, Susan C. Stokes, and Shun Yamaya. British Journal of Political Science. 2021. https://doi.org/10.1017/S000712342100048X “Who will defend democracy? Evaluating tradeoffs in candidate support among partisan donors and voters.” Journal of Elections, Public Opinion, and Policy. Co-authored with Katherine Clayton, Gretchen Helmke, Brendan Nyhan, Mitchell Sanders, and Susan C. Stokes. https://doi.org/10.1080/17457289.2020.1790577. 2020. “The effects of corrective information about disease epidemics and outbreaks: Evidence from Zika and Yellow Fever in Brazil.” Co-authored with Victoria Chi, D.J. Flynn, Brendan Nyhan, and Thomas Zeitzoff. Science Advances 6(5): eaaw7449. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaw7449. 2020. Books Campus Diversity: The Hidden Consensus. Co-authored with Katherine P. Clayton and Yusaku Horiuchi. Cambridge University Press, 2020. Legislative Voting and Accountability. Cambridge University Press. 2009. Term Limits in the State Legislatures. Co-authored with Richard Niemi and Lynda Powell. University of Michigan Press. 2000. Executive Decree Authority. Co-authored/edited with Matthew S. Shugart. Cambridge University Press. 1998. Term Limits and Legislative Representation. Cambridge University Press. 1996. Presidents and Assemblies: Constitutional Design and Electoral Dynamics. Co-authored with Matthew S. Shugart. Cambridge University Press. 1992. + View more Courses GOV4: Politics of the World GOV26: Elections and Reform GOV49: Latin American Politics GOV84.14 Foreign Aid Related Links Personal Website Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback