Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Major/Minor Honors Courses Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit 2021 Honors Program Honors Courses Share Honors Program The Government Department Honors Program provides qualified undergraduates with an opportunity to complete independent research under the supervision of members of the Department. 2023 Honors Program Honors Seminar Informational Session (via Zoom) The Co-Directors of the Honors Program, Profs. Lucas Swaine and Benjamin Valentino recently hosted a live informational session for students interested in applying to the 2023 Honors Program. In this meeting, they explained the program, its requirements, expectations, and answered questions that prospective students might have had.If you weren't able to make the informational, check out the recording of the event below! Watch the recording this years informational session HERE! Applying to the Honors Program Participants in the Honors Program define and analyze a specific issue or hypothesis in the field of political science and write a thesis. The Program is completed within the framework of a three-course sequence during the senior year: GOVT 97 (fall), GOVT 98 (winter), and GOVT 99 (spring) GOVT 97 is a seminar-level course; GOVT 98 is mid-level. GOVT 99 is required to complete the Honors Program, but it does not count toward the Government major or minor. Students meet weekly with the Directors of the Honors Program during the 3B hour of the fall term. Students also meet regularly with individual thesis advisors at times convenient to both. For additional information on writing an Honors thesis, please feel free to talk with the co-directors of the Honors Program, Lucas Swaine and Benjamin Valentino, or any of the Government faculty members. We strongly recommend speaking with potential faculty advisors about your ideas no later than the winter quarter of your junior year. If interested in pursuing the Honors Program, please review the informational materials and the application requirements below. Prerequisites and Application Process Determine that you have successfully completed six courses from your Major or Modified Major, including at least one introductory course, at least two upper-level courses, and at least one advanced seminar before the end of your junior year. Determine that you meet the minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.3 for all Dartmouth courses, and 3.5 in the Government major. Determine that you have successfully completed the Government Major's statistics prerequisite (Gov 10 or its equivalent) by the end of your junior year. Obtain a faculty advisor (check the Government Department webpage for information on faculty interests). Fill out an application form, and write a thesis proposal and upload here. Both need to be submitted to the Government Department by May 23, 2022. If you will be away on an FSP or an LSA during spring term, you are encouraged to complete your application by the end of winter term. Extensions will not be granted on account of FSP or LSA participation. Additional Information Sample Honors Proposal Proposal Guidelines 2022-2023 honors_2019.jpg Honors Program Director - Prof. Benjamin Valentino Honors Program Director - Prof. Lucas Swaine Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback