Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview London Russia Washington DC Government DSP DC Apply for The Program The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Financing Your Program Preparing for Travel Most Common Questions Share Washington DC The Government Department's off-campus program in Washington, D.C. provides students with internship opportunities in legislative and executive offices as well as the chance to conduct research involving the national government. About The Program The Washington, D.C. program offers students the experience of interning in a political office or organization in combination with a course of study designed to place the individual's internship experience in a general academic perspective. The course work consists of two regularly scheduled seminars and a weekly journal evaluation of the internship experience. In the past, students and the professor have resided and taken courses at an apartment complex situated nearby in Virginia. The main courses offered in the program generally cover contemporary political affairs, public policy, and political institutions. The special guest speaker series, which includes people from all areas of Washington, is an important feature that occurs weekly, as well as outings related to the course material. Washington D.C. Program Slideshow Hear what Faculty Leader, Prof. Baldez, had to say about the program here! Applications The application deadline for the Spring of 2023 has passed. More detailed information may be obtained from The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, 44 North College Street, and at their website. GOVT 93 Internship Essays An internship with a public or private agency or organization intended to give students practical experience of political life in the nation's capital. Each student will write weekly essays relating his or her work experience to broader issues in political science. (This course counts as a mid-level course and not as a seminar course for the major or minor.) GOVT 94 American Social Movements Inside and Outside the State This Course will look at the history of the United States by studying the emergence, evolution and impact of social movements. We will focus on movements centered on civil rights, conservativism, feminism, and anti-Blackness in the 20th and 21st centuries. GOVT 95 Human Rights and Foreign Policy in the United States This course will examine race in terms of the relationship between the civil rights movement in the United States and the global human rights movement, the international dimensions of the Black Lives Matter movement, and the role of the United Nations and other countries in challenging racism in the U.S. Hello from Washington, DC - Spring '19 gfd_19.jpg DC DSP Director '22-'23 - Prof. Lisa Baldez Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback