Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Share Grants and Funding Grants and Funding available around Dartmouth Campus OPAL OPAL’s mission is to foster a Dartmouth where all students can thrive, value difference, and contribute to the creation of a socially just world. To achieve its mission, this office works with student organizations and campus partners. For that reason, OPAL funding support is dedicated to these organizations. For more information on OPAL please email Pluralism.and.Leadership.Office@Dartmouth.edu UGAR UGAR oversees programs that provide opportunities for students to engage in research with a Dartmouth College faculty mentor. These close collaborations between faculty and students provide a forum for faculty to teach and mentor undergraduates on a one-on-one basis outside the classroom. Students acquire first-hand experience in an academic field of research while developing skills such as critical thinking, information processing, and effective communication. For more information on UGAR please email Undergraduate.Research@dartmouth.edu Rockefeller The Rockefeller Center offers grants for Undergraduate students ranging from $300 to $1000 as well as internship opportunities. For more information click here. The Senior Honors Grants Program provides grants of up to $1,000 for undergraduate students writing a senior honors thesis in the social sciences. The Mini-grants cover conference registration fees up to $300 for an individual student, or up to $1,000 to cover the costs of an on-campus event or program by a student organization. For application information click here. Dartmouth undergraduate students can apply for up to $4,500 to help offset the costs of eligible internships in public policy research, public policy analysis, issue evaluation, or activities which help shape and determine public policy. The Rockefeller Center also has resources and advising to help you identify a high-caliber internship experience. For more information click here. Neukom Institute This program seeks to fund third or fourth-year students engaged in faculty-advised research in the development of novel computational techniques as well as the application of computational methods to problems in the Sciences, Social Sciences, Humanities, and the Arts. Awards are $1,000/term for 1 or 2 terms. For more information on the Neukom Institute please email Neukom.Institute@dartmouth.edu Dickey Center The John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding supports curricular programs, internships and fellowships and other co-curriculum activities, and engagement with experts in support of research initiatives for undergraduate, post-graduate, graduate students and faculty. Most of the funding opportunities are associated with one of their five strategic areas: environment, gender, health, human development, and security. For more information on the Dickey Center please email Dickey.Center@Dartmouth.edu Leslie Center The Leslie Center for the Humanities advances the study of meaning, purpose, and creativity in the human experience. They support humanities research and projects that engage students, faculty, staff, and visitors at Dartmouth College and beyond. Since its inception, the Fannie and Alan Leslie Center for the Humanities has provided support to the humanities through colloquia, seminars, symposia, and conferences, as well as activities for students, faculty and visitors relating to the humanities. Funding is available via Fellowship and Internship, both of which are open to Government students. Find more information HERE, at The Leslie Center for the Humanities, or by emailing Mary.L.Fletcher@dartmouth.edu Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback