Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search ASSISTANT PROFESSOR of Government Kathleen E. Powers Share How European identities shape support for EU security cooperation Posted on May 05, 2022 by Prof. Kathleen E. Powers PreviousNext There have been calls to strengthen the EU's common foreign and security policy as a response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. But what determines public support for these measures? Drawing on a new book, Kathleen E. Powers illustrates how European identities shape the views of citizens about EU security cooperation. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has elevated security concerns to the top of the European agenda. EU member states have provided aid to Ukraine and imposed large-scale sanctions against Russia with substantial support from their constituencies. This united front marks a substantial – and perhaps surprising – achievement for foreign policy cooperation. Now more than ever, the EU is exhibiting the commitment to common defence laid out in the 2009 Lisbon Treaty. What drives public support for security cooperation? A common argument points to a collective European identification: if people feel that Germans, Italians, and Latvians belong to one European group, they trust each other and view their self-interest as aligned with the continent's interest. If a threat to Latvia is a threat to Belgium, and citizens trust each other to resolve disputes without force within this group, they collectively cooperate against external threats. In a new book, I argue that this simple story overlooks important nuance in how people form attachments to social groups. European residents can hold equally strong European commitments but maintain distinct ideas about what their membership in this group means. Some European identities drive support for cooperation, whereas others do not. Promoting a "European" identity without attention to its constituent parts risks undermining the goal of presenting a common front on the world stage. Tags: Kathleen Powers Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback