Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Two Students Chosen for Native American Internship Program Posted on May 17, 2022 by Charlotte Albright News subtitle Udall interns gain practical experience with the legislative process in Washington. Image Image Ahnili Johnson-Jennings ’23, left, and Ryann Cornelius ’23 have been selected for the Udall Program. (Photos by Eli Burakian ’00) Body Ryann Cornelius ’23 and Ahnili Johnson-Jennings ’23 are among 11 students representing 10 tribes and 10 universities nationwide who will spend this summer serving as interns in Congress and federal agency offices as recipients of the 2022 Native American Internship Program of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation. Interns “gain practical experience with the federal legislative process in order to understand firsthand the government-to-government relationship between tribes and the federal government,” according to the program website. Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Ryann Cornelius ’23 Native American and Indigenous Studies, Anthropology Pueblo of Zuni Cornelius is an Indigenous student peer adviser for the Native American Program and serves on the executive board of Dartmouth’s chapter of the American Indian Science and Engineering Society. “Receiving the Udall Internship is truly an honor. I am enthusiastic to learn more about contemporary sovereignty and deepen my understanding of federal Indian law and policy, building on all I have learned from Bruce Duthu,” says Cornelius, referring to the Samson Occom Professor of Native American Studies. “His classes sparked a fire that keeps getting brighter the more I learn, even though, at times, I have been frustrated by the state of Indian affairs. From the internship, I hope to learn about Indian health care policy and the gaps within the Indian health care system, and what my role can be in helping address those needs. I plan to attend medical school, specializing in maternal and child health care, and then return home to work within my community’s tribal health clinic.” Image (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Ahnili Johnson-Jennings ’23 Government, Native American and Indigenous Studies Quapaw, Sac and Fox, Choctaw, and Miami Johnson-Jennings serves as social chair for Native Americans at Dartmouth and was co-chair of the 2022 Powwow. She is also a member of the Dartmouth Minority Pre-Law Association. “The Udall internship means a great deal to me personally,” says Johnson-Jennings. “Driven by my passion and commitment to my communities, who have provided me with community, culture, traditions, and so much more, I strive to be a conduit of information and revitalization for all my tribal communities through my educational and professional goals. The Congressional internship will provide me with the opportunity to gain insights into the workings of the federal government and, in particular, on policies that affect Indian people. I hope that through this internship, I am able to learn ways to better assist the advancement of Indigenous communities’ well-being, assist my tribes in addressing remaining detrimental impacts of colonization, and help to advance reconciliation within the United States through increasing awareness and advancing policy changes.” The Udall Foundation is an independent executive branch agency named for the late U.S. Rep. Morris Udall, D-Arizona, and his late brother Stewart Udall, who also served in the U.S. House and as Secretary of the Interior during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. In addition to the Congressional Internship Program, the Udall Foundation awards scholarships to undergraduates who exemplify “leadership, public service, and a dedication to issues relevant to Native American nations or the environment.” From that program, Cornelius received an honorable mention, along with Jesse Ferraioli ’23 and Jessica Meikle ’23. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback