Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Government Department of Government Contact Us Facebook Instagram Government.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Back to Top Nav Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Back to Top Nav Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Back to Top Nav Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview London Russia Washington DC Government FSP London Apply for the Program The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Financing Your Program Preparing for Travel Most Common Questions Share London The Government Department’s Foreign Study Program takes place each year during the fall term. In affiliation with the London School of Economics, it focuses on international relations and comparative politics. About the Program with Prof. William Wohlforth Video of Government London FSP Applications The application deadline for the Fall 2022 London Program has passed. If you have questions about the London Program, details may be obtained from The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. Please feel free to visit them at 44 North College Street or on their website. Prerequisites The prerequisites for this program consist of any two of the following courses: Government 4, Government 5, or Government 6. Relevant coursework in other departments will also be considered Coursework While on the FSP Students receive three course credits while on the London FSP. Students take two courses taught by the London School of Economics faculty and one seminar taught by the program's director. Professor William C. Wohlforth will lead the program in Fall of 2022. The LSE professors will offer two midlevel courses - GOVT 90 and GOVT 91. Prof. Wohlforth will offer a seminar GOVT 92. Govt 92 - Fall 2022- Prof. William Wohlforth Subversive Statecraft: Interference and Covert Action in Great Power Rivalry This seminar uses the statecraft of subversion among the great powers as a novel window to understand strategic interaction in international politics in the cyber era. Its main aim is to help you become a sharper, more sophisticated analyst of strategy. In achieving that goal, you'll also: better understand core concepts in international politics and law, such as sovereignty and non-intervention; master foundational scholarly theories and models that have wide applicability in analyzing strategic interaction; become much more knowledgeable about espionage and "grey zone" political warfare in the cyber era; and continue to hone your ability to develop and present analytical arguments orally and in writing. The seminar will be integrated in the overall FSP via visits to London-based research institutions, think tanks, academic and private sector experts on security and intelligence. Greetings From London - Students Visit Guild Hall Fall '21 london_f2021.jpg London FSP Director '22 - Prof. William Wohlforth Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Government About Why Government? Department Reports Vow To Act Government Alumni Tell us your story Undergraduate Major/Minor Honors Courses Introductory Courses First-Year Seminars Political Analysis Upper-Level Courses That Cross-Subfields American Government Comparative Politics International Relations Political Theory and Public Law Independent Study Government Seminars Honors Program Course Wait Lists Transfer Credit Off Campus Programs Overview London Russia Washington DC Opportunities Overview Grants and Funding Prizes and Awards Research, Fellowships & Experiences News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback