Home About Inspiring Yale Navigating Yale The Gryphon Resources Funding Resolutions Back Get Involved Who We Are Officers & Senators Senate Calendar Bylaws Standing Committees University Wide Committees Contact Us The Senate in Action Strategic Plan Back Mental Health Fossil Fuel Investment 2021 The Period Project Covid Resources YETI Tutoring News Subscriptions Home About Get Involved Who We Are Officers & Senators Senate Calendar Bylaws Standing Committees University Wide Committees Contact Us The Senate in Action Strategic Plan Inspiring YaleNavigating YaleThe Gryphon Resources Mental Health Fossil Fuel Investment 2021 The Period Project Covid Resources YETI Tutoring News Subscriptions FundingResolutions Scroll GPSS is here for you We influence the policy, culture, and views of the University leadership by expressing the views of the Graduate and Professional (G&P) student body to the administration, and by issuing statements of our position to the media and administration. learn more about the Yale Senate by viewing our orientation video Online or In Person: GPSS is Here to Help! submit a funding request submit here submit your event to our weekly announcement submit here rESOURCES Senate is committed to empowering student organizations to reach their full potential. Discover some of the resources available through us. LEARN MORE Navigating Yale Connect with other students and find out more about our programs Learn more We are a major funding and advertising source for G&P community events put on by G&P student groups across campus . Discover our recent projects, accomplishments, and initiatives It is the mission of the Graduate and Professional Student Senate to build community among graduate and professional students, create relationships with other university groups for graduate and professional student benefit, oversee The Gryphon at 204 York Street, and influence the policy, culture, and views of the university through direct communication with Yale administration and Senator representation on university-wide committees. Find out more OTHER HAPPENINGS IN THE G&P COMMUNITY Check our Twitter! Yale Graduate & Professional Student Senate (GPSS) Going to Spring Fling Monday? Stop by Gryphon's Pub Courtyard for some free food and drink to fuel up before the sp… https://t.co/lQt4tqtAjw Apr 29, 2022, 1:16 AM Yale Graduate & Professional Student Senate (GPSS) RT @InSiliConjurer: This week, I was both awarded the Yale BBS Annie Le fellowship for academic and service excellence and elected the… https://t.co/CxkuvFPrcx Apr 29, 2022, 1:10 AM Yale Graduate & Professional Student Senate (GPSS) RT @InSiliConjurer: Feat @yalesenate, @InSiliConjurer, @scottgigante, and @YaleForward https://t.co/UV3ugb3Z76 Apr 29, 2022, 1:09 AM Inspiring Yale Yale University is an amazing institution, filled with interesting and stimulating ideas. Yale not only offers the broadest range of academic and professional disciplines than any other university, but also values cross-pollination and collaboration. Learn more Welcome Online-Image video links resources intro banner intro calendar description HOME – ABOUT – INSPIRING YALE – NAVIGATING YALE – THE GRYPHON – RESOURCES – FUNDING – RESOLUTIONS Designed by visuable