Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying to Princeton Deadlines and Fees File Upload Requirements Statement of Academic Purpose Resume/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) English Language Tests Writing Sample Statement of Financial Resources View Your Checklist Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Prospective Inquiry I-9 Information FAQ Application Reapplying Recommenders Transcripts VSRC - Nondegree English Language Test Scores Prerequisite Test Scores Applying to Princeton 1Eligibility for Admission To be eligible for admission to the Graduate School applicants must, before they are enrolled, hold a bachelor’s degree or its foreign equivalent from an accredited college or university. (Foreign equivalents may in some cases have a normal program length that is shorter or longer than four years. No degree that has a normal program length shorter than three years will be considered equivalent to a bachelor's degree.) The applicant may submit one application per year only. This one application can be to one department, program, or combined program. The Graduate School will not offer admission to an applicant seeking a second Ph.D. in the same or similar field of study. Princeton University does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, religion, national or ethnic origin, disability, or veteran status in any phase of its admission or financial aid programs, or other aspects of its educational programs or activities. 2Explore The Graduate School at Princeton University encourages interested individuals to explore our fields of study to find the field that best fits the applicant's academic and professional goals. More detailed information, including faculty listings, can typically be found on individual department and program websites accessible through our webpage. 3Prepare Graduate admission decisions at Princeton University are made by faculty in the applicant's proposed field of study. The Graduate School coordinates the admission process and establishes minimum requirements for admission, application deadlines and additional requirements vary by department and degree program. Here are some helpful tips applicants should consider: Before submitting the application, please be sure to read carefully the description of the degree program and requirements of the department. Applicants are also encouraged to review the file upload requirements to ensure successful application submission. Review appropriate deadlines and fees as departments and programs have varied application deadline dates. Please note that no late applications will be accepted and there are no refunds for submitted application fees. Be sure the statement of academic purpose outlines goals for graduate study. Finalize resume/curriculum vitae. Gather email addresses and full names of three recommenders prior to submitting the application online. Letters of recommendation will be submitted using our electronic recommendation service. Arrange to have prerequisite test scores sent to Princeton. All applicants whose native language is not English and who have not received their undergraduate education in a country where the native language is English must submit scores from one of two internationally recognized assessments of English language proficiency, the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Request transcripts. The Graduate School recognizes the significant disruption caused by COVID-19 and will take that into account for transcripts from spring 2020. While a final transcript submitted by an applicant who is offered admission must still in all cases indicate that an undergraduate degree or its international equivalent has been awarded prior to enrolling at the Graduate School, we appreciate that many applicants currently enrolled in degree programs will pursue pass/fail or other non-standard grading options during this extraordinary time. 4Apply Applicants can apply from September through December for admission commencing in the fall term of the following academic year. We do not accept late applications. There is no spring admission, and graduate study at Princeton is offered on a full-time basis. Applicants can apply only to one academic department for one degree per year. The application fee is nonrefundable. The Graduate School will not offer admission to an applicant seeking a second Ph.D. in the same or similar field of study. Princeton guarantees full tuition, fees, and a stipend for its regularly enrolled, degree-seeking Ph.D. candidates for all years of regular program enrollment, contingent upon satisfactory academic performance. Master's applicants are required to submit the Statement of Financial Resources, as part of the application, and will be considered for any funding that is available. To apply to Princeton University’s Graduate School, please submit an application. Our application process is fully electronic. The University GDPR Privacy Notice is available on the University Registrar’s site. 5View Checklist After the application is submitted, the applicant will be able to view the application checklist and manage recommenders. Resources Tuition and Costs Fields of Study Admission FAQ Department Application Deadlines Princeton Service Portal Applying to Princeton Deadlines and Fees File Upload Requirements Statement of Academic Purpose Resume/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) English Language Tests Writing Sample Statement of Financial Resources View Your Checklist Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Prospective Inquiry I-9 Information FAQ Application Reapplying Recommenders Transcripts VSRC - Nondegree English Language Test Scores Prerequisite Test Scores Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University