Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Award Opportunities » Provost Fellowship Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Provost Graduate Fellowship The UC Graduate School is proud to offer the Provost Graduate Fellowship (PGF): grants for promising new PhD students whose presence diversifies our institution and the academy. Generously funded by Provost Valerio Ferme and the Office of the Provost, these awards signify the commitment of UC's leadership to making graduate education mirror the demographics of American society. Increasing the share of underrepresented ethnic or racial minorities as recipients of doctoral degrees diversifies the Graduate School and our pipeline of future academic talent. The Graduate School will offer up to three PGF awards per year to incoming PhD students, with each winner receiving three years of a full-tuition scholarship in addition to a yearly living stipend of $25,000. Annual renewal will depend on the student's continued good academic standing and satisfactory progress toward degree completion. The fellowships will require no work commitments. Please contact the Provost Graduate Fellowship email (pgf@uc.edu) with questions Fellowship Benefits and Responsibilities The Provost Graduate Fellowship (PGF) provides three years of funding, which includes a tuition scholarship for 3 years and an annual stipend of $25,000 for 3 years. Provost Fellows are also provided access to additional funds to defray some of the cost of Student Health Insurance. Student who purchase this university-supplied insurance receive up to $1,000/year for 3 years. When this benefit is combined with the GSHI award for graduate assistants and fellows, the yearly cost of the single-student health insurance coverage is negligible. As part of nominating a student for the PGF, the graduate program devises a mentoring and academic support plan for the applicant. All Provost Fellows enter their graduate program with a designated "Provost Fellowship mentor" and a clear plan to support the fellow from matriculation to graduation. First year fellows are required to attend monthly professional development meetings with their fellow Provost and Yates Fellows (class schedule permitting). The first required meeting will be a half-day fellowship orientation, prior to the start of fall classes. The PGF & Yates program also hosts social events to allow fellows to get to know and network with each other in a more casual setting. (These social events are optional to attend.) Fellows are also required to complete and submit an Individual Development Plan annually, for every year they receive PGF funding. New and revised/updated IDPs will typically be due to the Graduate School in spring semester, in early April. Once the fellow has received all three years of PFG funding, they are encouraged, but no longer required, to submit an annual IDP to the Graduate School. Current Award Cycle Each PhD program may submit no more than one nomination. Nominations will be due Courtney Becker (beckercu@uc.edu) by 5 p.m. on Monday, February 7, 2022. Provost Graduate Fellowship Program Description (PDF) (To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download.) Provost Graduate Fellowship Coverletter/Checklist for Nomination (DOCX) Eligibility PhD admits from ethnic minorities underrepresented in the nominating program are eligible for a Provost Fellowship at the time they matriculate. Students entering other types of doctoral degree programs are not eligible for this award. It is limited to new students entering a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) program. Nominating programs/departments must document that the student's demographic origin is underrepresented within the graduate program to the satisfaction of the selection committee. Students of ethnicities underrepresented in the nominating program are eligible for a Provost Fellowship. Underrepresented minorities include, but are not limited to, the following groups: African American Asian/Pacific Islander Latino/a or Hispanic American Native American/Alaskan Native Students must be entering a PhD program in Fall Semester 2022 as a full-time student (taking at least 12 graduate credits). Students who are currently in a UC graduate program or have already received a UC graduate degree are not eligible for the PGF. Students who have earned an undergraduate degree from UC are still eligible. Award Structure The Graduate School will provide full tuition-remission funding for each Provost Graduate Fellow for three consecutive academic years. In addition, each awardee will receive a living stipend of $25,000 per year in each of these three years; the stipend will be disbursed throughout twelve months, which means it will provide summer support. This fellowship provides no funding to cover fees of any kind. To maintain eligibility for funding as a Provost Fellow, the student must be registered for at least 12 credits/term in the fall and spring semesters, remain in good academic standing (GPA 3.0 or greater), and make satisfactory progress toward degree completion. First year fellows will also be required to attend monthly meetings (organized by the Graduate School) with their fellow Provost Graduate Fellows and Yates Fellows, class schedule permitting. Neither the tuition scholarship nor stipend may not be associated with any work assignments. However, students may accept work assignments from other funding sources if they wish. Each Provost Fellow will also have access to additional funds to defray some of the cost of Graduate Student Health Insurance. If students need this university-supplied insurance, they will receive up to $1,000 per year for the three years in which they hold this fellowship. When this benefit is combined with the GSHI award for graduate assistants and fellows, the yearly cost of health insurance will be negligible. Please direct questions to the Provost Graduate Fellowship email (pgf@uc.edu). Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top