Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Epidemiology Ph.D. school School of Public Health Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Ph.D. program in Epidemiology provides students with the training to become independent researchers in academia, government and industry. Using sophisticated study designs, statistical analyses, field investigations, and laboratory techniques, epidemiology students investigate the cause of a disease, its distribution (geographic, ecological, and social), method of transmission, and measures for control and prevention. All students in the Doctoral Program in Epidemiology are required to demonstrate mastery of advanced epidemiologic methods, which is assessed via coursework and examinations. As a result of Brown's commitment to high quality education, all students admitted into the PhD program receive full scholarships that include tuition, healthcare and a research-assistant-based stipend for five years of graduate study (see Financial Support page for more details). Additional Resources Epidemiology faculty are members of the Department of Epidemiology and the School of Public Health, which are home to several world-class research centers, such as the Center for Population Health and Clinical Epidemiology, the Center for Gerontology and Health Services Research, the Centers for Alcohol and Addiction Studies, the International Health Institute, the Centers for Behavioral and Preventive Medicine and the Center for Statistical Sciences. Students in epidemiology have the opportunity to collaborate and conduct research with faculty at many of these centers. Major areas of faculty activity include cardiovascular disease, nutritional epidemiology, cancer, mental illness, HIV/AIDS, international health, and others. Two particular strengths of the program in epidemiology are a high faculty to student ratio, providing excellent opportunities for supervised research, and the opportunity to pursue a minor concentration in health services research. Admission Information Inquire Apply Application in SOPHAS. Comprehensive application requirements are detailed on the School of Public Health's admissions requirements website. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: International Applicants: Language Proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS if applicable) Official Transcripts: Required International Applicants: Transcript Evaluation (if applicable) Letters of Recommendations: 3 Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: Application Fee Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements For all Ph.D. students, 24 credits are required of students matriculating in the program without a master's degree; 16 are required beyond the master's. For those with a related master's degree, up to eight units can be transferred. Both written and oral exams, plus a dissertation comprising an original contribution to the field, also are required. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Francesca Beaudoin francesca_beaudoin@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Chanelle Howe chanelle_howe@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Epidemiology Mailing Address Brown University Box G-S121, 2nd Floor Epidemiology@brown.edu 401-863-6459 Visit the Department of Epidemiology Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Public Health Career Outcomes Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Epidemiology Open details for Epidemiology Bookmark this Page