Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Award Opportunities » Dean's Fellowship Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Dean’s Dissertation Completion Fellowship The Graduate School Dean's Fellowship typically awards five fellowships annually to doctoral students in the final year of degree work to support superior scholarship that enhances the reputation of their program, department and the University of Cincinnati. The recipients of this award are recommended by a faculty committee and sanctioned by the dean of the Graduate School. The awards are presented spring semester, and each award includes a $20,000 fellowship and a full one-year tuition scholarship. Current Award Cycle Eligible students are those with dissertation committees established, who will have all coursework completed by the beginning of the fall 2022 semester, and who are sufficiently advanced in their dissertation research and writing to be able to commit credibly to graduating by the end of the fellowship year. The purpose of this award is to support students in their final year of study. Therefore, awardees, their mentors, and their graduate program directors must sign an acknowledgement that (1) affirms their shared commitment to graduate by the conclusion of the fellowship year, and (2) signals that their acceptance of this award precludes the student from receiving any further university (UGA or GIA/GAS) funding for this degree program in the future, in the event that the student does not graduate during the academic year. Nominations should not include those who will graduate prior to spring term 2023, nor those who are ineligible for funding in fall 2022 or spring 2023 due to the 174 graduate credit rule. Nominations are limited to one from each doctoral program and are made by the graduate program director in consultation with program faculty. The director’s letter of nomination must attest that the dissertation is proceeding on schedule for graduation by summer 2023, as must the recommendation from the student’s dissertation advisor. The expectation is that recipients will produce superior scholarship that enhances the reputations of their programs, departments, and the University of Cincinnati, and that enables them to finish all graduation requirements and receive their degrees by the end of the award term. Nominations will be due to the Graduate School by 5 p.m. on December 13, 2021 (extended deadline). Submit materials electronically to megan.tischner@uc.edu via email or shared OneDriver folder. The programs and nominators are responsible for submitting all requested materials for the fellowship. Programs will NOT be notified if materials are missing and the nominee will NOT be allowed to add anything missing or update materials after the deadline. Announcement of awardees will be made by February 1, 2022. Please direct questions to megan.tischner@uc.edu. Submission Requirements Letter of nomination by the graduate program director. The letter must include: (a) verification that the dissertation is proceeding on schedule for graduation by the summer 2023 term, (b) what funds are currently supporting the applicant, and (c) when the applicant passed the qualifying examination. Separate statement from program providing the student’s total earned graduate credit hours (as of the end of the fall semester, 21FS) and the number of credit hours the student is planning to take for the 2022 spring and summer semesters. A recommendation letter from the student’s dissertation chair verifying the status of the dissertation research and writing and attesting that the student will complete the thesis and receive the degree by the end of the fellowship term. At least one other letter of recommendation from a professor familiar with the student’s academic and creative or research/scholarly accomplishments. Student submission of a statement (up to two pages) describing creative and/or scholarly accomplishments, especially the significance in the discipline. A curriculum vitae that includes current contact information for the student. Student submission of plans (up to two pages) for the dissertation work during the fellowship year, including (a) approximate date of dissertation defense and graduation term and (b) number of credits still required to complete the degree before the start of the proposed academic year. The actual dissertation completed to date (e.g., in the humanities and social sciences, the actual dissertation chapters already written; in the natural and applied sciences, other evidence of research and writing that substantiates the student’s promise to complete the degree by the end of the fellowship term). Note that the committee is not asking for a writing sample, but rather for actual dissertation work that has already been completed, which the committee will use to assess the persuasiveness of the candidate’s and the program’s promise to graduate within the award term. A completed, signed agreement (docx file) in which the student, mentor, and graduate program director acknowledge the fellowship requirement to complete the degree by the end of the award term, along with the understanding of loss of eligibility for any future university (including departmental) funding should the recipient not achieve this goal. By 5 p.m. on Monday, Dec. 13, 2021, submit fellowship applications and supporting documents identified with authorship and nominee’s name to Megan Tischner. Whenever possible, submit all materials electronically as a single PDF in the order listed above. Applications may be emailed or submitted via shared cloud folder to megan.tischner@uc.edu. Fellowship Responsibilities Register full-time (12 credits or more) for fall and spring semester, 2022–23. Register for ENGL 9010, Interdisciplinary Dissertation Workshop course, in summer 2022 or fall 2022. No teaching or research employment at UC or elsewhere. Participation in the annual UC Graduate School Three Minute Thesis competition in February 2023. With suitable justification and documentation of a timing conflict (to be adjudicated by the Graduate School’s Director), the student may replace this requirement with an alternative presentation of research results in another venue. Acknowledgement of the Graduate School Dean's Fellowship in publications resulting from work done during the fellowship year. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top