Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying to Princeton Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Prospective Inquiry I-9 Information FAQ Application Reapplying Recommenders Transcripts VSRC - Nondegree English Language Test Scores Prerequisite Test Scores Frequently Asked Questions English Language Test Scores I see the test dates but not the test scores on my checklist, have you received my scores? Yes. You will not see test scores on your checklist. If you see a date, it means the scores have been received. I see a test date on my checklist, but it is not the date I took the TOEFL or IELTS. What should I do? Send an email to gsadmit@princeton.edu. Include your name as it appears on your application, name as it appears on the TOEFL OR IELTS report if different, the test date, your date of birth, and the email you used for the exam. When is the last date I can take the TOEFL or IELTS? You should take the TOEFL OR IELTS no later than three weeks before the application deadline. Do you accept TOEFL or IELTS scores received after the deadline? Test scores received after the deadline will still be matched to your application; however, faculty may have already begun their review of your application without your test scores. No offers of admission will be made if required scores are not in the application. I had my TOEFL or IELTS scores sent and submitted my application but still do not see the test dates on my application checklist. What should I do? If it has been more than three weeks since you took your TOEFL OR IELTS or had your TOEFL OR IELTS scores sent AND more than seven business days since you submitted your application, you can email gsadmit@princeton.edu. Include your name as it appears on your application, name as it appears on the TOEFL OR IELTS report if different, the test date, your date of birth, and the email address you used for the exam. Do you accept more than one TOEFL or IELTS score? Yes. We will consider the highest score from each section, but the department has the ability to see all scores and components. How are multiple TOEFL or IELTS scores considered? We consider the highest score from each section, but the department has the ability to see all scores and components. Will you waive the TOEFL or IELTS? Please see: http://gradschool.princeton.edu/english-language-tests. All of my education was conducted in English; do I still need to submit TOEFL or IELTS scores? If you were in a country where the native language is not English, you need to submit TOEFL or IELTS scores. I earned a master’s degree in a country where the NATIVE language is English, do I still need to take the TOEFL or IELTS? Yes. English is an official language in my country, do I still need to submit TOEFL or IELTS scores? If English is not your native language, yes. I have been working in the USA for years; do I still need to take the TOEFL or IELTS? Yes. My native language is not English, but I got my bachelor degree in India, Pakistan, the Philippines, Hong Kong, Nigeria, or Singapore, do I need to submit TOEFL or IELTS scores? Yes. Can I submit any other English language proficiency exam scores instead of TOEFL or IELTS? No. I applied to the Graduate School at Princeton University before, do I need to send TOEFL or IELTS scores again? If we have your scores on file and they are still valid, you do not need to send them again. If we have scores on file that expire between July 1 and December 31 of this year we will accept them for this admission cycle. If your scores expired before July 1 of this year, you will need to send valid scores What is the minimum TOEFL or IELTS score requirement? The Graduate School does not have a minimum TOEFL or IELTS score requirement. If you are offered admission and accept our offer and have scored below a 27 on the Speaking sub-section of the TOEFL iBT or below an 8.0 on the Speaking sub-section of the IELTS you will be required to take an English placement test at the start of the fall term. Students who do not pass the test will be required to enroll in English Language Program classes. The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs requires a minimum score of 100 IBT for the TOEFL and 7.0 for the IELTS. I cannot afford to take the TOEFL or IELTS exam, can I take it only if I get admitted? No. We will not make an offer of admission without required TOEFL or IELTS scores. When are TOEFL or IELTS scores due? TOEFL OR IELTS scores should be received by the department deadline. What is the Institution code for TOEFL? 2672 Should I wait to submit my application until after I take the TOEFL or IELTS? No, you can submit your application as soon as it is ready. If we have your application on file when the scores are received, we will match the scores to your application within seven business days. The TOEFL asks for the department, but mine is not listed. What should I do? Please select: Department not listed/Unknown. All TOEFL score reports are received by Graduate Admission regardless of which department code is selected. How do I know if you received my TOEFL or IELTS scores? If you have submitted your application, you will see the test dates on the submitted application checklist if the scores have matched. You will not see the test scores. I selected a department code but your website says you do not require a department code. Do I need to have the scores sent again? No, you do not need to have the scores sent again. All TOEFL score reports are received by Graduate Admission regardless of which department code is selected. Where do I enter the TOEFL or IELTS scores on my application? You do not. We only accept official TOEFL OR IELTS score reports sent from the test administrator. How should I have my IELTS score report sent to Princeton University? Please contact your test center and have your score report sent electronically through e-download to Princeton University. They will ask for the mailing address which is: Princeton University Graduate Admission One Clio Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 Applying to Princeton Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Prospective Inquiry I-9 Information FAQ Application Reapplying Recommenders Transcripts VSRC - Nondegree English Language Test Scores Prerequisite Test Scores Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University