Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Explore international graduate study The University of Kansas is the ideal institution to earn your graduate degree. Located in the heart of the U.S., in the city of Lawrence, KU is a major teaching and research university — one of just 36 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities (AAU). GRADUATE ACADEMICS Schools and departments You’ll earn your graduate degree in one of KU’s 14 schools. The biggest is the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences — often simply called the College — and home to over 100 graduate programs. Outside the College, Jayhawks embark on graduate study in architecture and design, business, engineering, and more. All schools and departments Applied English Center Depending on your level of English proficiency, you may be required to complete coursework through KU’s Applied English Center (AEC) to enter graduate study. With the help of experienced instructors, the AEC prepares non-native English-speaking Jayhawks linguistically, academically, and culturally. Applied English Center Multilingual writing assistance The KU Writing Center offers specialized support and tutoring services for non-native English writers. From basic questions to bigger concerns, the center’s team of experts will go one-on-one with students to help them craft the writing projects common to graduate study. KU Writing Center International Students 50+ ranked graduate programs 16% international graduate students 100+ nationalities represented International Support Services International Support Services (ISS) offers support to students from outside the U.S., as well as opportunities to get involved in the campus community and meaningfully connect with other Jayhawks. ISS also provides immigration support, assisting international students in maintaining their legal status. International Support Services International Student Association For over 50 years, the International Student Association (ISA) has brought together Jayhawks of all nationalities, hosting regular events and introducing students to the many cultures represented in the KU community. For Jayhawks new to the U.S., ISA is the perfect introduction to stateside student living. Visit the ISA Clubs and organizations Jayhawks share and celebrate their identities through over 130 multicultural clubs and organizations. Clubs are the perfect way to meet students with similar backgrounds, or get to know those different from your own. Rock Chalk Central Lawrence, Kansas Life in Lawrence — a historic city of 100,000 — is uniquely Kansan. We experience four distinct seasons, with average temperatures ranging from -2.0° C (28.4° F) to 32° C (90° F). Kansas City, about 45 minutes east, is home to professional sports, major corporations, and an international airport. Explore Lawrence Orientation All admitted graduate students in F-1 and J-1 status are required to attend International Support Service’s multi-day Orientation program. There, you’ll enroll in courses, attend various events and activities, explore campus and the city of Lawrence, and learn everything you’ll need to make a smooth transition to International Orientation Costs and tuition Your cost to attend KU will depend on a few key personal details. Use our calculator to determine your estimated tuition, fees, and living expenses. Do the math Get started Ready to apply? Learn about the international admissions process or start your application. For more information, sign up for our mailing list. Apply to KU Apply to KU See requirements See requirements Request info Request info graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.