Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Finances : Fund for Academic Enrichment Fund for Academic Enrichment The Academic Enrichment Fund supports workshops, graduate courses, seminars, exhibitions and academic conferences that enhance the graduate educational experience at UT Austin. The application process for the 2022 - 2023 Academic Enrichment Fund will open on June 1, 2022. Eligibility All faculty members are eligible to apply. However, only individuals and organizations who have not yet received funds will be considered during the first submission cycle. Designated Funds Some funds are designated for the following activities: Hosting scholars affiliated with an academic institution in Great Britain Exchanging faculty members and business leaders between the University and Monterrey, Mexico for research and lectures Scope of Use Funds are primarily awarded to cover travel, accommodations and honoraria for guest speakers. Funds will not be awarded for receptions, group meals, equipment, room rentals or services such as parking and printing. Funds are not available for student or faculty conference travel. Preference is given to programs and activities that have additional sources of funding, or matching funds—rarely will the program fund the full cost of a program. This is not a cash award, and expenditures must follow standard university procedures and policies. Non-expended funds will revert back to the Graduate School and cannot be used toward programs or expenditures not approved in the award notification letter. Funds awarded must be used within the 2022 - 2023 academic year. Application Process All applications must be submitted through the Graduate School Awards portal by July 1, 2022. Application materials should include: Contact information. A brief description of the academic program or activity. Estimated cost with a detailed budget, which should include all other sources of funding. A clear request for a specific dollar amount. A brief statement describing how this activity or program will benefit graduate students at The University of Texas at Austin. Table of Contents Eligibility Scope of Use Application Process Questions If you have questions about the fund, contact Danielle Thoma. Past Programs the AEF has Funded List of Programs Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022