Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Mathematics Ph.D. school Graduate School department Mathematics Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Mathematics program is designed to prepare especially able students for a career in mathematical research and instruction. A relatively small enrollment of 30 to 40 students permits small classes and close contact with faculty. Applicants should have a good background in undergraduate mathematics, regardless of their majors. Students with backgrounds in advanced mathematics will find our program quite flexible. Visits to Brown and direct communication with the director of graduate study are strongly encouraged. The core courses are in differentiable manifolds, real functions, complex functions, algebra, and topology. Other courses offered each year are in P.D.E., probability, algebraic geometry, number theory and differential geometry. Additional Resources The library contains one of the finest mathematical collections available anywhere. The department has extensive computing facilities. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 1, 2022 Completion Requirements Advancement to candidacy determined in part by qualification in the basic and advanced courses; teaching experience; examination on an advanced topic; expository talk based on a research paper in that subject; dissertation; and oral defense. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Jeffrey Hoffstein jeffrey_hoffstein@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Thomas Goodwillie thomas_goodwillie@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Mathematics Mailing Address Brown University Box 1917 info@math.brown.edu 401-863-2708 Visit the Department of Mathematics Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Mathematics Open details for Mathematics Bookmark this Page