Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Graduate School of Medical Sciences Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options News Seminars Student Research Thesis Defenses Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Vincent du Vigneaud Annual Research Symposium Newsletter Annual AwardsToggle Annual Awards menu options Alumni Award of Distinction Excellence in Teaching and Mentoring Award Julian R. Rachele Prize Student Service Award Vincent du Vigneaud Symposium Awards WCM Graduate Student Fellowships AdmissionsToggle Admissions menu options Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers AcademicsToggle Academics menu options PhD ProgramsToggle PhD Programs menu options BCMB Allied ProgramToggle BCMB Allied Program menu options Biochemistry & Structural Biology Cell & Developmental Biology Molecular Biology Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems BiologyToggle Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology menu options PBSB Program at Houston Methodist Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Master's ProgramsToggle Master's Programs menu options Health Sciences for Physician AssistantsToggle Health Sciences for Physician Assistants menu options PA Program Certificate Ceremony-Class of 2021 PA Program Matriculation Ceremony Clinical & Translational Investigation Clinical Epidemiology Population Health SciencesToggle Population Health Sciences menu options Biostatistics and Data Science Health Informatics Health Policy and Economics Computational Biology Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Biomedical Imaging Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate ResearchToggle Summer Undergraduate Research menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Engineering Summer Program Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student ExperienceToggle Student Experience menu options Student FormsToggle Student Forms menu options Alumni Contact Information Form Student ServicesToggle Student Services menu options Office of the Registrar Housing Student Government (GSEC) Diversity and InclusionToggle Diversity and Inclusion menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Esprit de Corps Student Clubs and InitiativesToggle Student Clubs and Initiatives menu options Badminton Club (GSEC) Biotech Club Early STEM Outreach Club Hockey Team (GSEC) Science & Education Policy Association (SEPA) Soccer Club (GSEC) Softball Club (GSEC) The Science Communication Club (GSEC) Tri-I Outreach Club (TORC) Volleyball Club (GSEC) WCMC Book Club (GSEC) Yoga Club Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing ResourcesToggle Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources menu options Fellowship Opportunities Meet our fellows Weill Cornell Graduate School Fellowship Award Policies Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Admissions Academics Student Experience Faculty Our Trainees Home Academics PhD Programs PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Neuroscience BCMB Allied Program Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Neuroscience Overview Graduate Programs and PhD Programs in Neuroscience at Weill Cornell Graduate School study the nervous system from a wide variety of scientific disciplines. Students interact closely with faculty studying the nervous system from a wide variety of scientific disciplines, including molecular genetics, biochemistry, pharmacology, neuroanatomy, electrophysiology, and computational and systems neuroscience. They work at the molecular, cellular and organism systems, ranging from insects to rodents to human and non-human primates. Focus areas in the program of study include: neural disease, synaptic transmission, developmental neurobiology and regeneration, vision, computational and systems neuroscience, and neuropharmacology. The nearly 50 faculty members in the program come from Weill Cornell Medical College (WCMC), Sloan-Kettering Institute (SKI, part of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center) and Burke-Cornell Medical Research Institute. The research interests of the program cover the entire range of neuroscience, including the regulation of neural development, neuronal plasticity, control of neurotransmitter synthesis and release, learning, the response of neurons and neural tissue to injury, the regulation of gene expression, endocrine function, circuit development, vision and other sensory systems, information processing and behavior. The basic science of developmental neurobiology explores the elementary processes by which the brain forms (morphogenesis), structure is established (histogenesis), neuronal and glial subtypes are specified from progenitors, connections are established and operates. Discoveries about the way that neurons form and communicate make this field one of the most promising routes toward increasing our understanding of the brain and mind. Genetics research in neurology and psychiatry is an exciting, rapidly advancing field that looks at the etiology of disease, as well as works to identify genetic predictors of disease, likely responses to available treatment and avenues to new therapies. Studies of epigenetic effects are opening a new perspective on "nature versus nurture" issues in brain development at the molecular level. Development and function of the nervous system as a unifying theme of the Neuroscience program is reflected in the work at The Sackler Institute for Developmental Psychobiology. This institute is engaged in research on typical and atypical brain development. A primary objective is to use new techniques to study developing children in order to transform clinical methods. The Institute's program of research and training emphasizes functional neuroimaging, and genetic and behavioral influences on cognitive and emotional development. The Institute is both wide ranging and influential in its technical approaches to the study of children. It has become one of the best research centers in the world for the neurocognitive study of children. Research is also ongoing in the fields of cerebrovascular physiology, cerebral ischemia, cellular and system neurophysiology, cellular and molecular neurobiology, neuroanatomy at the light and ultrastructural level, and imaging. Translational research links many of the areas of basic science to clinical problems. Particular translational areas include studies in humans with brain injury, neural tube defect (spina bifida, anencephaly) and cortical malformations, neurodegenerative diseases, epilepsy, neuroimmunological and behavioral disorders. Many members of the program have a special interest in questions that are particularly relevant to human disease, and their research has important implications for topics such as stem cell therapeutics, the regulation of pain, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, neural tumors, stroke, addiction, aging, brain malformations, epilepsy, autism and neuropsychiatric illnesses. Related Links 2021-2022 Neuroscience Handbook Program Requirements Admissions Applicants to the program are expected to have had thorough undergraduate training in biology, psychology, organic chemistry, physics and/or mathematics. Candidates must apply for admission online. Applicants are not required to take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Applicants whose native language is not English are required to take the TOEFL examination. Becoming a Doctoral Candidate The course of study, which includes course work, seminars, laboratory rotations and thesis research, is individualized. Students are expected to work closely with members of the faculty whose research approach complements their own interests. Regularly scheduled seminars, where work in progress is presented and discussed, afford students the broadest possible view of the neurosciences and are an important component of their graduate training. Laboratory rotations allow students to experience research first hand and to acquaint themselves with the program's research faculty. Students are expected to complete at least three rotations of three months each, but may complete additional rotations, before choosing a thesis advisor (major sponsor). Prior to July 1st of year two, students must successfully complete the ACE (Admission to Candidacy Examination). The ACE is designed to test the student's general knowledge of neuroscience and also includes preparation of an original written research proposal. In consultation with the thesis advisor, and with the consent of the director of the program, the student chooses an ACE topic and committee. The ACE topic should not be a part of the thesis. The committee should consist of 3-4 examiners, including a designated chair from the neuroscience graduate faculty, the student's thesis advisor and two grad faculty with expertise in the topic. With submission of the ACE the student should submit a one page thesis proposal. PhD Research and Degree Thesis research is completed usually within four to six years from enrollment in the program, under the direction of the student's major faculty sponsor. The Special Committee advises the student in his or her research, meeting at least annually with the student to monitor progress and to oversee development of the thesis. During this time the student continues to participate in the other educational programs offered by the graduate program but works full time in the laboratory. Annual special committee meetings are mandatory. Upon completion of the thesis, the student prepares the work for publication, presents it to the University in an open seminar, and defends the validity of the work before the Special Committee and the members of the program. The culmination of the student's successful progression through the program is the final examination (the "defense") and certification by the Special Committee that the thesis represents an official piece of research satisfying the requirements of the Graduate School for the PhD degree. Student Stories Neuroscience Jean Rivera I’m a firm believer that in order to excel in something, you must be passionate about it. Combining my passion for science with the drive to help others motivated me to enroll in a Ph.D. program at Weill Cornell. Read Full Story... Neuroscience Baila Hall I chose Weill Cornell for my graduate studies because not only was the research high level and cutting edge, but the community was collaborative and engaging. Read Full Story... Neuroscience Raphael Bendriem "Faculty members are approachable and supportive. I feel comfortable dropping by their lab to ask for advice, lab-related or not." Read Full Story... Research Topics Addiction Neural Networks Neuro-oncology Neurobiology Neurodegeneration Neurodevelopment Neurovascular Biology Faculty Anrather, Josef Blasberg, Ronald Burre, Jacqueline Calderon, Diany Cho, Sunghee Colak, Dilek DeMarco, Natalia Dittman, Jeremy Eliezer, David Gan, Li Gardner, Daniel Gibson, Gary Glass, Michael Goldstein, Peter Grafstein, Bernice Hempstead, Barbara Hochrainer, Karin Hollis, Edmund Holodny, Andrei Horner, Philip Huang, Xin Yun Iadecola, Costantino Inturrisi, Charles Ishii, Makoto Jaffrey, Samie Joyner, Alexandra Kosofsky, Barry Kuceyeski, Amy Lai, Eric Lane, Diane Lee, Francis Levin, Lonny Li, Yueming Liston, Conor Manfredi, Giovanni Milner, Teresa Nikolov, Dimitar Nimigean, Crina Orr, Anna Petsko, Gregory Pickel, Virginia Pitt, Geoffrey Pleil, Kristen Prusky, Glen Purpura, Keith Raj, Ashish Rajadhyaksha, Anjali Ratan, Rajiv Rodriguez-Boulan, Enrique Ross, M. Elizabeth Ryan, Timothy Sagdullaev, Botir Schiff, Nicholas Sharma, Manu Simon, David Studer, Lorenz Sung, Ching-Hwa Tabar, Viviane Tilgner, Hagen Toth, Miklos Victor, Jonathan Vierbuchen, Thomas Volpe, Bruce Wagner, John Willis, Dianna Yoshida, Yukuta Zhong, Jian Courses Addiction and Society Biology of Neural Diseases Development and Learning Seminar From Neuron to the Brain: An Introduction to Neuroscience Logic and Experimental Design Mathematical Structures in Neuroscience Neuroscience 444–Drug Development: A Disease Business Approach Neuroscience Faculty and Their Research Progress in Neuroscience Seminar Series Research Proposals and Scientific Journalism: Inspiration, Writing and Evaluation Responsible Conduct of Research Leadership Program Chair Ross, M. Elizabeth Program Director Manfredi, Giovanni Program Coordinator Dua, Maullika Ready to start? Apply now Need more info? Ask a question Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School of Medical Sciences 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 Jump To Top Our Location Graduate School of Medical Sciences Contact Us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 About Us WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and Events Newsletter Annual Awards Admissions Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers Academics PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student Experience Student Forms Student Services Diversity and Inclusion Student Clubs and Initiatives Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance