Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Services & Resources : Counseling & Mental Health Counseling & Mental Health The university’s Counseling and Mental Health Center can help you manage the daily stresses and challenges of student life. The center provides short-term individual counseling, psychiatric services and group counseling. It regularly offers group meetings designed for graduate students, and has a self-guided MindBody Lab to help students explore various resources for improving their emotional and physical health, including biofeedback tools and guided exercises on relaxation techniques, sleep issues and meditation. Crisis Line The center offers telephone crisis counseling to students. This confidential service is available 24 hours a day, every day of the year, including holidays. Call at your convenience, from the privacy of your home: 512-471-CALL (2255). Read More Behavior Concerns Advice Line The Behavior Concerns Advice Line (BCAL) serves as a central resource for those with concerns about other members of the UT Austin community. The BCAL is available 24 hours a day: 512-232-5050. Read More Resource Guide to Mental Health Services for Graduate Students Resource Guide to Mental Health Services for Graduate Students and Graduate Programs Download here Voices Against Violence The center addresses issues of dating/relationship violence, sexual violence and stalking through its Voices Against Violence program. Read More Hours & Location The Counseling and Mental Health Center, located in the Student Services Building, 100 W. Dean Keaton Street, is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022