Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : How to Apply Graduate Readmission Graduate Readmission Following a break in enrollment of one long semester or more, graduate students at The University of Texas at Austin must apply for readmission. Complete the Online Application Applicants for readmission to a graduate program should complete the online Application for Readmission to Graduate Study (UT EID and password required). Pay the Application Fee Pay your non-refundable $65 application fee via What I Owe (MasterCard, Discover and electronic checks accepted). Leaves of Absence If you were granted a leave of absence prior to your departure, the application fee will be waived automatically. Decisions Students applying for readmission are notified of the graduate program’s decision to admit or deny by letter. The graduate adviser may place conditions on the readmission, and is responsible for notifying the student of the conditions. Students who left while subject to a warning must have the approval of the graduate dean to return. Doctoral candidates who fail to register continuously and who have not been granted a leave of absence must be readmitted to candidacy as well as to the graduate program. The Graduate Studies Committee and the graduate dean must approve readmission to candidacy and may impose additional coursework. Quick Links Change of Graduate Major Table of Contents Complete the Online Application Pay the Application Fee Leaves of Absence Decisions Readmission Application Deadlines Summer: May 1 Fall: Aug. 1 Spring: Dec. 1 Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022