Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Private Educational Loans Breadcrumb Home Types of Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Private Educational Loans Private educational loans are available to domestic and international graduate students. All graduate students who are U.S. domestic or international students can apply for private educational loans. While U.S. citizenship is not a requirement, the majority of private educational loan lenders require that the borrower designate a co-signer who is a U.S. citizen/permanent resident with favorable credit history. Students have the right to pursue and borrow from any private lender of their choosing. Students must complete any private loan application through the lender and not through Brown. The application processes for private loans vary by lender. Eligible graduate students are encouraged to exhaust need based Federal Student Loans before applying for credit-based loans. When applying for a private educational loan: Be sure to select Brown University Graduate Financial Aid on the lender’s website, and not simply Brown University as your school choice. You will be eligible to borrow up to your program’s annual cost of attendance. Note that interest rates, terms and conditions vary by lender. Visit Brown’s Loan Office website for information and a historical list of private educational loan lenders. Review the recommended loan filing dates based on the initial billing date of your program. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Private Educational Loans Open details for Private Educational Loans Bookmark this Page