Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School Academics ACADEMICS Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Individual attention and access to cutting-edge research and scholarship put TU’s Graduate School at the top of the list. The reasons students select TU are often the reasons they decided to pursue graduate studies in the first place. Our graduate students want to… Be exposed to some of the best minds in their chosen field. Learn as much as they can in that field. Advance in their careers. TU is in a unique position to offer our graduate students the best features of a small college and a large, comprehensive university. Small size and close student-faculty interaction Our graduate students are integral, vital members of research teams and work individually with faculty members who are leaders in their fields. They also work closely with faculty members in charting the course of their graduate studies. Flexible programs and professional opportunities TU provides a variety of course offerings, faculty and professional advising, student services and extensive research opportunities. At TU, graduate students acquire first-hand experience through research, internships or practica, with the opportunity to publish their findings and present their research at conferences. Our students know what it is like to work in their field before they enter it as a professional. And in many cases, they graduate with a job offer in hand. Our Academic Approach Graduate education at The University of Tulsa is based upon a belief that effective graduate education takes place both on and off campus: in classrooms, laboratories, and libraries, but also through internships and practica, study abroad experiences, and attending academic conferences to present research. Our faculty engages in research as part of an active international community of scholars, ensuring their students are up-to-date on the latest ideas, information and technology from around the world. Graduate students at TU gain a rigorous intellectual foundation in their discipline, but also the awareness and skills to investigate and solve problems in interesting and interdisciplinary ways. Graduate students work closely with faculty members, often times from several different disciplines, to address problems in engineering, sciences, business, humanities and the arts. Through this training, our graduate students are prepared to serve an ever-changing world on a global scale. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT