Skip to Navigation Skip to UConn Search Skip to Content Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. UConn University of Connecticut school of The Graduate School The Grad School Search University of Connecticut Search UConn Search University Communications Search UConn Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Index Site A-Z UConn A-Z Click to open menu The Graduate School Toggle navigation The Graduate School Home About Directory Strategic Plan BIPOC Graduate Student Support Graduate Faculty Council and Executive Committee News and Announcements Events Calendar Information for Prospective Students Incoming Students Information for New Graduate Students Orientation Mandatory Trainings Current Graduate Students Student Support Current Student Resources Academic Resources Career Support Guidance and Support Financing Resources Getting Involved News and Announcements Graduate Assistants GA Onboarding Graduate Assistantships Overview Graduate Assistant Trainings Graduate Employee Union PostDocs PostDoc Events and Updates Prospective Postdocs Policies & Benefits Resources Faculty and Staff Resources for Faculty and Staff Admissions and Recruitment Advising and Mentoring Graduate Assistantships Graduate Faculty Council & Executive Committee Managing Your Graduate Program News and Announcements Training and Professional Opportunities Academic Programs Admissions Apply to UConn Admissions Home Admission Requirements Admissions FAQs Application Fee Waivers Status Checking Request Information Financing Tuition and Fees Fellowships Graduate Assistantships Loans External Funding Graduate Financial Aid Forms Policies Contact Search this SiteSearch in https://grad.uconn.edu/>Search Steps to Apply to UConn Tour guides welcoming prospective student by having them paint the university rock 1 1. Explore our 150+ programs Start by exploring our Degree & Certificate Programs to determine which program is a good fit for you and your goals: Degree & Certificate Programs From the quality of our faculty and research facilities, to graduate student support both financially and academically, UConn programs are competitive across graduate school rankings. 2. Choose the program that's right for you After comparing programs, if you still have questions, reach out to faculty and the program through their website or fill out our form to request information. Now would be a great opportunity to schedule a campus visit with the Lodewick Visitors Center. 2 3 3. Ready to apply? Admission Requirements If you have additional questions, please visit our FAQ page. Most other questions can be answered by the programs through their individual websites. 4. Apply online Ready to apply? The online application will walk you through the application process. You can save and return to the application at any time. Apply for Admission If you would like to apply to the UConn School of Dentistry, UConn School of Law, or UConn School of Medicine , please visit their websites, review their application requirements, and apply using their separate applications. 4 5 5. Application decisions announced Once the program reaches a decision on your application it will be reviewed by The Graduate School. After that review, you’ll be notified via email that an official decision has been made on your application. In order to review an official admission decision, you must log into your Application Status Portal. If admitted, you should accept or decline your admission offer using the Reply to the Offer of Graduate Admission form by the deadline date included in your admission offer letter. For questions about application review timelines, decisions, and offers of financial support, contact your program directly. 6. Decide and accept In order to review an official admission decision, you must log into your Application Status Portal. If admitted, you should accept or decline your admission offer using the Reply to the Offer of Graduate Admission form by the deadline date included in your admission offer letter. If you decide to attend UConn, know that we’ll do everything we can to support you throughout your academic career. Accept or Decline 6 7 7. Transition to UConn Congratulations, and welcome to the UConn community of talented and enthusiastic students and alumni! Your next steps are outlined below: Information for New Graduate Students Contact Information 860-486-3617 gradschool@uconn.edu The Whetten Graduate Center, Second Floor University of Connecticut 438 Whitney Road Extension, Unit-1152 Storrs, CT 06269-1152 8:30am to 4:30pm Monday through Friday Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube COVID-19 Info for Graduate Education UConn Today Outstanding Undergraduate Advising Awards go to Pharmacy Faculty and Staff 2022 Pharmacy Student Health Fair Now on YouTube 2022 School of Pharmacy Faculty Promotions An Online Program Supports Mental Wellbeing for Parents and Children Affected by Divorce Electronic Health Record Coming to UConn Health’s NICU Upcoming Defenses Jun 1 Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense Of Cody Turner3:00pm × Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense Of Cody Turner Wednesday, June 1st, 2022 03:00 PM - 05:00 PM Storrs Campus Humanities Institute Conference Room/Zoom Doctoral Field of Study: Philosophy Dissertation Title: "A Virtue Epistemology of Brain-Computer Interface and Augmented Reality Technology" Contact Information: Michael Lynch (mplynch@uconn.edu) More Jun 2 Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense Of Lasangi Dhanapala2:00pm × Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense Of Lasangi Dhanapala Thursday, June 2nd, 2022 02:00 PM - 04:00 PM Storrs Campus https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?MTID=mae6ad51e85df8003f545e50be019a176 Development of Ultrasensitive Microfluidic Electrochemical Immunoarrays for Detection of Diagnostic Protein Biomarkers Contact Information: Prof. James Rusling, james.rusling@uconn.edu More Jun 3 Doctoral Defense Of Zachariah Sutton: "The Importance Of Identity Information In Target Extraction And Decision Making"2:00pm × Doctoral Defense Of Zachariah Sutton: "The Importance Of Identity Information In Target Extraction And Decision Making" Friday, June 3rd, 2022 02:00 PM - 04:00 PM Storrs Campus ITEB 401 Abstract: This dissertation covers two distinct topics. The first research topic covers modeling and detection of “evolving threats”. Here, an evolving threat is any "plot" that takes the form of an anomalous series of activities carried out over time by a group of "actor entities" (e.g. a military preparing for a surprise attack, or an organized crime outfit laundering money). A sentence-like structure is assumed for each observation with actor entities linked to an action. The identities of the actor entities are assumed to be observable, and are used to strengthen the detection performance. Specifically, it is shown that making use of observed actor identities allows for successful anomaly detection in higher levels of observed "clutter"---observations of benign activities not related to the anomalies. The second topic studies "cheap" central decision making by considering extremely low resolution quantization of data sent from distributed sensors. Along with measurement data, each sensor is assumed to have some identifying "label" value that is relevant to its stochastic measurement model. Measurement and label data are transmitted to the decision maker in the form of discrete "types". Censoring is also used to control the expected communication cost — each sensor decides locally whether or not to send its data to the decision center based on the value of its label as well as the value of its measurement. In this work we formalize the test statistic based on censored and quantized data. We also form a metric that is predictive of decision performance which can be maximized to obtain optimal censoring and quantization rules. A particularly interesting question that this approach can answer is: What is the best allocation of a limited communication budget between measurement and labeling information? Contact Information: zachariah.sutton@uconn.edu More Jun 3 Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense of Robert Daniels3:15pm × Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense of Robert Daniels Friday, June 3rd, 2022 03:15 PM - 06:15 PM Storrs Campus https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/meet/rod15102 Designing Modular Aromatic Polyesters for Electrochromic Dyes and Renewable Biomaterials - Chemistry Contact Information: Prof. Gregory Sotzing, g.sotzing@uconn.edu More Jun 7 Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense Of Zhenhao Gong10:00am × Doctoral Dissertation Oral Defense Of Zhenhao Gong Tuesday, June 7th, 2022 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM Storrs Campus Oak building Three Essays on Econometrics Contact Information: Min Seong Kim, min_seong.kim@uconn.edu More © University of Connecticut Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Webmaster Login University Websites Privacy Notice