Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Academics : Graduation Graduation Master’s and doctoral students nearing degree completion should begin to prepare for graduation from The University of Texas at Austin. Deadlines & Submission Instructions for Graduation From completing thesis and dissertation requirements to submitting graduation forms, find out what you need to do in order to graduate. Read More Convocation It’s time to celebrate your accomplishment as you join—or rejoin—the ranks of the Texas Exes. Participate in Commencement and Convocation. Read More Career Resources The university offers career resources that may assist you if you plan to enter the workforce after earning your graduate degree. Read More Official Verification of Degrees The Office of the Registrar is responsible for official verification of degrees awarded. The registrar mails diplomas about six weeks after graduation. The diploma will bear your name, graduation date and degree earned, along with the university’s seal and signatures. Make sure your address is up to date in UT Direct. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022