Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Academic Progress Office of Academic and Student Affairs Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Finalists for 3MT 2019 with Associate Dean Jan Allen. From left: Teddy Yesudasan (1st), Robert Swanda, Jeffrey Pea (honorable mention), Maria Sapar, Pamela Meyerhofer (People’s Choice), Ashwariya Lahariya, Michelle Duong (honorable mention), Shao-Pei Chou (2nd place), Cassandra Benson, and Katherine Adler. Credit: Phil Wilde Do you want to learn how to better present and promote your research? Are you interested in competing in the Spring Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition, which challenges participants to present their 80,000 word thesis or dissertation in just three minutes? The Graduate School is offering a series of workshops dedicated to research presentation and communication. Join us to improve your skills in making effective presentations, regardless of whether you intend to participate in the 3MT competition. To receive more information about the 3MT competition, email grad3mt@cornell.edu or fill out the interest form. Workshop Sessions How to Turn Your Research Into an Elevator Pitch (And What's an Elevator Pitch?) Thursday, July 30, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. This workshop provided tips and discussed how to succinctly sum up research for multiple audiences. Participants had chance to practice their pitch in small groups and capture phrasing for different audiences. Resources from the presentation: Tips for a memorable 5 minute research pitch (video) Finding Your Research Voice (book, open access through Cornell Library) Information Sessions on 3MT 2022 Competition Information Sessions: Tuesday, February 1, 2022 at 4:00 p.m. and Wednesday, February 2, 2022 at 12:00 p.m. 2021 Competition Information Sessions: Tuesday, September 15, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. and Thursday, September 24, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. These sessions provided information on the Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition. Tell Your Story! Developing Your Presentation's Design and Message Thursday, October 1, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. Serge Petchenyi and Kim Benowski from the Center for Teaching Innovation spoke about designing format and developing content for effective presentations, especially for online presentations this year. They provided tips for virtual job talks, conference presentations, and competitions such as the Three Minute Thesis (3MT) and other graduate student research competitions. The primary audience for this event was graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. Resources from the presentation: Designing Effective Presentations: Home. (n.d.). Retrieved October 01, 2020. Duarte, N., McCandless, D., Anderson, C., Treasure, J., & Sinek, S. (n.d.). 5 TED Talks full of tips on how to make a great presentation. Retrieved October 01, 2020. Norris, J. E. (2016.) NorrisPodcast producer and OnTheGo. 4 types of noise that disrupt communication (the non-technical problem all podcasters face). Karaali, G. (2014, August 4). Math Talk: Preparing Your Conference Presentation. Retrieved October 01, 2020. Ross, W. T. (2008, March 26). How to give a good 20 minute math talk – William T. Ross. Retrieved October 01, 2020. Making Online Presentations Accessible Thursday, October 15, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. This workshop provided tips for making online presentations accessible to all audiences. Resources from the presentation: University Policy 5.12: Web Accessibility Standards Cornell Accessibility Information Zoom accessibility features Zoom closed captioning Zoom keyboard accessibility Zoom automatic transcripts Zoom screen reader support WebAIM Captions, Transcripts, and Audio Descriptions WebAIM Semantic Structure: Regions, Headings, and Lists WebAIM Alternative Text WebAIM PowerPoint Accessibility WebAIM Color Contrast Checker Forbes 15 Tips for Online Presentations Presenting Research Effectively at a Distance: Technology and You Thursday, October 22, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. This workshop offered tips for using technology more effectively for presentations, job talks, and other virtual academic and professional opportunities. Participants learned about smart and effective uses of technology for class, job talks, interviews, and conference presentations, as well as preparing a professional digital footprint online, advertising talks, using social media, and engaging the audience prior to and during a talk. Resources from the presentation: Presenting Research Effectively at a Distance: Technology and You (PDF slides) Slide Design and Graphics Thursday, October 29, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. This workshop focused on the important role that well-designed slides and graphics play in effective job talks, teaching, and conference presentations. We demonstrated good ones as well as pitfalls to avoid. We provided tip sheets and other resources to all who pre-registered and attended. Overcoming Stage Fright and Improving Your Presence Thursday, November 12, 2020 at 4:00 p.m. Who doesn’t get at least a little nervous when preparing and presenting for audiences of any size when the stakes are high? (No one!) Thinking about a class presentation? A job interview? A presentation at a colloquium or conference? Join us to learn ways to manage nervousness and anxiety about presenting and to develop and demonstrate confidence with your audience. We provided tip sheets and other resources to all who pre-registered and attend. Resources from the presentation: Overcoming Stage Fright and Improving Your Presence (PDF handout) 3MT 2020-2021 Compete with other Cornell graduate students and get the opportunity to compete in the Ivy competition, the Northeastern (U.S. and Canada) competition, and to showcase your research at the Council of Graduate Schools annual meeting. Register if you want to participate in Cornell’s 3MT competition in Spring 2021. Preliminary round competitions are scheduled for February 22-26, 2021 and the final round competition is March 10, 2021. We will send you more information about the preliminary round presentations if you completed the interest form. 3MT is an annual competition sponsored locally by the Graduate School, but with competitions across the globe. All research master’s and doctoral students who have some completed research to share are eligible. This year, all submissions will be in video format. Read more about past 3MT competitions and view videos. Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022