Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » PD Courses Set Navigation title in component PD Courses Preparing Future Faculty Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops Individual Development Plans UC Development Resources Professional Development Courses The Academic Job Search PD 8042: The Academic Job Search provides a broad and diverse view of the academic job market, as well as practical insight into assessing, applying and interviewing for academic jobs. This two-credit course is part of the two-course sequence required for students completing the Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) certificate, but it is open to all grads and post-docs. Available spring semester only. Career Professionalism for Graduate Students Looking for professional development support? Want to explore career options and learn how to translate your academic skills and knowledge to the professional world? The Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education is offering the two-week Maymester course Career Professionalism for Graduate Students. This one credit hour course is intended to support graduate students in identifying and communicating transferable skills for post-graduate career success. Course content will assist doctoral students in understanding the job search process, utilizing career resources, and exploring professional possibilities. This course was developed out of a National Endowment for the Humanities planning grant intended to explore strategies to provide quality professional development for doctoral students who may want to pursue careers in or outside of the academy. At the end of this course you will be able to: Communicate the value of your doctoral degree in the professional world. Implement strategies to increase self-awareness and enhance personal and professional relationships through your professional development action plan. Identify the key components of a full-time job search in and outside of the academy. Demonstrate the skills required to navigate a full-time job search by utilizing professional development and job search resources. Offered summer semester during the Maymester term. This course is being offered remote/aynchronous for Summer 2020 due to COVID-19. Interdisciplinary Dissertation Workshop ENGL 9010: This class is an intensive pass/fail workshop for doctoral students in any discipline. It revolves around three basic ideas: writers benefit from an environment in which writing is prioritized; peer accountability sustains motivation and progress; and a structured schedule and set of flexible writing strategies can together contribute to successful writing sessions. Participants spend the majority of their time writing in a shared space. The group breaks periodically for discussions on topics of common interest, such as motivation, goal setting, time management and successful writing habits and rituals, as well as brief movement exercises and writing activities drawn from the required text. Assessment is based on consistent participation and a written reflection describing progress made during the workshop, strategies learned that will affect subsequent writing activities and projected writing goals for the next three months. This one-credit course is extremely beneficial to students in all stages of thesis or dissertation writing. For the Maymester term only, the Graduate School will cover the tuition cost for graduate students taking this course for the first time. Available summer (Maymester term) and fall semester (first half term) only. This course is being offered online for Summer 2020 due to COVID-19. Teaching Effectiveness PD 8041: Teaching Effectiveness covers the theory and practice of effective, learning-focused teaching at the college level, including how to establish student learning outcomes, develop a syllabus, use diverse approaches to teaching and assessing student learning. All participants will develop an electronic teaching portfolio. This three-credit course is part of the two-course sequence required for students completing the Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) certificate, but it is open to all grad students and post-docs. Available fall semester only. Teaching at the Postsecondary Level PD 7030: This 3-credit, semester-long course prepares masters and doctoral students for teaching assignments at the postsecondary level. The course focuses on foundational concepts and best practices. Participants will discuss issues common to postsecondary teaching across disciplines, refine their individual teaching philosophies, and leave with a practical toolkit of teaching techniques and strategies to implement in their next teaching assignment. Students with prior teaching experience are welcome, but no experience is necessary. Course Topics Include: · Equity, Inclusion, and Anti-Racist Teaching Strategies · Educational Technology · Student Motivation · Metacognitive Strategies · Assessment · Documenting Effective Teaching The course is taught in a hybrid format and includes face-to-face class meetings on Tuesdays from 12:30 pm-1:50 pm EST combined with an asynchronous online component. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top