Skip to content facebooktwitteryoutube USU home A-Z index MyUSU Directory Home About Values Staff Directory Prospective Students Apply for Admission Admissions Policies Discover USU Find Your Degree Graduate Catalog Tuition & Financial Aid Current Students Find Your GPC Academic Forms Graduate Catalog Requirements by Degree Plan Type Financial Aid & Funding Trainings and Events Thesis/Dissertation Requirements University Resources Mental Health Resources Final Defense Degree Completion Graduate School Awards Live More Blog Graduate Program Coordinators Academic Forms FERPA Graduate Catalog GPC Meeting Minutes GPC Trainings Graduate Trainings and Events Recruitment Resources Faculty Academic Forms Policies for Mentoring FERPA Graduate Council Recruitment Resources Graduate School Awards Search for: Tuition & Financial AidGradschool Admin2022-03-29T18:47:37+00:00 Tuition & Financial Aid Utah State University is one of the most affordable schools in the nation and provides many options to help you invest in your education. Approximately 75% of all graduate students receive financial assistance each year. Tuition and fees may vary by college and course enrollment so be sure to use the Tuition and Fees Estimator to understand your investment. In addition to university-wide scholarships and fellowships, your department or college may have unique financial aid opportunities. If you’re a grad student who is required to take language credits to complete your degree, you can apply for Supplemental Language Tuition. As a Utah State employee or relative of an employee, you may be eligible for reduced tuition. USU is committed to a learning and working environment free from discrimination. See USU’s notice of non-discrimination. Tuition and Fees Calculator Pay Tuition Assistantships Non-Resident Tuition Waivers For non-residents who meet the waiver’s qualifications Funding type: Waiver Annual amount: Non-resident portion of tuition Required match: No Learn More Alumni Legacy Scholarship For non-resident students with USU ties Funding type: Scholarship No. available: Unlimited Annual amount: Non-resident portion of tuition Duration: First two semesters Application from: Student Required match: No Learn More and Apply Dissertation Fellowship (Temporarily suspended until further notice) For PhD students completing a dissertation Funding type: Fellowship No. available: 10 Annual amount: Full tuition + $5K Duration: 1 year Application from: Student Required match: Yes Learn More External Scholarships Find information on private, community and corporate scholarships These sites are not associated with Utah State University. Learn More About Private Scholarships House Bill 144 Waiver For non-resident students who graduated from a Utah high school (attended at-least 3 years) Funding type: Waiver No. available: Unlimited Annual amount: Non-resident portion of tuition Application from: Student Required match: No Learn More and Apply Travel Funding For graduate students traveling to professional meetings Funding type: Grant No. available: 1 per year per student as funding allows Annual amount: $200-400 Duration: $50K funding Application from: Student Required match: Yes, 1:1 Learn More and Apply Graduate Research & Creative Opportunities Grant For all graduate students interested in pursuing their own research interest Funding type: Scholarship No. available: 12 Annual amount: Up to $1,000 Duration: 1 year Application from: Office of Research Required match: No Learn More Seely-Hinckley Scholarship For graduate students with financial need Funding type: Scholarship No. available: 8 Annual amount: Fixed amount (may vary by year) Duration: 1 year Application from: College Required match: No Learn More × House Bill 144 Waiver Utah Immigrant Non-Resident Waiver (HB144) This waiver removes the non-resident portion of tuition allowing you to pay only in state tuition and fees. To qualify for this waiver you must meet the following criteria: File an application to legalize immigration status or will file an application as soon as eligible to do so Attend a Utah high school for at least 3 years Graduate from a Utah high school This is only a summary of the application. Please direct any questions to the School of Graduate Studies Apply Close × Martin Luther King Fellowship Deadline: April 2 Funding type: Fellowship No. available: 2 Annual amount: Full tuition + $7K Duration: 1 year Application from: Student Required match: No Award: Two fellowships of $7,000 for the academic year and a tuition award for either in-state or nonresident students for up to 9 credits. Criteria: A 3.0 cumulative GPA and GRE scores at the 40th percentile or higher; students must be accepted to a graduate program as a matriculated student, with matching departmental financial support (minimum $1,000); students must not have exceeded 70-credits of tuition awards to be eligible for the tuition award that accompanies this fellowship.Intended for deserving African American students; priority given to new students. Student Application Department Recommendation Close × Alumni Legacy Non-resident Scholarship Award: The Alumni Legacy Nonresident Scholarship waives the nonresident portion of tuition for the first two semesters as long as the student remains in good standing. Students are expected to gain Utah residency after their first year in a graduate program. Criteria: A student must be admitted into a graduate program, have a least 1 parent or grandparent (biological, step, or legal guardian) who earned an associate’s degree or higher from Utah State University, and enroll as a first-time graduate student at USU. Time spent in Utah on the scholarship can be counted toward establishing Utah residency for tuition purposes. Application: After being accepted into a graduate program at USU, complete the Alumni Legacy Verification Form and submit to the School of Graduate Studies. Any questions you have regarding the Alumni Legacy Non-resident Scholarship may be directed to the School of Graduate Studies or by calling 435-797-1189. Apply Close × Seely-Hinckley Scholarship Deadline: Please contact your college for more information. Note: Please reach out to your respective College on how to apply. Award: Eight scholarships which award a fixed amount of in-state tuition (amount may vary depending on availability of funds), and cover student fees for 2 semesters for costs associated with an approved Program of Study. If the recipient is a nonresident student, the School of Graduate Studies will also provide a nonresident tuition award for up to $4,000. Intended for outstanding graduate students who face serious financial difficulties. Each college nominates one student. Required Nomination Information: Please reach out to your respective College for nomination qualifications. Close × Assistantship X-STEM Assistantships were created to support graduate students in three colleges (Arts, Business, Humanities and Social Sciences) who include a meaningful STEM component in their graduate program. Students on these assistantships are required to include a STEM faculty member on their supervisory committee, and provide a report to the Graduate School that describes how the STEM component enhanced their graduate degree program. Applications for these assistantships must be submitted by the college, not by students. A 1:1 match from the college or department is required. Application Close × Tuition Waivers for Non-Residents For some graduate students the cost of tuition is covered or reduced by the student’s department or college, the Office of Graduate Studies, or by the university. For students who are supported as assistants on research grants, the cost of resident tuition is frequently paid by the grant. Tuition support may be provided in the form of a waiver or an award. Three types of Non-Resident Tuition Waivers are described below. 1. Research Non-Resident Tuition Waiver USU will waive the non-resident portion of tuition, for one year, for any graduate student who is in a PhD program or a MS Plan A program, and who is supported by a 0.5 FTE assistantship for the entire semester (from the first day of class through the last day of finals). This is a true waiver of non-resident tuition, and there is no limit on the number of waivers that may be awarded. Eligibility for this waiver is verified using information supplied by the department to the School of Graduate Studies. There is an expectation that after one year students will gain residency. Students who cannot gain residency (e.g. international students) may receive the waiver beyond one year if they continue to meet eligibility. 2. Non-Resident Tuition Waiver for Excellence USU will waive the non-resident portion of tuition for the first year of any incoming graduate student who has an admission GPA above their college average and meets the criteria of excellence as defined by their college and/or department. This waiver is available to graduate students in any degree program but may only be applied for the first year a student is in a graduate degree program. The School of Graduate Studies will verify eligibility for this waiver by using information supplied by the department and by looking at the average admission GPA that is calculated annually for each college. 3. Western Regional Graduate Program This program allows residents of Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands to pay resident tuition for approved programs. The Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education provides a list of participating USU graduate programs. This waiver may be applied every semester that a student is enrolled in an eligible program, and students can apply for this waiver by completing a WRGP application for non-resident tuition. If you have questions about your eligibility for tuition awards or waivers, please contact your department or program. Close × Travel Funding Presentation skills are critical to the success of graduate students, and conference presentations represent the best opportunity for developing those skills. Professional presentations build professional skills–the nuts and bolts of communicating results to professional audiences–and provide outstanding career-building opportunities. The School of Graduate Studies Student Travel Award promotes student involvement in their disciplines by partially funding travel costs associated with professional presentations at regional, national, and international conferences. Each year, the School of Graduate Studies allocates $50,000 to the program (funds are allocated to each month of the year; conferences throughout the year are funded). Allocation decisions are made on a first-come/first-served basis. Funding The maximum amount of funding from SGS, per student, is as follows (note that funds must be matched dollar-for-dollar from a department or other university source, conference travel-grants can be used for the match): International Conference: $400 from SGS National Conference: $300 from SGS Regional Conference (i.e. conferences held in UT, ID, WY, CO, NM, AZ, NV): $200 from SGS Eligible Costs SGS Travel Awards may cover costs in any of the following categories: Conference registration Airfare (actual costs as supported by detailed receipts) Hotel (actual costs as supported by detailed receipts; no incidentals) Mileage Per Diem International Travel Insurance Eligibility All full-time graduate students are eligible to apply for an SGS Graduate Student Travel Award.Students may apply to travel multiple times per fiscal year but will be funded only once during that year.In total, students are eligible to receive an SGS Travel Award twice during a master’s program and three times during a doctoral program. Only one student per presentation/poster will be funded*, though multiple students may be funded to attend the same meeting/conference. *Departments may choose to split one travel award between co-presenters at any time. Requirements Matching Funds Travel awards must be matched dollar-for-dollar from a department or other university source. Proof of Acceptance to Present Students must be listed in the conference program and must provide proof of acceptance at the time of application. Typically, students are notified by email that they have been accepted to present or perform and such an email would qualify as proof of acceptance. Similarly, being listed in a conference program would be acceptable as proof of acceptance to present. International Travel Students traveling internationally must purchase the University’s SOS insurance. Application Process To apply, students are required to complete a web-based form (Click “Apply Now”). The form requires the following information: Student information: Student Name, A#, Department Conference information: The conference title, location, dates, and conference webpage Presentation information: All authors The title of the presentation Presentation format (poster / oral presentation / performance) Matching Funds: Source of matching funds Proof of conference acceptance: Students must be listed in the conference program and must provide proof of acceptance at the time of application. Typically, students are notified by email that they have been accepted to present or perform and such an email would qualify as proof of acceptance. Similarly, being listed in a conference program would be acceptable as proof of acceptance to present. This can be uploaded as a PDF, or, submitted as a link to the conference program.Upon submission, students will receive an automated email confirmation that their application has been received. Within five working days, students will be notified of their award status (approved, denied or incomplete). Approved Applications: Travel Authorization For approved travel awards, the student’s home department will be contacted and the source of the matching funds confirmed. Once that is in place, Travel Authorization (TA) forms are to be completed by students’ home department. Deadlines Given that allocation decisions are made on a first-come / first-serve basis, early application is strongly encouraged.Applications must be submitted at least two weeks prior to conference travel.Proposals may be submitted any time once formal proof of acceptance has been received. Contact Information For more information please contact Erika Beckstrand (435) 797-3741 erika.beckstrand@usu.edu or Janis Boettinger (435) 797-3981 janis.boettinger@usu.edu Apply Now Close × Presidential Doctoral Research Fellowships Deadline: April 16 Award: Ten fellowships of a minimum of $20,000/year for a maximum duration of 4 years, plus a tuition award for either in-state or nonresident students for up to 9 credits for 4 years. Criteria: A 3.5 or above cumulative GPA and GRE scores at the 70th percentile or higher; students must be accepted to a graduate program as a matriculated doctoral student, with matching departmental financial support (amount will vary); students must be nominated by their academic college. Students receiving the Presidential Doctoral Research Fellowship are required to be registered as a full time student. Full time matriculated graduate students must be one of the following: Registered for 9 or more credits; or Registered for 6 or more credits if employed as a graduate assistant for 15 hours per week or more; or Registered for 3 graduate credits with all required credits completed (the student’s Program of Study must have been submitted to the School of Graduate Studies); or Registered for at least 3 gradaute credits during the semester of the final thesis/dissertation defense or, in a non-thesis degree program, the last semester of coursework required on the student’s Program of Study. For additional information about the Presidential Doctoral Research Fellowships, please contact Alexa Sand (alexa.sand@usu.edu) or view the PDRF Handbook. GO TO PDRF WEBSITE Close × School of Graduate Studies Dissertation Fellowships Deadline: April 2 Award: Ten non-renewable fellowships of $5,000 for the academic year with a tuition award for in-state and nonresident students for up to 6 credits. Criteria: Submission of curriculum vitae as well as a letter from the department head or the department’s director of graduate studies that endorses the student’s application and that describes the department’s commitment to relieve the student of some portion of the student’s responsibilities as a graduate assistant (the letter should be addressed to the Dissertation Fellowship Selection Committee); students who have exceeded 70-credits of tuition awards will not be eligible for the tuition award that accompanies this fellowship. Intended to provide outstanding doctoral students with additional time to draft and revise dissertations; it should be used to relieve students from some part of their teaching or research obligations in order to pursue more actively the actual writing of the dissertation. Close × Graduate Research & Creative Opportunity Grants Deadline: June 15 Award: 12 scholarships of up to $1,000 in research funding Criteria: In a grant proposal format, students must submit a proposal narrative, timeline, budget and letter of support from their faculty mentor to qualify for funding. Proposals are reviewed by USU professors. Once awarded, students have one-year to complete their research and submit a report on the research conducted. Learn more and apply Close Questions? Contact your graduate program coordinator. Contact Contact Your Graduate Program Coordinator Staff Directory School of Graduate Studies Utah State University 0900 Old Main Hill Logan UT 84322-0900 Sign up for our mailing list … Request Information Location: Old Main Room 164 Phone: 435-797-1189 Toll Free: 866-USU-GRAD (878-4723) Email: graduateschool@usu.edu Quick Links Admission Degree Completion Live More Blog Trainings and Events Office of Research Connect USU is committed to a learning and working environment free from discrimination. For USU’s non-discrimination notice, see equity.usu.edu/non-discrimination. Copyright 2022 Utah State University Graduate Studies | All Rights Reserved