Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Contact Us Contact Us Learn the business hours, phone number and address for the Office of Financial Aid. The Office of Financial Aid strives to provide comprehensive support and quality service at the time you need it. To speak with an individual financial aid counselor, please select a 30-minute appointment slot from our Counselor Calendar. Please include the names of participants for the phone call, student name, phone number, as well as a Banner ID if possible. Should you need to cancel an appointment, please email us at gs_financial_aid@brown.edu. General Office Hours Late August - May: Monday - Friday: 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. June - Late August: Monday - Friday: 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Address Page-Robinson Hall Second Floor Box 1827, 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2721 Fax 401-863-7575 Email Us Graduate Email Related Contact Information Bursar’s Office If you have questions pertaining to billing, your student account, or how to get a refund from any credit balance that exists on your account. Loan Office Visit the Loan Office website if you have questions pertaining to Federal Loan Requirements, Federal Master Promissory Notes, Entrance/Exit Counseling, or Repayment Methods. Brown Funding Email the Graduate School if you have any questions pertaining to graduate Brown scholarships, stipends, or additional resources. For specific program funding from Brown, please contact your Director of Graduate Study (DGS) in your Department/Program. Email the Graduate School or call 401-863-2600 if you are unsure of your program contact. Brown University Payroll Office Email the Brown University Payroll Office if you have questions about your stipend/payroll check, or call (401) 863-2361. Emergency Funding & UFunds Emergency funding in the form of grants, loans, and vouchers can be applied for through UFunds. All interested students would need to apply online and may need to set up an appointment with a Graduate School Dean for their specific circumstances. Where to Find Us Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Contact Us Open details for Contact Us Bookmark this Page