Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » New Students » Get to Know Cincinnati Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Get to Know Cincinnati Cincinnati is a city with a lot to offer, but it can be hard to find your way around town for the first few months. This guide is meant to make getting to know the city a little easier. There's something here for everyone, including returning students. Grocery Stores & Markets Cincinnati Favorites Restaurants in Clifton Restaurants in Ludlow/Gaslight District Restaurants in Northside Restaurants in Downtown/Over-the-Rhine Cafés Parks Museums Movie Theaters The Arts Other Entertainment Used Bookstores Grocery Stores & Markets Clifton Natural Foods North of campus on Ludlow Avenue, Clifton Natural Foods offers healthy and organic selections with a regional focus. Although the store is a bit on the pricey side, it's very convenient. Findlay Market Ohio's oldest continuously operated public market and one of Cincinnati's most cherished institutions, Findlay Market hosts over two dozen indoor merchants open year round, a thriving farmers market on Saturdays and Sundays from April to November, and dozens of outdoor vendors, street performers and special events. Kroger The nearest Kroger supermarket is located at Corry and Vine, directly across the street from the West Campus and within easy walking distance of the Medical Campus. In addition to offering the typical grocery selection, this store houses a natural foods section, a walk-in The Little Clinic, and a robust selection of hot, ready-to-eat entrees. Trader Joe's A less expensive alternative to Whole Foods, Trader Joe's is also slightly farther away, approximately 15 minutes by car in Kenwood (down the street from the shopping mall, Kenwood Town Centre. Whole Foods The national organic and health food retailer has a location in Rookwood Commons, a shopping center approximately 10 minutes from campus by car. Cincinnati Favorites Busken Bakery Make sure to stop by one of their locations throughout Cincinnati for one of their delicious smiley face cookies and pick up some donuts as well! Eli's BBQ Eli’s BBQ is another great barbeque option in the area you will want to try. With locations in both Riverside and Findlay Market, you will want to make sure to add eating here to your to do list. Gold Star Chili Cincinnati loves their chili and Gold Star is another way to indulge in the local cuisine. Not a huge chili fan? No problem! Gold Star has an array of menu choices, including burgers, chicken sandwiches, salads and even vegetarian options. Graeter's Internationally known ice cream parlor serving up over 25+ flavors. Make sure to try one of their signature chip flavors, which feature their notoriously huge chunks of chocolate chips. LaRosa's This Cincinnati favorite is known for serving up classic Italian recipes including pasta, pizza, calzones and more. With most locations offering dine-in, carry-out and delivery options, you will want to make sure to take part in this Cincinnati staple! Montgomery Inn Just as much as Cincinnati loves chili, we love our barbeque too! Montgomery Inn touts having “The Best Ribs on the Planet” which you can indulge in at one of their two locations - their Riverside location offers a beautiful view of the Ohio River or in try their location in Montgomery where it all began. Servatii Pastry Shop & Deli This is another Cincinnati bakery you will wants to make a stop at! Servatii’s offers a wide assortment of items ranging from muffins, croissants, donuts and cakes to their authentic Bavarian soft pretzels that are sure to become a favorite. Skyline Chili Serving the Cincinnati area since 1949, this is a local favorite you will not want to miss out on. First time visitor? Make sure to try a three-way or chili cheese coney (or both) showcasing the restaurant’s famous Greek-style chili. Vegetarian? No problem – ask for their black bean and rice option instead. Restaurants in Clifton Adriatico's Adriatico’s offers delicious New York Style pizza along with other campus favorites like their parmesan breadsticks, zonis and wings. Got a large group? Try their infamous Bearcat Pizza, but be forewarned, this pizza is HUGE! Chicago Gyros and Dogs Located on West McMillan, Chicago Gyros and Dogs offers a wide selection of specialty gyros, hot dogs, burgers and more for a great price. Krishna This nearby Indian takeout joint offers affordable lunch specials and is open late to fuel intense study sessions. Thai Express Located on West McMillan, this family-operated Thai restaurant is a real treat. Be warned: it's not joking around about the spiciness levels. Restaurants in Ludlow/Gaslight District Ambar Located in Clifton's historic Gaslight District, Ambar is one of three Indian restaurants within a one-block radius. Try them all. Habanero Locally owned and operated in Clifton since 1999, Habanero offers build your own burritos, tacos, quesadillas and the most delicious housemade tortilla chips. You will want to make your way down to Ludlow to experience this affordable and delicious restaurant. Proud Rooster Whether you’re in the mood for brunch, delicious fried chicken or both this no frills diner has got you covered! Make sure to make a stop at the ATM before dining here, as they only accept cash. The Whole Bowl Looking for a filling and healthy option for carnivores and herbivores? Try The Whole Bowl! With a simple menu filled with wholesome ingredients, you’re sure to leave feeling you’ve made a deliciously healthy choice. Restaurants in Northside The Comet The Comet is known throughout the Cincinnati area for their burritos and live music. They also offer a Sunday brunch with a weekly rotating menu. Melt Revival Melt offers an eclectic and fresh menu, including certified humane clean meat options and plenty of vegetarian/vegan options to make your whole group happy. Restaurants in Downtown/Over-the-Rhine Alabama Fish Bar This restaurant is carryout only, doesn't take credit cards and exclusively serves fish and chips—but their fried fish is quite possibly the best in the Tristate. Arnold's Bar and Grill Opened in 1861, Arnold’s is a Cincinnati landmark and the oldest bar in the city. Burrito Joe's Located in Downtown Cincinnati, Burrito Joe’s provides a “Handmade, Fast and Fresh” alternative to fast food. After over 20 years in business, they have acquired a loyal following known as “Burrito Addicts” – try it today and see if you’ll be a part of the fan base! Goodfellas Pizzeria This location in Over-the-Rhine offers New York Style pizza by the slice if you’re in a rush or take a seat and get one of their specialty pies. Maize OTR This Venezuelan-style eatery located on Race Street offers delicious Latin American cuisine in trendy OTR that people can’t help but rave about. Cafés Coffee Emporium This local chain has several locations in Cincinnnati, but its Over-the-Rhine store has the best ambience of them all, as well as incredible coffee. Highland Coffee House This nearby hangout is only open in the evening (5 PM to 2 AM), which makes it perfect for studying among the largest plants and biggest fish of any café in Cincinnati. Iris Book Cafe Iris is located on Main Street in Over-the-Rhine. You can buy and enjoy a used book here along with your cappuccino in the café's fantastically cozy atmosphere. Roh's Street Cafe In our opinion, Rohs sells the best coffee within walking distance of campus. Sidewinder Coffee Sidewinder is a great place to get coffee in Northside. The owners (and their pet rabbits Patrick and Eppie) often mingle with guests in the shop's quaint courtyard when the weather’s warm enough. Sitwell's Coffee House Situated in the Gaslight District, this cafe offers an extensive coffee menu and vegetarian/vegan dishes along with entertainment including live music and poetry readings. Parks Burnet Woods Enjoy a quick break from school life in this forested park, located right across the street from campus. Eden Park As well as offering stunning views of the city, Eden Park is home to the Cincinnati Art Museum and many other attractions. Krohn Conservatory This Art Deco conservatory, nestled in Eden Park, presents gorgeous flora from around the world, as well as one of Cincinnati's best Christmas displays. Mt. Airy Forest Nearly 1,500 acres of woods offer countless opportunities for hiking and other outdoor recreation at just a 15-minute drive from campus. Washington Park Washington Park is located in the center of OTR and offers many events and activities, including free workout classes and movie nights. Museums American Legacy Tours Learn about the history of Greater Cincinnati as you walk around the city with experienced guides. American Sign Museum You simply won't find another museum like this one, which is dedicated to the sign industry and its indelible impact on the American landscape. Cincinnati Art Museum Admission is always free at Cincinnati's premier exhibitor of art, located in Eden Park. Cincinnati Museum Center The center at Union Terminal houses three separate museums—the Cincinnati History Museum, Duke Energy Children's Museum and Museum of Natural History & Science—and typically hosts a traveling exhibit as well, but the Art Deco rotunda itself is work the trip. Contemporary Arts Center This museum offers free admission at this downtown showcase of modern art. Fire Museum of Greater Cincinnati This small but fascinating museum honors firefighting and the significant historical contributions Cincinnati has made to firefighting technology. Movie Theaters AMC Newport on the Levee 20 This multiplex on the Kentucky side of the river is the area's premier destination for big-budget popcorn flicks. Cinemark Oakley Station Located 6.5 miles north of UC’s campus via 71, this location provides another great option to catch the latest movie release. Kroger, Target and plenty of restaurant options surround the cinema as well. Esquire Theatre One of the area's few remaining independent theaters, the Esquire in Clifton's Gaslight district is the place to go for movies that aren’t Hollywood blockbusters. Mainstreet Cinema This on-campus movie theater offers $2 movie showings to anyone with a UC ID. Members of the general public pay only $4. The Arts ArtsWave Pass Enjoy special discounts and perks for more than 100 participating art experiences in the area, including buy one get one free ticket offers and exclusive deals. Clifton Cultural Arts Center One mile north of campus on Clifton Avenue, the CCAC offers classes from African Drumming to Zumba, thought-provoking exhibits and inspiring special events. College-Conservatory of Music UC’s own CCM consistently offers some of the best music, theater, dance, and opera in Cincinnati. Tickets for students are often discounted or free. Other Entertainment Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden The second-oldest zoo in the United States is located only a stone's throw from campus. With one of the largest collections in the country, including over 500 animal and 3,000 plant species, the Cincinnati Zoo continues to set standards for conservation, education and preservation. FC Cincinnati This Major League Soccer (MLS) club plays their home games at UC's Nippert Stadium from February to September. Used Bookstores Duttenhofer's Books Duttenhofer’s may be small in size, but you can easily lose a couple hours exploring its impressive selection. And it’s very convenient, located just south of campus on West McMillan. Half-Priced Books The discount bookseller chain runs a couple of locations in and around Cincinnati, and the selection at each is slightly different. The location on Montgomery Road tends to be the store of choice for UC students with used books from English classes. The Ohio Book Store This store on Main Street downtown is enormous, and you never know what you'll find on each of its five full floors. You'll need at least an afternoon to even skim the store's eclectic offerings. Did we miss something? Contact megan.tischner@uc.edu if you'd like to make a suggestion for our guide. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top