Skip to content Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. Toggle navigation Graduate Studies About Tech Why Choose Tech Contact Us Diversity & Accessibility Visit Tech Academics & Research Degree Programs Colleges & Schools Professional Education Theses and Dissertations Research Resources Cost & Funding Cost & Fees Paying for Grad School Admissions Preparing Your Application Apply BS/MS Program Form International Applicants 62 or Older Program Student Information New Students Student Life International Students Professional Development Graduate Experience Survey Commencement News & Events Grad Buzz e-Newsletter News Events FAQ Faculty & Staff Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Admissions International Applicants One of the things that we're most proud of at Georgia Tech is our global community. Not only are a number of our faculty members from countries around the world, over 60 percent of our graduate student population is international, hailing from more than 100 countries around the world. Ranked as one of the Most Innovative Schools, you can choose from more than 300 programs in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Math. As an international graduate student, you have access to research and internship opportunities in one of the largest innovation ecosystems in the US. At Georgia Tech, we are focused on the whole person education of our students and will make sure you develop valuable 21st century skills that will help you succeed during your time as a student and beyond. At Georgia Tech, we consider you an international student if: you are living in the United States on a nonimmigrant visa, you are living outside of the United States and will require an F-1 or J-1 visa to study in the United States, or you are going through the process of becoming a United States permanent resident You are eligible to apply to one of our graduate programs if you have earned at least a bachelor's degree, or its US equivalent, prior to the start of your first semester of study. Your degree must be issued by an institution authorized to award degrees by the appropriate government agency such as a Ministry of Education or the University Grants commission. International Application Process Confirm the application and admission requirements for your program Your first step should be to connect with your graduate program of interest to check their admission requirements and deadlines before you start the graduate application process. Submit the online application The online application can take anywhere from 30 minutes to one hour to complete. You do not have to complete this application in one sitting. If necessary, you can save your work and log back in later to complete it. Submit your application materials You are required to submit several application materials before the graduate program can review your application for admission. Examples of such materials are proof of English language proficiency, letters of recommendation, transcript, test scores, etc. It is your responsibility to check that all the required documents have been received by the program’s application deadline. You can check the status of your application and required materials by logging in to your Application Status Portal after you have submitted your application. You will find more information about required materials by visiting Application Documents. Receive decision from your graduate program After all required application materials have been received, your program’s graduate admission committee will review your application. The application review timeline varies for each program, so make sure to directly check with your graduate program regarding their decision release date(s). Once an admission decision is made, you will receive an email indicating that an update has been made to your Application Status Portal. Submit additional information for the application verification process If the graduate admission committee decides to admit you to their program, then the Office of Graduate Studies (OGS) will carry out a verification/evaluation process to finalize your admission. Additional Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) checks may be required. In some cases, OGS may ask you to submit additional documents. You will receive an email from grad.ask@gatech.edu with instructions and details for completing this step. Receive the Application Verification Complete email After all the required documents are received and verified, you will receive an Application Verification Complete email with information about next steps and continuing the enrollment process as a newly admitted graduate student at Georgia Tech. Be sure to check your Application Status Portal and email on a regular basis for updates and important information from the Office of Graduate Studies. International Academic Credentials/Documents You must submit academic credentials/documents (transcripts, marksheet, or diploma supplement) in the native language and provide an English translation by an official translation agency, unless your institution issues academic credentials/documents in English. If you completed your education outside of the United States, we highly recommend using one of the three Georgia Tech approved credential evaluation services: IEE, Educational Perspectives, or SpanTran Pathways. If you do not choose to use one of our approved credential evaluation services, then your credentials/documents will be evaluated in-house by the Office of Graduate Studies. Please be aware that the in-house evaluation process does take longer than using one of our approved evaluation services. Georgia Tech requires that international applicants hold the equivalent of a U.S. four-year baccalaureate degree earned from an institution authorized to award degrees by the appropriate government agency such as a Ministry of Education or the University Grants commission. For more information, visit our Grad Admission Catalog. For more information on how to submit your academic credentials/documents, go to Application Materials. Proof of English Proficiency Georgia Tech requires that all applicants demonstrate proof of English language proficiency at the time of application. Failure to meet our requirement will result in an automatic denial of your application. For details on how to satisfy this requirement, please visit English Proficiency Requirements. Additional Resources Regardless of where you decide to attend graduate school, here are a few additional resources that you might find helpful: Georgia Tech Language Institute. If you need to improve your English language skills to meet the proficiency requirements for admission to a GT graduate program or you would like to be better prepared to meet the communication demands of being a graduate student, the Georgia Tech Language Institute can help. The Language Institute offers an intensive English program, short courses, professional communications courses, online courses, and graduate student English proficiency assessments year-round. You can see a full list of their programs at www.esl.gatech.edu. EducationUSA. This is a U.S. Department of State-supported network of hundreds of advising centers around the world. Each year, EducationUSA advisors provide millions of international students with accurate, comprehensive, and current information about how to apply to U.S. colleges and universities. EducationUSA staff also work with U.S. higher education professionals to promote international student recruitment. Study in the States. This website is an information hub for the international student community by bringing together the various federal agencies that play a role in implementing U.S. student visa and exchange visitor programs, including the Student and Exchange Visitor Program, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the Department of State’s Bureau of Consular Affairs and Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The site offers the latest information and resources for international students and school officials through blog posts, news articles, interactive guides, and videos. Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Facebook YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login