Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » Preparing Future Faculty » Why PFF? Set Navigation title in component Preparing Future Faculty Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Value of the PFF Program The PFF program taught me how to effectively decode job ads and provided invaluable information regarding the importance of and tips for selecting a college or university that aligned with my career goals. These skills, along with many others, helped me to secure my academic position. LaTrice Montgomery, PhD Studies commissioned by the National PFF Organization have shown the effectiveness of PFF. When alumni were asked whether PFF had helped them better understand and make informed choices about the options available for their academic careers, nearly all agreed that the program had been very important (DeNeef, 2002). In another study (Wested and Abt, 2004), 98 percent of participant respondents said they would recommend PFF to peers interested in academic careers for the following reasons: PFF prepares graduate students for academic careers at diverse types of postsecondary institutions. The program helps graduate students make informed career choices, conduct productive job searches and achieve early career success. It provides professional development that does not negatively extend time-to-degree and encourages degree completion for some participants. Current Students and Graduates of the UC PFF Programs are similarly enthusiastic! The PFF program has been instrumental in both my graduate school experience and academic career. When I interviewed for clinical/research internships as a graduate student, faculty members and administrators at other institutions were extremely impressed by my involvement in the PFF program. In particular, several faculty members and administrators at other institutions were extremely impressed by the electronic teaching and research portfolio I created as part of the PFF program. Five years in as a professor and I am still using an updated version of my e-portfolio to highlight my accomplishments! The PFF program taught me how to effectively decode job ads and provided invaluable information regarding the importance of and tips for selecting a college or university that aligned with my career goals. These skills, along with many others, helped me to secure my academic position. My favorite component of the PFF program at UC was the mentoring experience. My mentor, Dr. Robin Lightner, was amazing and solidified my interest in becoming a professor. She continues to be a valuable colleague and friend. I strongly recommend the PFF program to graduate students who are interested in pursuing an academic career. The PFF program has been invaluable to my career! LaTrice Montgomery, PhD, Assistant Professor, Addiction Sciences Division, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine The Preparing Future Faculty Program has helped prepare me for my future career as a faculty member in many ways. It has prepared me as a teacher, exposing me to techniques, pedagogies, and other passionate teachers. It has prepared me as a researcher, teaching me how to communicate my research effectively and arming me with strategies for balancing the many demands of life in academia. And it has prepared me for the job search and interview process which I am currently navigating. I would highly recommend that anyone interested in an academic career participate in this program! Mark Mitchell, PhD Candidate, Biological Sciences PFF played an integral role in shaping my graduate student career. My mentorship experience provided me a new perspective on teaching while I worked with my mentor at Xavier University. I didn't know the difference between a CV and resume until I took Prof. mcclung's class, and the syllabus I created in Teaching Effectiveness got put to actual use later on when I taught my own organic chemistry class. PFF also introduced me to GATE, in which I became involved and even served as Vice President for a year. Overall, I would not feel as prepared to enter the workforce as I do now without my experiences with PFF. I would recommend it to anyone, even if you're not yet sure about entering the academic world after graduation, as it's an invaluable experience no matter your background or career goals. Kendra Leahy Denlinger, PhD Candidate, Chemistry "I know when I first started as a teacher here at UC, on my evaluations I would often score a two, but with the help of the PFF program, I’ve actually increased that to an average between four and five," says Abigail Richard, a PhD candidate in the Department of Mathematical Sciences. "So, I’d say that’s pretty good, a big improvement. I love PFF for that. PFF has opened my eyes to different ways to engage the students." Furthermore, in Academic Job Search, "we practiced giving elevator speeches, so I think that was really useful and great because a lot of students before that class had never really given an elevator speech before. I know I hadn’t. So it’s great to be able to think about your research and try to explain it someone from outside your field. And that actually ended up being useful for me because I got a Taft fellowship right after that semester, and guess what? The people in Taft wanted me to come in and sit down with them and explain my research to them.” Read more about Abigail Richard's experience with PFF “Pretty much anyone you talk to in my department would say that I’m a raving fan of PFF,” says Daniele Bologna, a doctoral candidate in psychology. He says there’s no substitute for the cross-disciplinary community of support that the program offers for new teachers. “You might share a PFF classroom with a chemistry doctoral student, an English doctoral student and an engineering master’s student. We’re all training to become academics and learning how to stand on our own two feet.” Read more about Daniele Bologna's experience with PFF Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top