Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Linguistics Ph.D. school Graduate School department Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown University's Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences (CLPS) is dedicated to the multidisciplinary study of mind, brain, behavior and language. The department offers three Ph.D. programs: in Cognitive Science, Linguistics and Psychology. Ph.D. students are accepted by the department and formally choose one of the three programs. The department does not accept students interested in obtaining terminal master's degrees. Linguistics focuses on the nature of human language: modeling human linguistic knowledge and its theoretical, behavioral, and biological bases. Brown University's graduate program in Linguistics is designed to prepare students for careers as scientists and teachers who will make contributions in academic or applied settings. Students will gain broad competence in the scientific issues using formal, theoretical, experimental, and/or computational methods relevant to modeling linguistic domains, and are expected to develop expertise in one or more research specializations. We especially encourage directions of study that bridge work in theoretical linguistics with experimental and/or computational methods. Programs of study are highly individualized. Decisions about research and coursework are made in close collaboration with a research advisor and graduate committee chosen by each student. Students may change areas and advisors as their interests develop. Students are also encouraged to collaborate with faculty members who are not their primary advisors. Students accepted into the Linguistics Ph.D. program are guaranteed five years of financial support contingent on satisfactory progress toward the degree. In addition to the Graduate School's doctoral support, the department also typically provides a summer stipend for a fourth summer if the student continues to work on research over that period. Support normally comes in the form of teaching or research assistantships, and students are encouraged to apply for their own fellowships (e.g., NSF) before or after being admitted to the program. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required. Additional Requirements: Statement of Purpose: applicants should describe their background and interests as they relate to the preferred Ph.D. program (e.g., Linguistics) and to the research conducted by specific faculty who might serve as research advisors. To this end, we strongly recommend that applicants read the departmental website before applying, giving particular attention to the faculty research descriptions. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements Ten substantive courses (including at least one course in phonetics, one in phonology, one in syntax, one in semantics, and at least two courses drawn from the following areas: acquisition, computational linguistics, neurolinguistics, and/or psycholinguistics); first–year project (research and/or critical literature review and synthesis) and oral presentation; four semesters of teaching assistantships; major paper and oral defense; dissertation proposal and oral dissertation proposal meeting; dissertation and oral presentation. In addition, PhD candidates in linguistics must demonstrate a reading knowledge of one foreign language (usually French, German, or Russian) or knowledge of a foreign language to a level suitable for conducting linguistic research on that language. Non–native speakers of English may use English for their foreign language requirement. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Rebecca D Burwell rebecca_burwell@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies David Badre david_badre@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Psychology) Kathryn T Spoehr kathryn_spoehr@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Linguistics) Uriel Cohen Priva uriel_cohen_priva@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Cognitive Science) Michael Frank michael_frank@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Location Address 190 Thayer Street Mailing Address Brown University Box 1821 CLPS@brown.edu 401-863-2727 Visit the Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Linguistics Open details for Linguistics Bookmark this Page