Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : After Your Decision After Your Decision Graduate applicants to The University of Texas at Austin may be admitted, admitted with conditions, or denied admission. Admitted Students Prior to enrollment, admitted students must: Submit Official Transcripts Please review the Transcript Submission FAQ. Official transcripts bear the facsimile signature of the registrar and the seal of the issuing institution. Transcripts from U.S. colleges or universities must have been produced within the last calendar year, and transcripts written in a language other than English must be accompanied by a translation. If you earned a degree from an institution, in addition to transcripts, you will need to provide documentation of the award of degree. Transcripts from U.S. colleges or universities will include the award of degree printed on the transcript. For transcripts from foreign institutions, you will need to provide the separate award of degree or degree certificate document. If your college or university uses SPEEDE, you can have your transcript(s) sent electronically. Check with the registrar of your institution to find out if transcripts can be sent via the SPEEDE server, as well as instructions for placing an order. If your college or university uses Parchment, you can have your transcript(s) sent electronically. Please see the Parchment ordering guide for more information. Please note that due to the sending institution’s system limitations, we cannot currently accept transcripts through Parchment from University of Kansas, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), National Louis University, Dartmouth College, Southern Utah University, and Northwestern University. Transcripts that are uploaded by the student and not sent to UT Austin directly by Parchment cannot be considered official. Records from China: The university has entered into an agreement with the National Student Clearinghouse and the Center for Student Services and Development (CSSD) [formerly the China Higher Education Student Information and Career Center (CHESICC)] to transmit and verify academic records from China. Please review the Chinese Credential Verification Document for more information. Otherwise, mail your transcript(s) to the Graduate and International Admissions Center using the submission form. PLEASE NOTE: Other than SPEEDE and Parchment, we cannot accept electronic transcripts sent by registrars or third-party entities in any other format (e.g. by email or by links to secure websites). Meet Immunization Requirements If required, be vaccinated against bacterial meningitis and submit appropriate documentation. Other immunizations are recommended. International students may be subject to additional requirements. Plan for Registration Review course schedules to plan for registration. Stay in Contact Keep in touch with your program. Your graduate coordinator can help you resolve any departmental matters. Additional Steps for International Students In addition to completing other steps required of admitted students, international students should contact the International Office, which provides assistance for incoming and currently enrolled students from other countries. Students Admitted with Conditions A student with insufficient undergraduate preparation or whose grade-point average (GPA) is below the minimum required may be "admitted with conditions" upon the recommendation of the Graduate Studies Committee and with the consent of the dean. Students admitted conditionally are informed of their status by the program and may be required to maintain a GPA or to take a certain number of hours of coursework. Those who do not fulfill the conditions within the specified time may be barred from subsequent registration. Students Denied Admission Admissions to graduate programs at UT Austin are overseen by the Admissions Committee within the individual programs. These committees are composed of experienced faculty members who are best-suited to determine the individuals who best meet program standards. Unfortunately, when there are more qualified applicants than can adequately be instructed by the faculty or accommodated in the facilities, the Admissions Committee for the proposed area may deny admission to many applicants. Admissions recommendations to the graduate dean are final; there is no appeal. For more information about your application, you may contact the program to which you applied. Please note, however, that programs operate at a volume that does not always allow them to provide feedback on individual applications or admissions decisions. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022