Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : Your Application Status Your Application Status After you have completed your application, the Graduate and International Admissions Center (GIAC) will evaluate and forward your materials to the graduate program to which you’re applying. All applications completed and received by the deadline are reviewed by the Graduate Studies Committee (GSC) of the program to which you have applied. Final decisions on admissibility are made only after all factors and credentials related to your educational background have been considered. After the committee makes a decision about your admission, the GSC will forward the decision to GIAC and the dean for final approval. When there are more qualified applicants than can be instructed by the faculty or accommodated in the facilities, the Graduate Studies Committee may deny admission to students who have met the prescribed requirements. Decision Notification As soon as your admission decision is official, it will be posted to MyStatus. You may receive notification of the program’s recommended decision earlier, but the decision is not official until it is posted. In an effort to increase security, multi-factor authentication (Duo) will be required to access most online services that require a UT EID login. Please make sure to set up Duo prior to attemping to log in to MyStatus. No decision correspondence will be mailed; refer to MyStatus for any and all information. (International students will receive additional correspondence regarding immigration and financial responsibility from the International Office.) Quick Links MyStatus Application Instructions After Your Decision Contact Admissions Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022