Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Explore Graduate Programs Division - Any -HumanitiesSocial SciencesNatural SciencesEngineering Program of Study - Any -All admitting degree programsAdmitting Master’s programsAdmitting Ph.D. programsJoint degree programsInterdepartmental programsCertificates Quick Links - Any - Administrative Portal Advanced Degree Application Process AI Position Postings FAQs Forms Graduate Alumni Policies Porter's Lodge SAFE Tuition and Costs Unionization Info Updates and Announcements 2021-2022 Academic Year Information from the Office of the Dean of the Graduate School For resources and FAQs please go to gradschool.princeton.edu/AY2021-2022. Spotlight View allView all news At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment Princeton’s Ph.D. and master’s degree recipients were honored in a ceremony held May 23 on Cannon Green. Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students The award winners are Anna Arabindan-Kesson, Mark Brynildsen, Curtis Callan and Natasha Wheatley. Princeton Research Day returns, fully in-person for the first time in three years The 7th annual edition of the popular event showcased innovation and curiosity-driven research across disciplines at Princeton. The event drew... Grad students and nonprofits are learning from each other in a partnership for the public good Through Princeton’s GradFUTURES Social Impact Fellowship Program students are learning to apply their academic training to high-level projects... Rodney Priestley named dean of Princeton’s Graduate School With a focus on innovation, inclusion and promoting interdisciplinary research and scholarship, Priestley will lead the Graduate School through a peri Three win Jacobus Fellowship, Princeton’s top graduate honor Erin Kado-Fong, Zachary Teed and Spencer Weinreich have been named winners of the 2021-22 Porter Ogden Jacobus Fellowship. Princeton will significantly increase stipends to support graduate students Rates for the upcoming 2022-23 academic year mark the University’s largest one-year increase in graduate student stipends. ‘Nothing is mandatory, nothing is graded’: What we learned at Wintersession From snow sports to bio-inspired engineering to insights from Olympian Allyson Felix, journalist Kara Swisher and ‘Morning Joe’ Scarborough, the... Princeton invigorates ties with New Jersey’s community colleges This year, Princeton will expand its Community College Teaching Partnership as part of a shared commitment to college access and innovation. Events View All Events Princeton Startup Bootcamp, Powered by VentureWell (Day 2 of 3) Wed, Jun 1, 2022, 9:00 am - 5:00 pm Location: View location on My PrincetonU Princeton Startup Bootcamp, Powered by VentureWell (Day 3 of 3) Thu, Jun 2, 2022, 9:00 am - 5:00 pm Location: View location on My PrincetonU Gorgeous Gargoyles: A Tour of Princeton Sun, Jun 5, 2022, 1:00 pm - 2:30 pm Location: View location on My PrincetonU News View All News Friday, April 8, 2022 What do you see when you listen to music? Music isn't a truly universal language, it turns out. Wednesday, April 6, 2022 Princeton's Mellon Fellows are bringing fresh perspectives to research and teaching in architecture, urbanism and the humanities The broadly interdisciplinary fellows program of the Princeton-Mellon Initiative is expanding scholarship on critical issues affecting cities... Monday, March 28, 2022 Princeton alumnus Dennis Sullivan wins Abel Prize for mathematics The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters has awarded the 2022 Abel Prize to Dennis Sullivan, a 1966 Ph.D. Tweets by PrincetonGrad Instagram by @PrincetonGradLife Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University