Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Psychology Ph.D. school Graduate School department Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown University's graduate program in Psychology is designed to prepare students for careers as scientists and teachers who will make contributions to society in academic and applied settings. Brown's Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences (CLPS) is dedicated to the multidisciplinary study of mind, brain, behavior and language. The Psychology program is one of three Ph.D. programs: Cognitive Science, Linguistics and Psychology. Ph.D. students are accepted by the department and formally choose one of the three programs after the first year. The department does not accept students interested in obtaining terminal master's degrees. The department has no Ph.D. or master's programs in clinical, counseling, school or applied psychology. Psychology students will gain a broad competence in the scientific issues, theories, and experimental methods of psychology and will develop expertise in one or more research specializations. Programs of study are highly individualized; decisions about research and coursework are made in close collaboration with a research advisor and graduate committee chosen by each student. Students may change areas, programs, and/or advisors as their interests develop. Students are also encouraged to collaborate with faculty members who are not their primary advisors. Students accepted into the Psychology Ph.D. program are guaranteed five years of financial support contingent on satisfactory progress toward the degree. In addition to the Graduate School's doctoral support, the department also typically provides a summer stipend for a fourth summer if the student continues to work on research over that period. Support normally comes in the form of teaching or research assistantships, and students are encouraged to apply for their own fellowships (e.g., NSF) before or after being admitted to the program. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required Personal Statement: In their statement of purpose, applicants should describe their background and interests as they relate to the preferred Ph.D. program (e.g., Linguistics) and to the research conducted by specific faculty who might serve as research advisors. To this end, we strongly recommend that applicants read the departmental website before applying, giving particular attention to the faculty research descriptions. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 1, 2021 Completion Requirements First–year research project; three core courses, two quantitative courses, three specialization courses; four semesters of teaching assistantships; preliminary exam paper; dissertation proposal; dissertation and oral presentation. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Rebecca D Burwell rebecca_burwell@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies David Badre david_badre@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Psychology) Kathryn T Spoehr kathryn_spoehr@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Linguistics) Uriel Cohen Priva uriel_cohen_priva@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Cognitive Science) Michael Frank michael_frank@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Location Address 190 Thayer Street Mailing Address Brown University Box 1821 CLPS@brown.edu 401-863-2727 Visit the Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Psychology Open details for Psychology Bookmark this Page