Office of Graduate Admission Office of Graduate Admission University of Southern California Register for Spotlight: USC Register for Spotlight: USC Explore Our Programs Apply Admitted Students: Next Steps COVID-19: Transcript Processing ETS Test Code4852 Ask USC Videos FAQs Take me to... Apply to USC Fee Waivers Transcript Requirements Country Requirements English Proficiency Financial Documentation Spotlight: USC Welcome to USC Graduate Admission Explore Our Programs Apply Welcome to Graduate Admission at the University of Southern California, one of the world’s leading private research universities. USC is home to over 27,000 top-caliber graduate and professional students —more than half the entire USC student population— who represent all 50 states and 135 countries around the world. We are proud to host one of the largest numbers of international students in the United States. We offer over 400 highly regarded graduate and professional programs in our liberal arts college and 20 professional schools. We encourage you to review our website to learn more about the graduate student experience at USC and to discover which of our academic programs is best suited for your interests. Instagram Skype Twitter T: 213-740-1111 ©2022 University of Southern California Privacy. Notice of Non-Discrimination. Annual Security & Fire Safety Prospective Student Notification 2022: The University of Southern California’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports (ASR) for the past three years are available online at: https://dps.usc.edu/alerts/annual-report/. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report includes Clery Act crime and fire statistics for the preceding three years for locations owned and or controlled by USC, the required policy disclosure statements and other important safety related information. A paper copy of the ASR is available on request made to Department of Public Safety Records by calling (213) 740-6000, by email to DPSRecords@dps.usc.edu or in person at DPS at 3667 South McClintock Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90089. Search: Search