Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Student Resources > New Graduate Student Information New Graduate Student Information STUDENT RESOURCES University Policies New Student Information Graduate Student Ambassadors Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Welcome to The University of Tulsa! We look forward to working with you during the upcoming semester and hope all your preparations are going well. The summer semester begins on Monday, May 16th, 2022. The fall semester begins on Monday, August 22nd, 2022. We have compiled a wealth of information for new students, from enrollment to orientation, to help you prepare for your upcoming semester here at TU. Please use the checklist below to help you navigate next steps. We look forward to your arrival on campus and meeting you at the Graduate Student Orientation! Sincerely, Brenton McLaury Dean of Graduate School & Vice Provost for Research General Questions If you have questions about any of the information on this page or any other questions, please call the Graduate School at 918-631-2336 or email grad@utulsa.edu. New Student Information Checklist BEFORE YOU ARRIVE Complete your Intent to Enroll: Before you continue to the next steps: let us know that you would like to attend TU! Pay your Deposit and/or Application Fees: Check your application status page to see if you have any outstanding application-related fees. Accept Assistantships/Fellowships: If you were offered an assistantship/fellowship by TU, please return award notification as soon as possible to the Graduate School to indicate whether you will be accepting the offer. (Please note that award notification is separate from the admission letter but can also be found on your application status page). Explore financial aid (outside sources – loans, scholarships, etc.): Contact Kristi Emerson at the Financial Aid office at kristi-emerson@utulsa.edu if you are interested in applying for federal financial aid (U.S. Citizens only) or are coordinating outside scholarships. International students will need to submit your certification of financial resources form: If you require a student visa, this form will allow you to submit your passport, bank statements, or other supporting documents related to immigration documentation. Be sure to have secured your scholarships/funding before completing this form. Visit the TU IT portal to claim your account: utulsa.teamdynamix.com You will receive an email with your student ID and TUNetID. You will use your TUNetID to set up your account. Choose security questions and answer verification. Once you submit the information, you will receive an email to verify your account. Upon completing the verification steps from the email, your account will be activated. For assistance, please contact the TU IT Help Desk at 918-631-3500 or help@utulsa.edu. Contact your program advisor: Listed in your admission letter and discuss possible course choices for the upcoming semester, financial aid options, and any questions you may have about the department or program. Complete the Virtual Enrollment Card and enroll!!!! We will notify you when enrollment opens for your start term. All graduate students receiving scholarships, assistantships, or fellowships should be enrolled by August 9th for the Fall 2022 semester to ensure the timely receipt of stipend checks at the end of the month. Other offices on campus must have time to process your billing, which is generated once you have registered for courses. Arrange to meet admissions conditions: These may include missing application materials so be sure to submit them to secure your place in class. Submit official transcripts: If you haven’t already, you will need to send official transcripts for each university attended to the graduate school. (International students who have difficulty accessing official documents may submit these upon arrival to campus). Submit immunization information: Records must be sent to Alexander Health Center. If you have questions regarding this requirement, please contact AHCMedical@utulsa.edu. Save the date for Orientation: You will be emailed about Orientation, so be sure to check your TU email often. Housing: Contact housing@utulsa.edu for information on housing opportunities if needed. Secure student ID cards/parking permit: Students who take classes on campus are required to have a student ID card. Students must have their ID card to access buildings. Additionally, if you wish to park a vehicle on campus you will need a parking permit. Information about ID cards and parking permits can be found at https://utulsa.edu/parking/. Confirm health insurance information: All students enrolled at TU are required to have health insurance coverage that provides benefits in the state of Oklahoma. This can be accomplished by obtaining coverage offered by the university or providing proof of health insurance coverage by another carrier that provides benefits in Oklahoma. If you would like to use your own health insurance, you will need to decline the coverage that TU provides. Please note: if you start in Summer, you will not need to decline your health insurance until the following Fall. More information can be found at utulsa.edu/bursar/student-health-insurance/. AFTER YOU ARRIVE International student check-in with CGE: More information can be found here. Attend Orientation: and complete all related requirements. Join the Graduate School Student Association (optional): Whether you choose to join the association or not, the Graduate Student Association Facebook group is a good resource to find out what is happening on campus, connect with other students, and learn more about things to do in Tulsa. Additional questions? Here are some pages to help you navigate your time at TU. Housing & Dining Enrollment Information Campus Recreation Registrar International Student & Scholar Services Financial Aid Graduate Student Orientation Our virtual orientation is housed in Harvey. Be on the lookout for an email to follow. All new graduate students are expected to complete Orientation prior to beginning graduate classes. They are also expected to follow all policies and guidelines related to student conduct and to the successful completion of their degree program. 2022 Fall Semester Virtual Orientation Live Welcome Event Held on August 19th at 6:00pm You will have the opportunity to meet some of our staff and faculty, learn about a variety of student services available to you free of charge, and ask questions at the end during our Q&A session. Please notify the Graduate School if you will be unable to attend either by emailing Caitlin Getchell at caitlin-getchell@utulsa.edu or by calling the Graduate School at 918-631-2336 or 1-800-882-4723 if you are outside of the Tulsa area. Enrollment Complete an Online Enrollment Card You should be enrolled no later than the first day of classes. Enrollment generally opens for the spring semester on the last Monday in October and in the first week of April for the summer and fall semesters. Please meet with your advisor to discuss your enrollment, then complete the online enrollment card for processing. If you have any questions, please email our Enrollment Advisor. Departmental Orientations In addition to the general orientation offered through the Graduate School, individual departments will be organizing program-specific orientations for their new graduate students. Below is a list of the Fall 2021 departmental orientations we are currently aware of and the contact person for each event. Additional information regarding these events will be sent to you by the department directly. If you do not see your program listed, we are not currently aware of the date and time of the department orientation for your program. Your advisor will contact you when a departmental orientation is added. PROGRAM DATE TIME CONTACT Athletic Training – – Rachel Hildebrand Biological Sciences – – Harrington Wells Energy Business Residency Seminar I TBD TBD Tom Seng Chemical Engineering – – Ty Johannes Computer Science/Cyber Security – – Brett McKinney Adult Gerontology-Acute Care Nurse Practitioner TBD TBD Andrea Wall Electrical & Computer Eng. – – Heng-Ming Tai English TBD TBD Sara Beam International Students TBD TBD Kim Henderson Mechanical Engineering TBD TBD Siamack Shirazi Museum Science & Mgmt – – Bob Pickering Petroleum Engineering TBD TBD Hong Quan Zhang Psychology (all clinical and IO students) TBD TBD Dani Veit Psychology-Clinical TBD TBD Dani Veit Psychology-Industrial/Organizational TBD TBD Dani Veit Speech Pathology TBD TBD Kris Foyil New Graduate Assistantship Workshop All graduate students receiving scholarships, assistantships, or fellowships should be enrolled by August 9th for the Fall 2022 semester to ensure the timely receipt of stipend checks at the end of the month. Other offices on campus must have time to process your billing, which is generated once you have registered for courses. Housing For information regarding on-campus housing, please click here. If you are interested in off-campus housing, contact grad@utulsa.edu to request more information. Map & Directions to Campus We want to help you get here. Below are links to the online map, a printable map with names of buildings, as well as detailed directions to campus. Campus Map & Printable Map Directions to Campus 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT