Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » Preparing Future Faculty » FAQs Set Navigation title in component Preparing Future Faculty FAQs Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources PFF: Frequently Asked Questions About the Preparing Future Faculty Program What is PFF? right arrow down arrow PFF (Preparing Future Faculty) is a participatory professional development program offered by UC. It is designed for students who plan to enter academia as instructors in search of tenure-track positions. It seeks to improve the teaching abilities of its students and to give students the tools they need to enter the academic job market. Do other universities know what PFF is? right arrow down arrow Yes! The Preparing Future Faculty program is a national movement, launched in 1993 by Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) and the Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U). Many other institutions have PFF programs, such as The Ohio State University, the University of Michigan, and the University of Kentucky (to name a few). Who is eligible for the PFF program? right arrow down arrow Current PFF participants include master's, doctoral, and postdoctoral students. Any student who has earned a bachelor's degree is eligible to join. Students must have access to UC's Uptown campus to participate in most of the PFF events. How long does it take to complete the program? right arrow down arrow Students choose which participation tier they would like to complete in their work with PFF. Each tier has different requirements, taking different amounts of time. It's possible for students to complete the PFF Participant tier in one semester, and to complete the PFF Fellow and Graduate tier in two semesters. Will the program extend my time to degree? right arrow down arrow No. When completed over multiple years, Preparing Future Faculty will require only a small time commitment each semester. May I complete the requirements in any order? right arrow down arrow You may work on most of the requirements in any order you choose, except that you must take the Teaching Effectiveness course before you begin your membership. Also, as the mentorship serves as the capstone experience, it should be one of the last requirements you complete. May I begin completing program requirements before actually applying? right arrow down arrow Some PFF events will be retroactively counted towards your program progress. However, this must be approved by the PFF coordinator, the student is responsible for proving attendance, and an activity log may be required. If you've participated in activities that you'd like counted retroactively, contact the program coordinator. What is the PFF Outlook SharePoint, and do I need to join it? right arrow down arrow The PFF Outlook SharePoint is an online community organization that gives its members access to announcements, articles, reading group schedules, workshop dates and times, job opportunities, and a variety of other resources. In order to participate in PFF, you need to join this group. Once you've been accepted into the program (or arranged to participate in reading groups or workshops), the program coordinator will add you to the organization. You will then be able to access it through your Outlook account. PFF Courses When are Teaching Effectiveness and Academic Job Search offered? right arrow down arrow Teaching Effectiveness is offered only in the fall semester. The Academic Job Search is offered only in the spring semester. Both courses are pass/fail. When should I take the courses? right arrow down arrow You should plan to take Teaching Effectiveness a semester or two before you plan to start your mentoring experience; as part of the Teaching Effectiveness course, you will work on composing a mentorship proposal and agreement. The Academic Job Search may be taken at any point. However, the students who are able to align course enrollment with their active job search are the ones who find the course the most valuable. Students—particularly doctoral students—who enroll in the course in their final or penultimate year find the course much more useful than those who complete the course early in their doctoral program. PFF-Approved Workshops What are the workshops and how do I participate in them? right arrow down arrow Each semester, UC offers a variety of professional development workshops and seminars. Some of these workshops are related to teaching and academic work. The PFF program coordinator chooses appropriate workshops and lists them on the PFF website. Visit the PFF workshop page to find out when and where workshops occur, what topics they will cover, and how to register for the workshops. May I receive credit for participating in workshops not listed as approved PFF courses? right arrow down arrow Possibly. If you are interested in attending a workshop not listed by the program coordinator, you must receive the coordinator's approval to earn credit. Send the coordinator an email (gradpff@uc.edu) describing the topic of the workshop and its relationship to PFF. Include the location and time of the workshop as well. How do I report my attendance of a workshop? right arrow down arrow Students must complete an activity log after their participation in workshops. Activity logs are available on Outlook SharePoint or by emailing gradpff@uc.edu. Completed logs should be sent to the program coordinator within one month of the event. Reading Groups What are the reading groups? right arrow down arrow Each semester, the PFF program offers five reading groups on topics related to teaching. For example, the reading groups may cover such topics as Women in Academia, Building a Rapport with Students, Teaching Critical Thinking, Issues of Ethics for College Teachers, or Collaborative Learning. To find out when these groups will occur, and what the readings for each meeting will be, either visit the Readings Groups page. This page will provide meeting dates and times and the required readings. The Outlook Sharepoint will also have the PDF files of the assigned readings (while the webpage will not). All you have to do from there is attend the group and participate in discussion. How do I lead a reading group? right arrow down arrow Leading a reading group is a requirement for the PFF Graduate tier. However, any student interested in leading is welcome to! Interested students can indicate their preference on the reading group registration link or by emailing the program coordinator. How long are the reading groups? right arrow down arrow In-person reading groups are scheduled for 90 minutes. Typically, one online reading group is offered every semester. These online reading groups use a discussion board, which is open for three days. How do I report my attendance at an in-person reading group? right arrow down arrow The group leaders will have an attendance sheet that all participants will need to sign. This sheet is sent to the program coordinator to confirm attendance. In addition, after participating in a reading group, students are required to complete an activity log in order to receive PFF credit. Activity logs are available on the resources page or by emailing the program coordinator. How do I participate in an online reading group? right arrow down arrow Online reading groups are offered 1–2 times per semester. The online reading groups take place via Google Groups. You will need a Google account in order to participate. (Google accounts are free and easy to create.) The program coordinator creates specific groups for each reading group, and before the first day of the group arrives, he or she will add registered students as participants. At that point, the leaders will have already accessed the group space and posted questions, and they will ask additional questions and guide the conversation as the group progresses. The Mentorship Experience What is the mentorship? right arrow down arrow In the mentoring experience, students establish a relationship with a faculty member from an institution of higher education. The student and mentor plan a mentoring experience, which consists of approximately 40-hours of involvement together, during which the mentor may evaluate the student's teaching or otherwise broaden the student's knowledge of the academic career. What if I have a lot of teaching experience? How will the mentorship experience benefit me? right arrow down arrow If a student has a lot of teaching experience, he or she may qualify for a nonstandard experience. To qualify, the PFF student must have been primarily responsible for teaching and assessing at least ten undergraduate classes. Students who pursue nonstandard experiences are also held to a higher standard in their mentoring agreement contracts and must work on a more advanced pedagogical issue than those in a standard mentorship. For example, a nonstandard mentorship might be geared toward creating and designing a new course or a jointly-taught course. Whom may I choose as my mentor? right arrow down arrow You may choose any faculty member from a university or college (excepting your academic advisor and UC faculty on UC's Uptown Campus), but you should consider your own interests and career goals before making a decision. If, for example, you're interested in working for a community college rather than a university (where teaching is emphasized over research), consider choosing a faculty member from a local community college. Additionally, you will probably want to choose an instructor working in an area similar to yours. The PFF coordinator is available to help you find a mentor. If you want assistance with selecting a mentor, email gradpff@uc.edu to schedule an appointment with the PFF coordinator. How do I find a mentor? right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati has connections with Xavier University, Mount St. Joseph University, Northern Kentucky University, UC Blue Ash College, and other area institutions which will enable you to find a mentor. You may survey the faculty members from these colleges and either contact them directly or request that the program coordinator facilitate. The PFF program maintains a contact person at each institution who can assist a student with finding a mentor at that institution. If you want assistance with finding a mentor, email gradpff@uc.edu to schedule an appointment with the PFF coordinator. Is there a benefit to completing my mentoring with a non-UC faculty member? right arrow down arrow Effective for students not matriculated prior to the fall 2019 application deadline, mentorships must occur off of UC's Uptown Campus. If you want to pursue a teaching-focused academic career, then you may want to choose a faculty member from a non-research-intensive institution (such as a community college) as your mentor. Additionally, choosing a non-UC faculty member broadens your experience of academic life, exposing you to different methods, styles, and techniques. Mount St. Joseph University, for example, is much smaller than UC, and thus an academic position there will be much different than one at a larger institution. Ultimately, you must choose a faculty member in a position and at a location that will most benefit your career and pedagogical goals. PFF Contact Whom should I contact for help or more information? You should contact the current program coordinator, Cory Whitworth, at gradpff@uc.edu with any questions or concerns you have. You may also contact Megan Tischner, program coordinator for all Graduate School professional development programming, at megan.tischner@uc.edu. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top