Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home About Us : Welcome from the Dean Welcome from the Dean Greetings from the Graduate School, and welcome to The University of Texas at Austin! You have joined a vibrant community of scholars surrounded by exceptional libraries, computer facilities, academic departments, programs, research units, centers and labs. But most importantly, you are now a member of an extraordinary group of people—our faculty, students and staff—who stand among the most productive in the nation. As a graduate student, you will spend some of the most challenging and fulfilling years of your life immersed in a compelling academic environment, working alongside remarkable researchers to broaden knowledge, advance discoveries and make original and substantial contributions to your discipline. I encourage you to put to use every resource the university has to offer. Take advantage of your time here. Work hard; enjoy yourself. Change the world! Mark J. T. Smith, Ph.D. Dean of the Graduate School Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs About Dean Smith About Dean Smith Dr. Smith is widely recognized for his academic contributions and research in speech and image processing as well as object detection and recognition. He was also a member of the U.S. Olympic fencing teams in 1980 and 1984. He holds an undergraduate degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a master’s degree and doctorate from the Georgia Institute of Technology. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022