Navigate Search Social Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Orientation Professional Development Research Days Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog How to Get a Ph.D. A Guide to Choosing and Applying to Ph.D. Programs Download Full Guide What is it Like to Pursue a Doctorate Degree? The decision to pursue a Ph.D. in any field is difficult — it’s a significant investment of your time and resources, with several unknowns along the way. Although it is a big commitment, 75% of students surveyed are happy with the decision to pursue a Ph.D. If you have a genuine love for a subject and wish to become a thought leader or researcher in your area of expertise, we encourage you to review our Ph.D. guidance resource. In this guide we'll prepare you to overcome any setbacks, share Ph.D. application tips, and answer common questions like: How to look for Ph.D. programs How to apply for a doctorate program How many years it takes to get a Ph.D. What does fully funded Ph.D. mean A Guide to Choosing and Applying to Ph.D. Programs We'll email you a PDF of the eBook for your reference as you apply to graduate school. Access Insider Information! Which Ph.D. Program is Right For Me? On the surface it may seem like many institutions offer similar doctoral degree options. So, how do you choose the program that best suites your academic and financial needs? Access our guide for straightforward, professional advice to help you make an informed decision about pursing a Ph.D. How to Finance Your Ph.D. Program Your Ph.D. should be funded by the University and/or program as a tuition scholarship and a stipend. Download the guide to explore the various types of funding, assistantships, and fellowships available to doctoral students (plus how the Moody School of Graduate & Advanced Studies compares to general aid offers). Download the Full Guide to Choosing and Applying for Ph.D. Programs Request More Information Would you like to learn more about your graduate program of interest or available fellowships for Ph.D. student? Submit the form to connect with a representative from your intended department, College, or School. Let's Chat! © Southern Methodist University The Moody School of Graduate & Advanced Studies | P.O. Box 0240, Dallas, TX 75275-0240 Contact Admission Graduate News About Us