Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Science, Technology, and Environmental Policy (STEP) Academic Year: 2021-22 Department or Program: Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Affiliated Departments: Civil and Environmental Engineering Computer Science Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Economics Electrical and Computer Engineering Environmental Studies Geosciences Molecular Biology Politics Population Studies Sociology Address: Robertson Hall Phone: 609-258-2109 Website: Science, Technology, and Environmental Policy Program offerings: Certificate Director of Graduate Studies Elke Weber Graduate Program Administrator Abby Stern Cardinale Keely Swan Overview Princeton University's Program in Science, Technology and Environmental Policy (STEP) is based in the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs with strong ties to the Princeton Environmental Institute. Many aspects of science and technology policy debates have been tackled with the tools of political,economic, and behavioral analysis. In addition to providing a systematic introduction to the field of policy analysis, the goal of the STEP program is to develop a deeper understanding of current scientific, technological, and environmental issues and potential local, national and international policy responses. The Program provides interdisciplinary training that facilitates communication between technical experts and policy makers. Increasing numbers of students in the SPIA generally, and in the STEP program in particular, have a primary interest in environmental science and technology policy, including global climate change, air pollution, negotiated environmental accords, biodiversity, environmental economics, environmental justice, and the connection between the environment and development. Research in these areas and others such as biotechnology and nuclear-weapons policy is facilitated by the Program's ties with the High Meadows Environmental Institute; the Departments of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Molecular Biology, and Geosciences; the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory; the Program on Science & Global Security; and the Office of Population Research. Certificate Certificate Requirements: Program Description: The program offers a certificate option for SPIA master's students and for enrolled students at the master’s or Ph.D. level from other degree-granting departments within the University. Students may not be admitted to the University only through the certificate program. The certificate does not appear on the official transcript, but there is a plan to seek approval for this to appear on the transcript for Ph.D. students from other departments. SPIA master’s students and Ph.D. students from other departments can enroll in the certificate program online at https://spianet.princeton.edu/spiaforms/cert_declare.php. The enrollment is non-binding. Ph.D. students should first discuss their plans to complete the certificate with their dissertation chairs. Courses: To earn the certificate, candidates from SPIA must complete four approved courses at B+ or better and an approved research paper. We encourage MPA1’s with little or no background in natural science to take a science course as one of their four STEP approved courses (which may be chosen from among appropriate undergraduate or graduate offerings outside the SPI). STEP certificate candidates from departments outside SPIA are required to complete three approved courses at B+ or better and a paper judged to be of publishable quality if they are enrolled for a PhD. degree at Princeton. Recent course offerings include: SPI 548 Weapons of Mass Destruction and International Security SPI 586d Global Environmental Governance SPI 586f Technology Policy and Law SPI 594r Behavioral Science in Environmental Policy SPI 594s Climate Change: Science, Policy and Mitigation Additional Requirements: The Paper Requirement All advanced policy papers submitted in fulfillment of the certificate requirements must be approved by the STEP faculty chair. For SPIA master's students, it is expected that most MPA and MPP candidates will write the advanced policy paper in the context of one of their STEP approved courses. Only papers receiving a grade of B+ or above will be eligible to satisfy this requirement. Non-SPIA master's and Ph.D. students must meet the advanced policy paper requirement as well. For STEP-HMEI fellows and other Ph.D. certificate applicants, the advanced policy paper must be deemed of publishable quality. Often times a policy chapter of the student's dissertation has met this requirement. Faculty Director Michael Oppenheimer Executive Committee Alexander Glaser, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Denise L. Mauzerall, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Michael Oppenheimer, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Elke U. Weber, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Associated Faculty Andy P. Dobson, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Lars O. Hedin, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Jesse D. Jenkins, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Melissa Lane, Politics Simon A. Levin, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Ning Lin, Civil and Environmental Eng Guy J.P. Nordenson, Architecture Harold T. Shapiro, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Peter A. Singer, Center for Human Values Janet A. Vertesi, Sociology Jerry C. Zee, Anthropology Sits with Committee Smita B. Brunnermeier Amy B. Craft Robert O. Keohane Eric D. Larson Timothy D. Searchinger For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University