Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Award Opportunities » Distinguished Dissertation Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Awards This award is sponsored jointly by the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) and ProQuest Dissertations Publishing, a division of ProQuest Information and Learning. The University of Cincinnati selects one student per category to nominate for the CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award. Two awards are given annually in two of four different broad categories: Biological Sciences; Humanities and Fine Arts; Social Sciences; and Mathematics, Physical Sciences and Engineering. Upcoming Award Cycles (2021 and 2022) The Graduate School is accepting nominations for the CGS (Council of Graduate Schools)/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award from programs, faculty and students. The students chosen by the Graduate School selection committee to represent UC in the CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award will each receive a $350 prize. Should either of the UC nominees win the national competition, the student will receive an award of $2000, plus reasonable travel expenses to attend the Council of Graduate Schools annual meeting. The Graduate School will nominate one student per category to the national competition. Biological Sciences programs and Humanities / Fine Arts programs The Graduate School may nominate one student from each category (biological sciences category and humanities/fine arts category) to represent UC in the 2021 CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award competition. We request that you submit to us your best students who have graduated between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2021 (a two-year period). Social Sciences programs and Mathematics / Physical Sciences / Engineering programs The Graduate School may nominate one student from each category (social sciences category and mathematics/physical sciences/engineering category) to represent UC in the 2022 CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award competition. Students who have graduated between July 1, 2020 and June 30, 2022 (a two-year period) are eligible. We request that you prepare nominations now for any outstanding students who graduated this academic year, as the nomination packet must include an extended abstract (written by the student) and three letters of recommendation (written by the committee chair, a committee member and a third person of the student's choice). Application Guidelines The nomination application must include: An abstract of the nominee’s dissertation (not to exceed 10 double-spaced pages). Appendices containing other materials, such as charts, tables, and/or references, may be included as additional pages (not to exceed five pages). All pages should be numbered, and each should bear the name of the nominee. Three letters of recommendation evaluating the significance and quality of the nominee's dissertation work should be included in the nomination materials. One of these letters should be from the nominee's dissertation supervisor; another from a member of the nominee's dissertation committee; and the third from a person of the nominee's choice. The nominee's curriculum vitae (not to exceed five pages). Nomination applications for biological sciences category and humanities/fine arts students will be due to Megan Tischner in the Graduate School by 5 p.m. on June 1, 2021. However, nomination packets may be submitted at any time prior to that date. Please see the submission guidelines below for details. Advice for Writing and Compiling Materials for the Application Packet Based on feedback from previous years' selection committees, here are some tips for students and faculty preparing an application packet: Both students and letter writers should keep in mind that they are writing for a general audience. These categories cover a broad range of programs and disciplines, so there is no guarantee that your material will be reviewed by someone from your specific field. Both students and letter writers should make it abundantly clear what the impact of the student's dissertation work is within the field. Once again, keep in mind that your materials may be reviewed by someone outside your field. What may be obvious to you in terms of the work's impact may not be clear to the outside reviewer unless it is explicitly stated. Consider the abstract to be a professional text and include the appropriate citations. Provide a structure for this extended abstract, such as an introduction with an objective, the aims or goals of the work, results and future work. You do not need to use this exact structure, but composing the abstract with sections and headings is highly recommended. While the abstract must be 10 pages or fewer of text, you are allowed to include additional information such as figures, tables, references and a brief CV. However, please make sure that all of these additional materials are necessary. Submission Guidelines All nomination materials for biological sciences category and humanities/fine arts students must be submitted electronically to Megan Tischner, c/o the Graduate School. Submit all materials together (in the same email or in the same shared cloud storage folder). Materials must be submitted by 5 p.m. on June 1, 2021. Incomplete and late submissions will be rejected, no exceptions. Send nomination applications to Megan Tischner, via email attachment or shared cloud storage folder, at megan.tischner@uc.edu. Please direct questions to megan.tischner@uc.edu. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top