Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Student Resources > Graduate Student Organizations Graduate Student Organizations STUDENT RESOURCES University Policies New Student Information Graduate Student Ambassadors Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links The University of Tulsa supports a number of student-led organizations so students can share their interests and experiences with others. Graduate students at TU have a number of opportunities to participate in associations specifically created for graduate students. Graduate Student Association GSA is a multipurpose organization designed to bring the graduate student community closer together. GSA hosts social and networking events to encourage interdisciplinary discussion between students, participates in community service events both on and off campus, teaches seminars on life skills and promotes relationships between the undergraduate and graduate students. Below is a list of additional Graduate Organizations specifically related to graduate students: Biology Graduate Student Association The purpose of this organization is to promote communication and camaraderie between graduate students of biological sciences; provide opportunities to meet with professionals in the field; to provide opportunities for informal journal reviews; and to promote support from peers in the areas of research, academics, and professional presentations. Our mission is to enhance the experience of the graduate student in the biological sciences by providing professional and social support as well as unique learning opportunities. English Graduate Student Association The English Graduate Student Association of the University of Tulsa provides academic and professional development through colloquia, guest speakers, and discussion. We also advocate the growth and welfare of the graduate student community by representing the needs of its members and by helping to build social bonds among its members. The English Graduate Student organization also participates in a yearlong writing mentorship program with students from Central High School located in Tulsa, OK. Graduate Business Student Association The GBSA was founded in the fall of 2002 to achieve the following: promote interaction among graduate students to develop friendships, develop networking opportunities with companies and business professionals, serve as a source for communicating information about on campus as well as off-campus events and mentor new graduate students. Graduate Chemistry Association The Graduate Chemistry Association helps chemistry graduate students build a better community, prepare for presentations and conferences and to collectively organize thoughts and decisions for the department. Graduate Students in Psychology GRASP includes all psychology graduate students in industrial organizational and clinical psychology. Our mission statement is to promote a spirit of cooperation and cohesion–and not one of competition–between graduate students; to provide meaningful opportunities for both professional and personal growth; and to foster collaborative relationships between psychology faculty and students. Indian Student Association This organization provides services and encourages camaraderie and promotes scholastic and athletic excellence among Indian students of the University of Tulsa. The group also encourages cultural exchange between students from India and the rest of the TU community. Persian Student Association This organization provides services and encourages camaraderie and promotes scholastic and athletic excellence among Persian students of the University of Tulsa. The group also encourages cultural exchange between students from Iran and the rest of the TU community. Utulsa Museum Association This organization connects Museum Science and Management students with other graduate students interested in museum culture and cultural events/institutions in the area. Phi Lambda Upsilon Phi Lambda Upsilon was founded in March 1899 at the University of Illinois. It was the first honor society to be dedicated to a single scientific discipline. PLU is the National Honor Society that recognizes those who achieve excellence in chemistry both pure and applied fields (chemistry, biochemistry, and chemical engineering). Alpha Lambda Anthropology Club The main goal of Lambda Alpha –TU Chapter is to provide with excellent coverage of novel academic research on relevant subjects within the four fields of anthropology, to push our members both undergraduate and graduate to achieve better academic performance through presentations on research they collaborate with or of their own, and provide them with useful professional skills so that they can become competitive once they graduate from The University of Tulsa. In addition, Lambda Alpha works as a platform for current members to network with incoming Guest speakers who are recognized experts on their respective fields as well as with other TU students who do not necessarily want to major in Anthropology , but might potentially join Lambda Alpha. Lambda Alpha also participates in community service events such as World Anthropology Day and Archaeology Day. American Association of Petroleum Geologist Since its founding in 1917, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists has been a pillar of the worldwide scientific community. The original purpose of AAPG, to foster scientific research, to advance the science of geology, to promote technology, and to inspire high professional conduct, still guides the Association today. AAPG also participates in community service events such as TU Service day and STEM fairs to educate children and help them find a passion for engineering and science. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT