Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Graduate Admissions Student Affairs Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu Search Programs Search Degrees Applying Admitted Students About Visit the Graduate Student Gateway for information about enrollment, financial aid, housing and more. For information about how we collect and use your personal information online, as well as a description of the rights and choices you have with regard to this personal information, please review our Online Privacy Policy. For information about how we collect and use your personal information over the phone, in person, or otherwise offline, as well as a description of the rights and choices you have with regard to this personal information, please review our Offline Privacy Notice. Quick Links Apply Now Application Activity Status Page Frequently Asked Questions Academic Calendar Stanford Bulletin ExploreCourses Diversity in Graduate Education Student Services Center Resources for Staff (SUNet Login Required) Home Search Programs Search by Program Name Your Starting Point for Stanford Graduate Study Welcome to Graduate Admissions, Office of the University Registrar, Stanford University. The tabs above contain detailed instructions and information on applying to Stanford's graduate programs. Decisions regarding admission are made by the admitting departments, however, all offers of admission are subject to verification of university admission requirements such as degree conferral, academic transcripts, official test scores and English proficiency, by Graduate Admissions, Office of the University Registrar. Professional School Applications If you are applying to any of these schools, please visit their websites for information on their application processes and to access their applications. Law School School of Medicine (M.D., Medical Scientist Training Program, and Physician Assistant Studies programs) Graduate School of Business Jeanne Clery Act Stanford complies with the Jeanne Clery Act and publishes crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. View the full report. Student Affairs The Office of Graduate Admissions is proud to be part of Student Affairs, which educates students to make meaningful contributions as citizens of a complex world. Helpful Links Get emergency assistance or find help View the Stanford non-discrimination policy Student Affairs supports accessibility Report a website problem Contact Us Graduate Admissions Student and Academic Services 408 Panama Mall, Suite 217 Stanford, CA 94305-6032 Phone: +1-866-432-7472 Fax: 650-723-8371 gradadmissions@stanford.edu Campus Map Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.