GRAD 360° Home About About GRAD 360° About the Tiger 9 Resources Career Exploration and Planning Tools General Career Resources Tiger 9 Resources Registering for GRAD 360° Events Events Login Graduate Students and Postdocs Registering for GRAD 360° Events GRAD 360° uses an online registration system that allows you to reserve your spot in Signature GRAD 360° workshops and trainings before you attend! Searching for events and registering is simple and easy. Here's how you do it: Go to grad360.sites.clemson.edu and login. Create a profile if you haven't already. Go to the Events page to review upcoming events. Search for events in one of the Tiger 9 focus areas, scroll through the list, or select the calendar view option. Read the event description and click the register button. You'll receive an automated message when you've successfully registered for the Signature event. You can add events to your ical and Google calendars, and sign-up for text message reminders. It's all up to you! Attendance Policy If you cannot attend a GRAD 360° Signature Event for which you are registered, please unregister using the "Unregister" button. No-show participants who have not unregistered prior to the the event will be subject to suspension from registration for Signature Events for ONE SEMESTER after receiving three written warnings. GRAD 360° Signature Events are FREE to all graduate students and postdoctoral scholars at Clemson University. A valid ID card must be presented for entrance. Schedule is subject to change without notice. If the university closes due to inclement weather, all offerings will be canceled until the university re-opens. Please call (864) 656-5202 or email grad360@clemson.edu with questions. Twitter Copyright © GRAD 360° - Clemson Graduate School 2020 GRAD 360° provides content as a service to Clemson University graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. Some GRAD 360° events and content may not be in accord with every trainees’ personal priorities, opinions, or beliefs. A very broad range of topics, content and perspectives is required to serve the professional development needs of every member of our graduate student and postdoctoral scholar populations, diverse in every aspect. The content, views, opinions, and positions expressed by the presenters of GRAD 360° events are their own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Graduate School, Clemson University, or any of its units or employees.