Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » Workshops » Past Workshops Set Navigation title in component Workshops Past Workshops Preparing Future Faculty Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Past Workshops 2021-2022 Academic Year Principles of Visual Communication Thursday, November 4, 2021 1:00pm to 2:30pm Whether you’re presenting a research paper during class or defending your research at your thesis/dissertation defense, drawing on basic visual communication principles will improve the delivery of your next research presentation. When visual aids are effectively used in a research presentation, they become a powerful tool for capturing an audience’s attention. They can communicate complex information with a single glance, emphasize the role of key data in your research results, or accommodate different styles of learning. As such, visual aids should not be an afterthought, but should receive the same level of consideration as crafting an oral or written message. This workshop will cover principles of visual communication, including visual flow, use of white space and color, visual balance, identifying intuitive symbols for your audience, accessibility guidelines, accurately representing data, and more.Replace with your text Get them to Listen: How to Get Anyone (from Grant Committees to your Grandma) Excited about Your Research Wednesday, September 22nd, 2021 11:00am to 12:30pm Have you ever tried to explain your research or academic work to a friend or family member and gotten nothing but blank stares back? If you're a graduate student, you likely know how to talk about your work to colleagues and mentors but might find it harder to get non-experts interested in what you do. In this workshop, participants will learn how to get any group engaged and excited about their academic work or research. Learn how to avoid jargon; distil your work into meaningful, audience-appropriate talking points; utilize metaphor, storytelling, and other engagement techniques; and communicate why your work matters to experts and non-experts alike. Successfully communicating about your research is a vital skill in interviewing, networking, and grant writing—not to mention that it makes you a more interesting dinner guest. 2020-21 Academic Year Info Sessions for the Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Competition Monday, November 16, 12-1pm Tuesday, November 24, 11:30am-12:30pm Learn more about Three Minute Thesis and get answers to all your questions about this year's competition. 2019-20 Academic Year Making Your Research Resonate with any Audience Thursday, November 12th, 2020, 12:30pm to 2pm Have you ever tried to explain your research to someone who "just doesn't get it"? What do you do if you need to make sure that the person you're communicating with "gets it"? Sometimes in grad school, we become accustomed to conversing and presenting research with colleagues in same field of study. This allows us to forget how to approach an interdisciplinary audience that isn’t familiar with the field’s foundational concepts or terms. This workshop will aid students in formulating an oral or written presentation that is accessible and interesting to a well-educated, broad audience; but at the same time, prevent the students’ research from being trivialized or oversimplified. It will address creating a narrative, choosing audience-appropriate language, persuasion techniques, and more. These skills will be useful for networking, seeking research/scholarship collaborators, grant writing, proposals for academic/research journal publication, conference presentation, and more. Principles of Visual Communication Tuesday, October 13th, 2020, 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Whether you’re presenting a research paper during class or defending your research at your thesis/dissertation defense, drawing on basic visual communication principles will improve the delivery of your next research presentation. When visual aids are effectively used in a research presentation, they become a powerful tool for capturing an audience’s attention. They can communicate complex information with a single glance, emphasize the role of key data in your research results, or accommodate different styles of learning. As such, visual aids should not be an afterthought, but should receive the same level of consideration as crafting an oral or written message. This workshop will cover principles of visual communication, including visual flow, use of white space and color, visual balance, identifying intuitive symbols for your audience, accessibility guidelines, accurately representing data, and more. 2019-2020 Academic Year Preparing Future Faculty - Acing the Academic Interview Wednesday, February 26, 2020 from 11:30am - 1:00pm Tangeman University Center (TUC), Room 415 Hosted by UC's Preparing Future Faculty program, this workshop will offer students with a crash course on acing the academic interview. Join participants and Dr. Scott Belck to discuss the basics of academic interviews, quick tips, and considerations. By the end of the workshop, participants will have a better idea of what to expect on interview day and will gain guidance on how to leave a lasting impression. This workshop is specifically geared towards academic interviews, for those planning on pursuing faculty positions. Resume & Cover Letter Writing Workshop February 11, 2020 from 11am to 12pm Langsam Library, Room 475 Enjoy light breakfast and refreshments as you pick up some tips and tricks at this joint workshop with the Academic Writing Center. Workshop Series - Strategic Public Speaking This workshop was offered twice, the first on November 12, 2019 on the Medical Campus and the second on November 13, 2019 on the West Campus. Instructor: Dr. Brian Calfano Associate Professor of Journalism and Political Science Workshop #3 in the workshop series, Composing Your Presentation Toolkit. Participation in workshop #1 or 2 not needed for this workshop. You’ve crafted your argument and designed visual aids, so now you need to present your work. This workshop will focus on maximizing physical presence during the presentation, including using a mic, regulating speed/volume of your speech, effective use of body language and movement, making eye contact with the audience, seamlessly incorporating visual aids into your presentation, and more. Writing Your Diversity Statement This workshop was originally held on October 29, 2019. Join UC's Preparing Future Faculty program, in collaboration with the UC Academic Writing Center, in an interactive workshop on writing your diversity statement. This workshop is designed for those preparing to apply to faculty positions within academia. Students will receive instruction and tips on writing a diversity statement and will have the opportunity to interact with PFF and Academic Writing Center staff. Preparing faculty applications? This workshop might be right for you! Workshop Series - Visual Presentation Aids: Principles of Visual Communication This workshop was offered twice, the first on October 22, 2019 on the Medical Campus and the second on November 6, 2019 on West Campus. Instructor: Dr. Lora Arduser Director of Professional and Technical Writing Program and Associate Professor of English Workshop #2 in the workshop series, Composing Your Presentation Toolkit. Participation in workshop #1 not needed for this workshop. What makes for a good visual aid? Effective visual aids can capture audience attention, provide an alternate method of sharing information to accommodate different learning methods, and can present complex information in a single glance. As such, visual aids should not be an afterthought, but should receive the same level of consideration as crafting an oral or written message. This workshop will cover principles of visual communication, including visual flow, use of white space and color, visual balance, identifying intuitive symbols for your audience, accessibility guidelines, accurately representing data, and more. Scholarly Organizations: Having a Successful Conferencing Experience This workshop was held on October 18. Let’s talk about conferences! Conferences are one of the first opportunities for graduate students to engage with fellow researchers and scholars as peers. However, planning and preparing for your first conference experience can be a nerve-wracking experience – especially if you will also be presenting. This workshop will equip you with all the tools necessary for making the most of your first conference, from navigating conference “norms” and conventions to networking and making a positive impression to anticipating what office supplies, presentation materials, and even clothing to pack. The first half of the program will feature a guide to the academic conference experience by Dr. Marcus Johnson, Associate Professor of Educational Studies, CECH. The second half will feature a graduate student panel with experienced conference presenters. These students will speak about the ways they benefited from attending a conference, what they wish they could have done differently, and their tips for navigating the conference experience. Workshop Series - Navigating Between Disciplines: How to Make Your Research Speak to Any Audience Workshop #1 in the workshop series, Composing Your Presentation Toolkit. This workshop was offered twice, on September 26 on the Medical Campus and October 3 on the West Campus. Instructor: Dr. Suzanne Boys Professor of Communication & Public Relations Program Director Have you noticed that your written or oral communication skills need some refinement? Sometimes in grad school, we become accustomed to conversing and presenting research with colleagues in same field of study. This allows us to forget how to approach an interdisciplinary audience that isn’t familiar with the field’s foundational concepts or terms. This workshop will aid students in formulating an oral or written presentation that is accessible and interesting to a well-educated, broad audience; but at the same time, prevent the students’ research from being trivialized or oversimplified. It will address creating a narrative, choosing audience-appropriate language, persuasion techniques, and more. These skills will be useful for networking, seeking research/scholarship collaborators, grant writing, proposals for academic/research journal publication, conference presentation, and more. Preparing Future Faculty Information Session This information session was held twice, on September 17 on the West Campus and September 30 on the Medical Campus. Interested in joining UC's Preparing Future Faculty program? Curious about a career in academia? Preparing to become a professor? Join UC's Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) program for an informational session. During this session, we will cover the mission of PFF, the elements of PFF, and potential benefits of PFF. Come hear about the program and discover what PFF can do for you. 2018-19 Academic Year Graduate Student Writing Workshops The Academic Writing Center is offering a series of writing workshops. These workshops are tailored to the writing needs of the graduate student experience and will provide the skills that you need to be successful in your academic journey. Refreshments will be provided. Registration is required. Cover Letter: February 6, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 475. Graduate Reading Strategies: February 13, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 462. Writing an Introduction and Conclusion: February 20, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 462. Plagiarism and Paraphrasing: February 27, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 475. Publication for Beginners: March 6, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 475. Common Grammar and Punctuation Errors: March 13, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 462. Developing Research Question and Starting Your Dissertation: March 27, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 475. Writing Your Dissertation Proposal: April 3, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 475. Comprehensive Exam Strategies: April 10, from 12-1pm in Langsam Library 475. Questions? Email: joseph.cunningham@uc.edu. Conflict Resolution for Graduate Students Does meeting with your MA/PhD advisor totally stress you out? Does it seem impossible to fulfill your GA responsibilities and do excellent academic work at the same time? Are you suffering from a chronic case of "Imposter Syndrome"? The Ombuds Office is here to help! Come spend an hour learning constructive conflict tips and tools to help successfully navigate your graduate program at UC. Lunch will be provided. When: Wednesday, November 14, 12 p.m.–1:30 p.m. Where: AACRC (60 W. Charlton St., West Campus) Main Lounge Financial Literacy Workshop Tuesday, November 7, 5–7 p.m. Medical Campus, French East 135 Pizza will be provided. If you would like more information about this event, please contact Chalee Engelhard, or check out the event's official flyer. Donuts & Development Presented by The Graduate School. Thursday, September 6th, 2018, 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., TUC 400ABC. The Graduate School's "Donuts & Development” is a professional development event for all graduate students. The purpose of this event is to provide graduate students with a one-stop shop to visit representatives from various professional development groups, offices, and courses across the university. Stop by to grab some free breakfast and coffee and hear about opportunities for preparing for the job search, teaching preparation, writing guidance, diversity & inclusion events, and more! Questions? Email gradcurrents@uc.edu. Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) Information Session Thursday, September 27, 12–1:30 p.m. AACRC (60 W. Charlton St., West Campus) Main Lounge Calling all graduate students, postdocs and newly admitted students of PFF: if it’s your goal to be a professor one day, then please join us for the Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) Information Session. The UC PFF program provides instruction in modern teaching and learning and offers rich mentoring experiences that strengthen these career skills. The PFF program: prepares graduate students for academic careers at postsecondary institutions; helps graduate students conduct productive job searches and achieve early career success; and provides professional development that does not extend time-to-degree. If you would like more information about the PFF program, please contact gradpff@uc.edu. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top