Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Graduate College Main Menu In this section Prospective Students Student Services Financing Your Graduate Education International Students Admissions Request Information Application Process Apply Programs Master's & Doctoral Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Online Programs Professional Development About the Program Events Graduate Student Success Center Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Best Practices About Us About the Graduate College Meet the Staff Grad Ambassadors Graduate College Application Process FAQs FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Apply Application Process Graduate College Graduate College202 Whitehurst Stillwater, Ok 74078(405)744-6368grad-i@okstate.edu FAQs Can I complete part of online application and finish it later? Yes, you can begin an online application and finish it later. The application will remember information you have previously entered, and save it for you to finish at a later date. After signing in using the email address and password you provided when you created your sign-in account, click the ‘View Applications in Progress’ link from the main menu to edit your saved application. Once you have submitted your application, you will not be able to edit it again. Can supporting documents arrive after the deadline? There is a possibility that the program will not review credentials that arrive after their application deadline. In addition, some programs will not review your application unless all supporting materials are included. As a reminder, all credentials submitted in support of an application the property of Oklahoma State University and cannot be returned. I am reapplying, what do I need to do? Previous applicants who were not admitted to the Graduate College and applicants who declined a previous offer of admission must submit a new application, application fee, and support documents. Applicants wanting to change from one program to another program must submit another application,application fee, and support documents. I want to change my submitted application from one program to another program and have the application fee transfer to that new program. Can I do that? Unfortunately, no. You will need to submit a new application and an additional application fee to indicate your interest in the new program. If your decision is to not to continue to pursue the original application, please contact our office via email or written letter indicating that you wish to cancel your original application so that we may inform that program. This will stop them from making contact to you about completing an application that you are no longer pursuing. Can I substitute GMAT/MCAT/LSAT scores for the GRE? If a specific test is required, typically other test scores cannot be substituted. Some graduate programs in the College of Education will accept the Millers Analogy Test (MAT) instead of a GRE score. The Master's of Business Administration (MBA) accepts GMAT or the GRE. It is important that you contact the program about their admission requirements to determine if this test or other tests are required. Additionally, some programs require the GRE subject test. Please review the admissions requirements for the program that interests you. How are multiple GRE scores treated? GRE scores are one of the many criteria used to evaluate an applicant. Individual departments' practices may differ, but generally the last test score reported is the one used. Keep in mind that the score report will include all scores from the tests taken within the last 5 years. I took the TOEFL, PTE Academic, or IELTS in the past. Do I have to take it again ? The English proficiency examination must have been taken within the last two years. For students whose scores do not meet the admission cut-offs or who have scores that are older than two years, the test will need to be taken again. Additional information is on the English Proficiency page. For additional information and the latest updates on the TOEFL, please visit http://www.ets.org/toefl For additional information and the latest updates on the IELTS, please visit http://www.ielts.org/ Do you offer application fee waivers? OSU Alum Application Fee Waiver The OSU Graduate College has an application fee waiver program? As an OSU student or alum, you qualify for a single application fee waiver for admission $25-75 value depending on degree and residency statuses. Military /Veteran Application Fee Waiver (Effective starting Spring of 2023) If you are a current member or veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces, National Guard, or Reserves, you are eligible for a waiver of the graduate application fee. To receive this waiver, you’ll be asked to include with your application one of the following forms of documentation: a copy of your active duty orders, DD214, or NGB-22. Other forms of documentation may be possible; please contact us by email at grad-i@okstate.edu or by telephone at (405) 744-6368 if you have any questions. My question is not answered- What do I do? If your question is not answered above and you want to contact the Graduate College, please call us at 405-744-6368 or send an e-mail to grad-i@okstate.edu. We will make every effort to respond as quickly as possible. Most emails are answered within 24 hours of receipt. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate College Request Information Graduate College 202 Whitehurst Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-6368 | Email the Graduate College Follow US Research NewsReport a Broken LinkCalendarUniversity Resources Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©