Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » New Students » UC Lingo Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Know Your UC Lingo UC is home to 13 colleges, dozens of buildings, and many, many departments and offices. So it’s no surprise that new and current students sometimes get tripped up by unfamiliar terms or similar-sounding building names. To help you start strong this fall semester, the Graduate School has compiled some need-to-know lingo and names. A&S: College of Arts and Sciences Bearcats: The name of UC's athletic teams. The team mascot is the Bearcat. Read about the history of the Bearcat. Bearcat Card: Your UC student ID card can double as a debit card to be used for on-campus and off-campus purchases. CAHS: College of Allied Health Sciences Canopy: Canopy is UC’s eLearning ecosystem. Canopy provides access to Canvas, as well as a variety of tools like LinkedIn Learning, WebEx, Kaltura , and Echo360. Canvas: UC's new learning management system. Canvas replaced Blackboard. Catalyst: Catalyst is UC's student information system, used by students to take care of student-related services, from adding and dropping classes to paying UC bills. Use Catalyst to view your scholarships and awards (in the My Finances section) as well as your class schedule. CCM: College-Conservatory of Music CEAS: College of Engineering and Applied Science CECH: College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services CRC: the Campus Recreation Center DAAP: College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning French buildings: Two buildings are named French. French East (sometimes called the French Building) is on the east (Medical) campus and houses most of the departments in the College of Allied Health Sciences. French Hall (also called French West) is located on the west campus across from the Jefferson Residence Hall Complex. French West houses the Learning Commons and A&S departments such as mathematical sciences, Judiac studies, and women's, gender, and sexuality studies. However, for the 2019-20 AY, these departments are temporarily moving to 2925 Campus Green Drive, due to French Hall West renovations. GradCURRENTS: This weekly graduate student newsletter shares job openings, upcoming events, important deadlines, and useful information about grad life. Great Hall: The large meeting room on the fourth floor of Tangeman University Center. GSHI v. UC SHI: The acronym GSHI always refers to the Graduate Student Health Insurance award. Undergraduates and graduate students who accept UC Student Health Insurnace (SHI) receive the same coverage and pay the same price. There is no graduate student health insurance plan. Lindner Hall v. Lindner Center: There are two Lindner facilities. Carl H. Lindner Hall, usually shortened to Lindner Hall, houses the College of Business. The Richard E. Lindner Center is the athletics center and the home of the University Health Services' health clinic on the west campus. Lucille: A bearcat (also known as a binturong) from the Cincinnati Zoo and a member of the UC cheerleading squad. Lucille makes frequent appearances at UC sporting events, and she smells like hot popcorn. Learn more about Lucille and student discounts for the zoo at here. M-Number: Your student ID number. MainStreet: A corridor that stretches from University Pavilion, past Tangeman University Center, along the Steger Student Life Center and the Campus Recreation Center, ending at Sigma Sigma Commons. One Stop: The One Stop Student Services Center. Located in University Pavilion and online. Where to go to register for classes, check financial aid status, view bills, check grades and request transcripts. TUC: Tangeman University Center; otherwise known as the student union. TUC is home to the bookstore, a food court, a movie theater, the MainStreet ExpressMart and Catskeller (UC's on-campus pub). University Hall v. University Pavilion: University Hall is located on east (Medical) campus and houses the central UC HR office. University Pavilion is located on west campus and houses One Stop, Financial Aid, the Career Development Center, Veteran Affairs, the Testing Center, Disabilities Services, Tutoring Services and the Office of the President. Did we miss something important? Email program coordinator Megan Tischner at megan.tischner@uc.edu. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top