Skip to main content The Graduate School Menu Close About Ask the Dean Protect the GradPack People Mission & Vision Academic Calendar Doctoral Exam Schedule Contact Us Graduate Programs Admissions Financial Support Residency Priority Deadlines Students New Graduate Student Orientation International Students Fellowships and Grants Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Diversity Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) Graduate Peer Mentoring Catalog and Handbook Professional Development Career Support Events Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Responsible Conduct of Research Teaching Support Workshops and Development Series Writing Support Faculty & Staff Forms and Data Slate GSC Resources ABGS Resources Resources for Student Funding Curriculum Development Program Assessment Recruiting Resources Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Alumni & Giving Think Magazine Give Now About About Ask the Dean Protect the GradPack People Mission & Vision Academic Calendar Doctoral Exam Schedule Contact Us Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Admissions Admissions Financial Support Residency Priority Deadlines Students Students New Graduate Student Orientation International Students Fellowships and Grants Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Diversity Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) Graduate Peer Mentoring Catalog and Handbook Professional Development Professional Development Career Support Events Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Responsible Conduct of Research Teaching Support Workshops and Development Series Writing Support Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Forms and Data Slate GSC Resources ABGS Resources Resources for Student Funding Curriculum Development Program Assessment Recruiting Resources Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Think Magazine Give Now Professional Development The Graduate School's professional development programs enhance graduate student and postdoctoral success by providing academic and career support, mentoring, and co-curricular experiences. Signature Programs Our signature Professional Development programs help you develop a foundation for long-term scholarly and professional success. We offer innovative programs for careers in industry and academia as well as writing, teaching, and research support to enrich your personal and professional satisfaction during your time at NC State and beyond. Accelerate to Industry (A2i) Program To accelerate your transition to industry and to transform graduate education, we’ve designed a bold, new approach to workforce readiness. Academic Packways: Gearing Up for Faculty Designed to prepare students and postdocs for the responsibilities and roles of early-career faculty and prepare them for the competitive academic job market. Writing Retreat An intensive week-long retreat for advanced graduate students who want to make significant progress toward the completion of their dissertation, thesis, capstone project, prospectus, or journal article. Engineering Writing Support We work with graduate engineering writers to develop communication strategies for their academic endeavors and professional careers. Career Retreat Gearing up for diverse career pathways including industry and faculty roles, the Career Retreat offers postdocs and late-stage doctoral candidates the opportunity to attend professional development programming that will help them explore and pursue a variety of careers. New TA Workshop In addition to providing a basic overview of best practices in teaching and related topics, this 1-day workshop connects participants to resources that they can draw on in the future. Preparing the Professoriate A nationally recognized year-long program that gives doctoral students and postdoctoral scholars an immersive mentoring, teaching, and future faculty preparation experience. Teaching and Communication Certificate Designed to increase accessibility, flexibility, and transferability of teaching and communication training for all graduate students and postdocs at NC State. Workshops and Series We offer workshops and workshop series that provide sustained support, practice, and feedback on key aspects of teaching, communication, writing, and career management. Writing Support We provide coaching, communities, and embedded writing instruction for graduate student and postdoctoral writers in all disciplines and at all levels. Professional Development Newsletter Sign up to receive the latest information about Professional Development programs and opportunities. Subscribe Mission, Goals, and Learning Objectives The mission of the Graduate School’s Professional Development Initiative is promote the academic success, career satisfaction, and personal and professional wellness for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars across the disciplines. Our programs increase doctoral completion and reduce time to degree by providing mentoring, community experiences, co-curricular opportunities, and professional training. By participating in the Graduate School’s Professional Development programs, students and postdocs will be able to: Engage in interdisciplinary academic and professional communities. Chart a career pathway that draws on personal strengths and disciplinary knowledge. Write and communicate effectively for diverse audiences. Develop a strategy for workforce readiness that enables professional edge and personal satisfaction. Stay Connected The vision of OPA is to enhance, support and promote the postdoctoral experience so that postdoctoral scholars can contribute effectively to the research and scholarly endeavors of NC State University, develop their professional skills more intently, and move on to rewarding and successful careers. Learn More Resources for Faculty The Professional Development team is eager to partner with faculty across campus to provide systematic professional development support for graduate students. Our team can work with you individually to develop strategies for mentoring graduate student writers, integrating writing and communication more explicitly into graduate curricula, designing graduate-level assignments, and more. Request a conversation with a member of our team, a targeted workshop, or a class visit. The Graduate School Home 1020 Main Campus Drive Room 2300A Raleigh, NC 27695-7102 919.515.2872 Campus Map Accessibility Apply Ask Us Contact Us Give Now People Privacy Professional Development Programs MyPack Portal News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.