Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Diversity & Inclusion Student Organizations Annual Renaissance Ball Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Fireside Chat with Black Graduate Alumni: Reflections on the History of the Black Graduate and Professional Student Association (BGPSA) and the Influences of the Harlem Renaissance Friday, February 12 | 4:00 to 5:30 pm EST Since its inception at Cornell University, the Black Graduate and Professional Student Association (BGPSA) has served as a pivotal network addressing the needs and concerns of Graduate and Professional Students of African descent at Cornell University. Historically, BGPSA has also worked closely with Black faculty and staff and is involved in issues that affect the Ithaca and broader Black community. In celebration of the Harlem Renaissance, BGPSA founded the Renaissance Ball at Cornell in 2011. This now collaborative event of the Graduate and Professional Student Diversity Council and the Graduate School Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement celebrates the excellence within the Black and other graduate communities of those from backgrounds historically excluded from academia. This panel discussion explored the history of the BGPSA with past leaders whose contributions have had a lasting impact on the greater Cornell graduate community. Moderator: Tibra Wheeler, Ph.D. candidate, Biomedical Engineering Panelists: Chavez Carter, Ph.D. ’15 in Biomedical and Biological Sciences, Director Medical Relations at La Roche-Posay USA Cameron Bardliving, MS ’10, Ph.D. ’13 in Biomedical Engineering, Director of Product Development and Operations at Jefferson Institute for Bioprocessing Enongo A. Lumumba-Kasongo, BA ’08, MA ’15, Ph.D. ’19 in Science and Technology Studies, Mellon Gateway Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Music at Brown University Lory Reveil, Ph.D. ’19 in Microbiology, Director of Scientific and Regulatory Affairs at American Frozen Food Institute Dexter Thomas, Ph.D. ’20 in Asian Literature, Religion and Culture, Culture Correspondent at VICE News View the recording of the Fireside Chat with Black Graduate Alumni. Read an article about this panel discussion. About the Panelists Tibra Wheeler Tibra Wheeler is a 5th year Ph.D. candidate in Biomedical Engineering with a concentration in orthopedics, biomaterials, and drug Delivery at Cornell University. Tibra’s research focuses on determining the role of the immune response in osteoarthritis (OA). Tibra is a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow, a Colman Scholar, and a Cornell Dean Scholar. Prior to Cornell, Tibra received her BS in Biomedical Engineering from the University of South Carolina. Outside of research, she has been heavily involved in giving back to underrepresented minority groups through her mentoring work in various offices across Cornell’s campus working with high school, undergraduate, and graduate students. Tibra hopes to continue her work to take leaps and bounds towards changing the status quo and changing what the world “thinks” an engineer should “look” like. Dr. Chavez Carter Chavez Carter is a native of Summit, MS. He is a graduate of the College of Biomedical and Biological Sciences in the Department of Immunology and Infectious Disease with Dr. Avery August. After graduation, he went on to do a Post Doc in Recombinant Immunotherapy under Carl Batts. Chavez was very active both academically and civically. He is a recipient of the Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, Cornell Provost Diversity Fellowship, Distinguished Leadership Award, and Cornell University Student of Color Exemplary Service Award. Additionally, he is a member of the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society and Omega Psi Phi. Chavez was one of several original organizers of Cornell’s Graduate Student Renaissance Ball. Additionally, he is the former President of the Black Graduate and Professional Student Association and the first Diversity and International Student Committee Chair in the Graduate and Professional Assembly. After leaving Cornell University, Chavez started a career in medical affairs as a Medical Science Liaison. He has successfully helped to launch new biologic therapies in the field of dermatology. Currently, Chavez is the Director of Medical Relations at La Roche-Posay of L’Oreal. He is tasked with heading medical dermatology and key opinion leaders relations. Dr. Cameron Bardliving Dr. Cameron Bardliving is Director of Operations at the Jefferson Institute for Bioprocessing (JIB) and Assistant Professor in Kanbar College of Design, Engineering & Commerce at Thomas Jefferson University. JIB is a state-of-the-art single use GMP simulated training facility dedicated to closing the workforce gap in biopharmaceutical manufacturing and development through on hands-on training of industry professionals and students. He has experience in academia and industry with a focus in bioprocessing and biopharmaceutical processing development. Prior to joining JIB, Dr. Bardliving was an Assistant Professor in the Amgen Bioprocessing Center at Keck Graduate Institute where he led research activities with industry partners in the areas of continuous biomanufacturing, computational modeling and emerging therapeutics. He received his B.S in Chemical Engineering from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County and his PhD in Biomedical Engineering from Cornell. Dr. Enongo A. Lumumba-Kasongo Enongo Lumumba-Kasongo is a Gateway Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Music at Brown University, where she teaches courses in rap songwriting and feminist sound studies. She earned her PhD in Science & Technology Studies from Cornell University in 2019 where she was inducted into the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society. Her doctoral research explores the politics of community-studios, a term she has developed for fixed and mobile recording studios that prioritize working with artists from “underserved” communities as well as women and non-binary artists with the goal of providing these groups with free and low-cost recording services and education. In addition to her research and pedagogical practice, Dr. Lumumba-Kasongo also performs original music as a producer and rapper under the moniker Sammus. In 2019 she began working as an audio director at Glow Up Games, an R&D game studio responsible for developing a rap composition video game based on the HBO scripted series Insecure. Drawing on her experience working on the game, Enongo’s forthcoming research will focus on the challenges of designing rap composition tools that prioritize hip-hop heads and gamers while engaging with broader cultural conversations about problematic yet ubiquitous phenomena like “digital blackface,” “blackfishing,” and the “blaccent” as they are performed and circulated on apps like TikTok and Instagram. Dr. Lory Reveil Dr. Lory O. Reveil is currently the director of scientific and regulatory affairs at the American Frozen Food Institute. She holds a Ph.D. in Microbiology with a specialization in Food Microbiology and Genetics from Cornell University. Dr. Reveil received Bachelor of Science degrees in Biology and Psychology from the University of New Mexico, where she was an IMSD scholar and graduated Summa Cum Laude. She is passionate about mentoring and is a strong advocate for engaging young people in science. During her studies at Cornell, she spearheaded science literacy efforts as part of 4H and Expanding your Horizons to provide hands-on experience to underrepresented New York-area middle and high school students. Her work and service have been recognized through acceptance in the prestigious Bouchet Honor Society. Dr. Dexter Thomas Dexter Thomas is from San Bernardino, CA. He graduated from The University of California, Riverside in 2006 as an English major, Dexter lived in Tokyo for a few years, is fluent in Japanese, sorta okay in Spanish and Mandarin, Dexter earned a PhD in Asian Studies from Cornell University where he was inducted into the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society. He spends most of his days on journalism, working as a correspondent on Vice News Tonight, formerly on HBO, now on VICE TV, and sometimes on Showtime. Thus far, Dexter has received a Fulbright, contributed to Pulitzer-winning coverage in his work with the Los Angeles Times, and has been nominated for an Emmy (twice). He also established the world’s largest public collection of Japanese hip-hop. He is still working on getting that XXL Freshman nod though. Coffee Chat with Black Graduate Alumni: Voices from the African Diaspora and the Community We Built at Cornell Saturday, February 13 | 11:00 am to 12:30 pm EST The Black graduate community at Cornell is reflective of the broader African Diaspora and includes members who strongly identify with their roots in Africa and the Caribbean. This panel discussion with Black graduate alumni representing diverse identities within the African Diaspora explored their experiences in building community and establishing a sense of belonging as graduate students at Cornell. Moderator: Bam Willoughby, Ph.D. Candidate, Africana Studies Panelists: Ornella D. Nelson, MS ’15, Ph.D. ’18 in Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Senior Scientist at AbbVie Stéphie-Anne Dulièpre DVM ’20, Supervisory Public Health Veterinarian at the U.S. Department of Agriculture Ikenna Madu, Ph.D. ’10 in Biochemistry, Molecular and Cell Biology, Senior Manager of Strategic Alliances and Business Development at Oregon Health and Science University View the recording of the Coffee Chat with Black Graduate Alumni. About the Panelists Bam Willoughby Bam Willoughby is a Doctoral Candidate of Africana Studies at Africana Studies & Research Center at Cornell University, where they serve on the Executive Council of the Ottoman and Turkish Studies Initiative and are affiliated with the Near Eastern Studies Center. Before teaching as a Doctoral Candidate at the university level, Bam taught for three years in the standardized test preparation system, at Testmasters Education Center and for four years as a Spanish Language Instructor in Dartmouth College’s Department of Spanish Languages and Literatures. They held a visiting researcher fellowship at Koc University’s Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. These days, Bam is a managing editor of Edinburg University Press’s Gender and Islam Book Series Advisory Board. Outside of academe, Bam was a former coordinator of Ithaca’s Planned Parenthood LGBTQ Youth Program. Dr. Ornella Nelson Ornella is originally from the twin-island Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. She received her B.S. in Chemistry from Cameron University in 2012 and her Ph.D. in Chemistry and Chemical Biology from Cornell University in 2018. During her Ph.D., she received a Provost’s Diversity Fellowship, a NIH funded Chemistry Biology Interface Grant and was inducted into the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society. She was also a Graduate Student Ambassador, a mentor for the Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates (GSMU) program, and a member of the Black Graduate Student Association (BGPSA). She served as BGPSA President in 2015. Currently, Ornella is a Senior Scientist at the pharmaceutical company AbbVie, where she performs protein conjugations and analytical characterizations to support Biologics discovery programs. Dr. Stéphie-Anne Dulièpre Dr. Stéphie-Anne Dulièpre is a recent graduate of the Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine class of 2020. She was born in Queens, NY but has lived in Haiti for the 11 years before returning to the States. She graduated from Hunter College in New York City with a major in Biology and minors in Dance as well as Mathematics & Statistics. Dr. Dulièpre is passionate about anything involving conservation medicine, public health, and policy/advocacy and one days hopes to expand her work in Haiti. She enjoys engaging with underrepresented communities and finding new ways to get people excited about veterinary medicine who would otherwise not have access to the field. Dr. Dulièpre has been involved in organized medicine and DEI during and after her studies and is currently on the board of the Multicultural Veterinary Medical Association (MCVMA) where she engages with and advocates for veterinary professionals of all backgrounds and circumstances. She has been running competitively since high school and today she can still be found running a few 5k races in her spare time. Currently Dr. Dulièpre is a Supervisory Public Health Officer with the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Pennsylvania and a Veterinary Associate at the Eastern Animal Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland. Dr. Ikenna Madu Ikenna joined Oregon Health and Science University’s (OHSU) Knight Cancer Institute (KCI) as a Senior Alliance manager and brings over a decade of leadership in antiviral drug development, discovery to first-in-human clinical trials, program management and business development. Since joining OHSU, Dr. Madu has had the pleasure to support and drive partnership efforts that align with KCI and its goal to eliminate cancer. Most recently, Dr. Madu was a senior scientist at Kineta Inc. where he led in the development of LHF-535, a potent Lassa hemorrhagic fever antiviral. He made significant contributions to describe this potential therapy as a broad-spectrum arenavirus antiviral and supported efforts to secure millions of dollars in non-dilutive funding and to get an antiviral asset to the clinic. Prior to joining Kineta Inc., Dr. Madu was a Molecular medicine research fellow in the lab of Dr. Yuan Chen at the City of Hope in Duarte, CA. He led the early characterization of a small molecule scaffold with anti-HIV properties. At Cornell University, Dr. Madu also worked briefly as a Post-Doc in the lab of his Mentor Dr. Gary Whittaker to highlight the roles host proteases play in coronavirus entry. Dr. Madu received his Ph.D. on SARS-CoV entry from Cornell University and his MBA with a marketing focus from Washington State University. Dr. Madu has a strong sense of duty to translational R&D and the ways it can seed innovative, faster, cheaper, accessible and safer therapies across many indications. Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022