Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Grad Life & Student Resources » Safety Resources Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Safety Resources Campus life can keep you busy day and night. Whether you’re leaving a night class, working late in the lab or studying at home, you should know about the strategies UC and the city of Cincinnati have implemented to keep you safe. The past few years have brought more officers patrolling campus, improved street lighting around campus and safety technology to help with reporting crimes. Although the crime rates for UC and the surrounding Clifton area have been declining, it’s still important to stay aware of the available safety resources. Important Numbers Emergency: 911 Non-Emergency: 513-556-1111 (West Campus); 513-558-1111 (Medical Campus) NightRide: 513-556-4927 Off-Campus Housing Fire Inspection: 513-357-7585 NightRide & Shuttle Services During the day, the UC shuttle has you covered for transportation between campuses and throughout the surrounding areas. When you need to get around at night, take advantage of the NightRide Shuttle managed by Transportation Services, which runs from 8pm-2:30am. There are 15 shuttle stops within a one-mile radius of campus. Make sure to have your valid UC ID card, and remember you can bring one non-UC person with you as a guest. Live tracking of shuttles is available on the NightRide Website. Bearcat Guardian App If you need to report an incident around campus, use the Bearcat Guardian app to do so quickly and effectively. You can contact UC police with one touch by phone or through a message, anonymously if needed, with built-in GPS technology that lets emergency personnel know where you are. Bearcat Guardian is a state-of-the-art safety app that allows you to turn your cell phone into a safety device. It works on any mobile phone running on any US-based mobile carrier network. The app also allows you to select "guardians" (such as friends and family members) to check in on you when you are alone or in an unfamiliar place; set-up a safety timer with a location and expected arrival time; and receive emergency notifications from UC Public Safety. You can download the Bearcat Guardian app for free on the Apple App Store or Google Play. Search for “Rave Guardian.” After installing, ensure location and notification service has been enabled and register with your cell phone number and university email address. Please keep in mind, though, that safety technology devices are not a substitute for services like NightRide and the UC shuttle. Public Safety UC’s Department of Public Safety is your ultimate resource for vital safety services. Stay up-to-date on the latest reports with their daily crime log and crime statistics. Public Safety’s mission is to facilitate a safe campus environment for everyone, so be sure to take full advantage of the many resources they offer. Blue Help Phones You’ve probably seen those blue telephone posts that are scattered around campus—with 280 strategically placed around UC, they’re difficult to miss. Pay attention to the location of these phones along your normal route, just in case you ever need to make an unexpected call. The blue help phones connect directly to dispatchers in UC’s 911 Communications Center. You can also use them to make non-emergency calls. Off-Campus Fire Safety September and October are peak months for fires in college housing. Make sure you take every precaution to prevent a fire with the Cincinnati Safe Student Housing Program. Created in 2013 in the memory of four Cincinnati college students who lost their lives in off-campus house fires, this program offers a list of houses and apartments approved by the Cincinnati Fire Department. Residents or landlords can also request a free inspection (to view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download) of their residence through the fire department. If you want to be sure your house or apartment satisfies the fire code, fill out this form to schedule a free inspection. Your landlord must remedy any inconsistencies with the fire code within 30 days after the inspection is completed. When you’re trying to keep up with a busy schedule, it can be easy to push safety precautions to the back of your mind. However, always remember that crimes, fires and other safety hazards do happen. UC and the city of Cincinnati are constantly developing new services and resources to keep you safe, both on and off campus. Be sure to make use of these tools during your time at UC. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top