Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Data Science Sc.M. department Graduate School Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Data Science Initiative at Brown offers a master's program that will prepare students from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds for distinctive careers in Data Science. Big data is generating a fundamental revolution in many scholarly and intellectual endeavors. Large scale data sets come from digitized analog content created over centuries as well as new data from a large number of sources such as remote sensing, mobile devices, genomic studies, brain images, massive administrative databases, simulation runs, retail transactions, and cameras. These new data sets, coupled with algorithmic and statistical techniques for advanced analysis, make it possible to improve human well–being, accelerate scientific discovery, advance scholarship, and create new social and commercial value. Extracting meaning and value from increasingly complex and voluminous data requires a distinctive set of skills, methods and tools that have been woven together to form an emerging discipline called "Data Science." This new discipline integrates foundational elements from computer science, mathematics and statistics, and combines them meaningfully with deep domain–area knowledge. The Data Science Initiative at Brown offers a master's program that prepares students from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds for distinctive careers in Data Science. Rooted in a research collaboration among four very strong academic departments, the master's program offers a rigorous, distinctive, and attractive education for people building careers in Data Science and/or in Big Data Management. The program's main goal is to provide a fundamental understanding of the methods and algorithms of Data Science. This is achieved through a study of relevant topics in mathematics, statistics and computer science, including machine learning, data mining, security and privacy, visualization, and data management. The program also provides experience in important, frontline data–science problems in a variety of fields and introduces students to ethical and societal considerations surrounding data science and its applications. The program's course structure, including the capstone experience, will ensure that the students meet the goals of acquiring and integrating foundational knowledge for data science, applying this understanding in relation to specific problems, and appreciating the broader ramifications of data–driven approaches to human activity. Admission Information Inquire Students entering the program will be required to have completed at least a year of calculus (at the level of MATH 0090 & 0100), a semester of linear algebra (at the level of MATH 0520), a semester of calculus–based probability and statistics (at the level of APMA 1650), and an introduction to programming (at the level of CSCI 0150 or 0170). Admitted students will consult with the program director to acquire any additional preparation for the program. Please see the Data Science Initiative website for more information. If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Required; the GRE General Test at home version is accepted. TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Writing Sample: Optional Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline February 1, 2022 5th Year Deadline May 1, 2021 Financial Aid Tuition: 9 courses over 1 to 2 years; please visit the Tuition Information section of the Data Science Initiative Apply page for full details on the cost of the program. Scholarships: Not available Completion Requirements 3 credits in mathematical and statistical foundations 3 credits in data and computational science 1 credit in societal implications and opportunities 1 elective credit to be drawn from a wide range of focused applications or deeper theoretical exploration 1 credit capstone experience, which includes a paper and/or oral presentation Thesis: Not required. Alumni Outcomes Learn More Leadership Director of the Data Science Initiative Sohini Ramachandran sohini_ramachandran@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Andras Zsom andras_zsom@brown.edu Contact and Location Data Science Initiative Location Address Brown University 164 Angell St, 3rd Floor Mailing Address Brown University Box 1891 dsi-academic@brown.edu 401-863-6956 Visit the Data Science Initiative Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Data Science Open details for Data Science Bookmark this Page