Skip to main content The Graduate School Menu Close About Ask the Dean Protect the GradPack People Mission & Vision Academic Calendar Doctoral Exam Schedule Contact Us Graduate Programs Admissions Financial Support Residency Priority Deadlines Students New Graduate Student Orientation International Students Fellowships and Grants Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Diversity Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) Graduate Peer Mentoring Catalog and Handbook Professional Development Career Support Events Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Responsible Conduct of Research Teaching Support Workshops and Development Series Writing Support Faculty & Staff Forms and Data Slate GSC Resources ABGS Resources Resources for Student Funding Curriculum Development Program Assessment Recruiting Resources Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Alumni & Giving Think Magazine Give Now About About Ask the Dean Protect the GradPack People Mission & Vision Academic Calendar Doctoral Exam Schedule Contact Us Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Admissions Admissions Financial Support Residency Priority Deadlines Students Students New Graduate Student Orientation International Students Fellowships and Grants Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Diversity Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) Graduate Peer Mentoring Catalog and Handbook Professional Development Professional Development Career Support Events Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Responsible Conduct of Research Teaching Support Workshops and Development Series Writing Support Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Forms and Data Slate GSC Resources ABGS Resources Resources for Student Funding Curriculum Development Program Assessment Recruiting Resources Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Think Magazine Give Now Diversity Diversity is an inclusive collection of individuals and groups who bring varied human characteristics, backgrounds, interests and points of view to enrich the university community. NC State actively pursues student body and faculty diversity – creating a welcoming climate for all scholars while broadening our academic perspective. Play Video The Graduate School strongly supports diversity in graduate education through graduate student organizations, professional development, and funding opportunities. There are a number of programs offered through the Graduate School that are designed to increase diversity at NC State and to create a more inclusive and welcoming environment for the entire university community. A series of “Graduate Student Crosstalks” are held each semester that are designed to promote diversity and inclusiveness in graduate education – and give graduate students the opportunity to network with other graduate students from diverse backgrounds and disciplines. At the Crosstalks, students have the opportunity to discuss topics related to graduate education – or any other topic of interest to them. For additional information, please contact Dr. David Shafer, Assistant Dean. Directors of Graduate Programs are invited to submit nominations for supplemental Graduate School Diversity Enhancement Recruiting Fellowships to increase the amount funds offered to incoming graduate students. For current graduate students, we also offer Diversity Enhancement Grants, which provide supplemental fellowships up to $4,000, depending on financial need. The SREB Doctoral Scholars Program expands NC State’s efforts to fully tap this nation’s human talent pool by creating a better pathway to the Ph.D. for students from underrepresented groups in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Through this program, NC State offers fellowships and professional development opportunities to doctoral students who ultimately will increase diversity in the professoriate. The Witherspoon Graduate Fellowship is awarded to second year graduate students who have demonstrated experience in or a commitment to supporting Black communities within and beyond NC State’s campus. The Graduate School sends a representative to a number of diversity-focused recruitment fairs and conferences annually. The Graduate School Home 1020 Main Campus Drive Room 2300A Raleigh, NC 27695-7102 919.515.2872 Campus Map Accessibility Apply Ask Us Contact Us Give Now People Privacy Professional Development Programs MyPack Portal News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.