Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Graduate School of Medical Sciences Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options News Seminars Student Research Thesis Defenses Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Vincent du Vigneaud Annual Research Symposium Newsletter Annual AwardsToggle Annual Awards menu options Alumni Award of Distinction Excellence in Teaching and Mentoring Award Julian R. Rachele Prize Student Service Award Vincent du Vigneaud Symposium Awards WCM Graduate Student Fellowships AdmissionsToggle Admissions menu options Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers AcademicsToggle Academics menu options PhD ProgramsToggle PhD Programs menu options BCMB Allied ProgramToggle BCMB Allied Program menu options Biochemistry & Structural Biology Cell & Developmental Biology Molecular Biology Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems BiologyToggle Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology menu options PBSB Program at Houston Methodist Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Master's ProgramsToggle Master's Programs menu options Health Sciences for Physician AssistantsToggle Health Sciences for Physician Assistants menu options PA Program Certificate Ceremony-Class of 2021 PA Program Matriculation Ceremony Clinical & Translational Investigation Clinical Epidemiology Population Health SciencesToggle Population Health Sciences menu options Biostatistics and Data Science Health Informatics Health Policy and Economics Computational Biology Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Biomedical Imaging Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate ResearchToggle Summer Undergraduate Research menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Engineering Summer Program Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student ExperienceToggle Student Experience menu options Student FormsToggle Student Forms menu options Alumni Contact Information Form Student ServicesToggle Student Services menu options Office of the Registrar Housing Student Government (GSEC) Diversity and InclusionToggle Diversity and Inclusion menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Esprit de Corps Student Clubs and InitiativesToggle Student Clubs and Initiatives menu options Badminton Club (GSEC) Biotech Club Early STEM Outreach Club Hockey Team (GSEC) Science & Education Policy Association (SEPA) Soccer Club (GSEC) Softball Club (GSEC) The Science Communication Club (GSEC) Tri-I Outreach Club (TORC) Volleyball Club (GSEC) WCMC Book Club (GSEC) Yoga Club Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing ResourcesToggle Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources menu options Fellowship Opportunities Meet our fellows Weill Cornell Graduate School Fellowship Award Policies Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Admissions Academics Student Experience Faculty Our Trainees Home Academics Master's Programs PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Clinical Epidemiology Health Sciences for Physician Assistants Clinical & Translational Investigation Clinical Epidemiology Population Health Sciences Computational Biology Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Biomedical Imaging Clinical Epidemiology & Health Services Research Overview The Master of Science Program in Clinical Epidemiology & Health Services Research program is designed for those who wish to plan, implement and analyze quantitative and qualitative research studies using appropriate research designs. The core of the curriculum includes research methodology, biostatistical techniques, data management, decision analysis, health economics and program evaluation. Graduates of the program are prepared to pursue academic careers in a variety of settings where data is required to answer complex questions. The emphasis is on training clinician researchers to teach research methods, conduct methodologically rigorous and scientifically sound studies, evaluate programs and perform cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit studies in a variety of populations. The goal of the Global Health Track within the program is to train a cadre of health care leaders who will direct clinical and public health programs in developing countries, conduct research to improve health of the resource-poor and teach the next generation of health care workers in developing countries. Physicians from resource-poor countries and other experienced health professionals can attend didactic training in New York during intensive blocks, and then return to their home countries in the interim periods to conduct mentored thesis research and continue their clinical and teaching responsibilities. Currently, there are students enrolled from Tanzania, Haiti and Brazil. Click for more information about the Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluative Sciences Research program. Overview of Courses SUMMER INTENSIVE COURSES Behavioral Science and Health Education Theory Communicating Research Results Decision Analysis Foundations of Health Services Research Fundamentals of Clinical Epidemiology and Research Methodology Introduction to Biostatistics Measuring Psychosocial and Clinical Constructs Practical Applications and Computer Lab Qualitative Research Methods FALL COURSES Advanced Seminar in Health Services Research Biostatistical Data Analysis I Community-Based Participatory Research Health Care in the U.S.: Policy and Politics Improving Quality and Safety Information Skills Public Datasets for Health Services Research Research Ethics Responsible Conduct of Research Thesis Preparation SPRING COURSES Advanced Health Survey Design Biostatistical Data Analysis II Changing Health Policy Cluster Randomized Trials Economic Evaluation in Health Care Grant Writing Introduction to Hierarchical Models Multicultural Approaches to Community Health and Disease Prevention Structural Equation Modeling Teaching How to Teach MULTIDISCIPLINARY CONFERENCES AND COLLOQUIA David Rogers Health Policy Colloquium The objective of this seminar is to provide broad exposure to the cultural, social, political and economic issues shaping health policy. Weekly sessions with ample time for discussion are held with speakers from local, state and national government, private industry and foundation executives, health policy think-tank analysts, academics, and consumer and community interest groups. Health Disparities: Challenges and Opportunities This conference, organized by Dr. Boutin-Foster and Dr. Carlyle Miller, the Associate Dean for Student Affairs and Equal Opportunity Programs, will draw a distinguished group of visiting professors to share their research and policy initiatives. Health Services Research Journal Club This weekly journal club is led by students and focuses on improving quality of care, improving safety and reducing medical errors. Each week the students lead a discussion on recent literature on methods to improve safety and quality, including approaches to patient centered care. The sessions will provide the chance to review and debate results in recent literature. Research Methodology Conference The objective of this conference is to focus on challenges in research methodology and to address issues that have arisen in the design and conduct of studies. The conference operates as a "think tank" on issues, and includes a full meeting of an interdisciplinary group consisting of clinical epidemiologists, biostatisticians, behavioral scientists, health services researchers, medical informatics experts and cooperating investigators. The group meets on a bi-weekly basis. This conference has been approved for Continuing Medical Education accreditation. Weill Cornell Ethics Course This course is required for all MS students at Weill Cornell and is Internet based. The objective of this course is to convey the critical issues in the ethical conduct of research. It focuses on informed consent, preserving confidentiality, data management, misconduct, human subjects and animal subjects. Students are introduced to basic issues in credit and responsibility in science including criteria for authorship, conflict of interest, accountability of authors and reviewers, and data integrity. Program Requirements Students entering the program must have an MD degree, RN certificate or a graduate degree in a clinical health related field with three years of work experience. Typically, physicians will have completed residency programs and nurses will have had several years of work experience prior to enrollment. Faculty Alexopoulos, George Boutin-Foster, Carla Carrillo, Juan Charlson, Mary Fein, Oliver Fitzgerald, Daniel Gaudino, Mario Glesby, Marshall Hollenberg, James Horwitz, Ralph Ibrahim, Said Johnson, Warren Karim, Salim S. Kingham, T. Peter Lambert, William Lee, Myung-Hee Mancuso, Carol Mandl, Lisa Phillips, Erica Pollak, JP Robbins, Laura Safford, Monika Schoenthaler, Antoinette Shapiro, Martin Sparer, Michael Taheri, Shahrad Tobin, Jonathan Wells, Martin Yeo, Heather Leadership Mary E. Charlson, M.D Courses Advanced Health Survey Design Advanced Seminar in Health Services Research Behavioral Science and Health Education Theory Biostatistical Data Analysis I Biostatistical Data Analysis II Changing Health Policy Cluster Randomized Trials Communicating Research Results Community-Based Participatory Research Decision Analysis Economic Evaluation in Health Care Foundations of Health Services Research Fundamentals of Clinical Epidemiology and Research Methodology Grant Writing Health Care in the U.S.: Policy and Politics Improving Quality and Safety Information Skills Introduction to Biostatistics Introduction to Hierarchical Models Measuring Psychosocial and Clinical Constructs Multicultural Approaches to Community Health and Disease Prevention Practical Applications and Computer Lab Public Datasets for Health Services Research Qualitative Research Methods Research Ethics Responsible Conduct of Research Structural Equation Modeling Teaching How to Teach Thesis Preparation Clinical Research Training: Alumni Testimonials Kristine Olson, MD Yale University School of Medicine Clinical Medicine “The exemplary career and leadership provided by the distinguished Dr. Mary Charlson attracts the most talented faculty and collaborations from around the region and world.” Kenneth Boockvar, MD, MS Mount Sinai School of Medicine Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine “Among the research training experiences that I have had, my fellowship with Dr. Charlson and colleagues had the greatest impact on my career. As a result, I return every year as an instructor in the curriculum, focusing on quality improvement techniques.” Carrie Thompson, MD Mayo Clinic Hematology & Internal Medicine “While a fellow at Cornell, I found the program to be outstanding. The coursework, particularly the intensive summer program in research methodology, qualitative research, health services research, statistics, and health economics, were of top-notch quality. I received high level mentorship and support from the program faculty in developing an independent research project measuring long-term outcomes in lymphoma survivors during my fellowship training.” Lisa Moreno, MD Pediatrics Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons “I can personally attest that the skills and resources obtained from this program have served as a huge stepping stone in my pursuit of research.” “Under the leadership and direction of Dr. Mary Charlson this program has flourished and serves as a great model for other institutions to follow and replicate. Dr. Charlson’s personal and professional involvement serves as a tremendous asset to the program.” Jennifer A. Downs, MD, MS Weill Cornell Medicine Center for Global Health “One of the most valuable courses was a weekly Friday seminar in which fellows were required to present their research progress every 4-6 weeks. The course spanned the entire research process, from hypothesis generation through study design and implementation through troubleshooting and, finally, analysis and presentation…This innovative course design also offers students the opportunity to learn through observing the progress and difficulties presented weekly by their colleagues.” Kouta Ito, MD, MS Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Harvard Medical School Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics “This fellowship program provided me with skills necessary to conduct methodologically rigorous health services research. Particularly, mentorship by multidisciplinary faculty with a broad range of expertise enabled me to seek solutions to pressing health care problems through a diverse lens.” “I am confident that this unique program will continue fostering the next generation of independent researchers to investigate the growing national priorities in health services research.” APPLY For more information: Send email to hjohnson6@northwell.edu: and rra2004@med.cornell.edu CONTACT INFORMATION Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluative Sciences Research Mary E. Charlson, MD, Director 1300 York Avenue, Box #46 New York, NY 10065 Tel: (646) 962-5050 Fax: (646) 962-0620 rra2004@med.cornell.edu Jump To Top Our Location Graduate School of Medical Sciences Contact Us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 About Us WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and Events Newsletter Annual Awards Admissions Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers Academics PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student Experience Student Forms Student Services Diversity and Inclusion Student Clubs and Initiatives Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance