Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Graduate Student Affairs Team Our Community Residential Life Graduate College Lakeside Apartments Lawrence Apartments Community Associates Student Organizations Graduate Student Government Student Conduct Advocacy Events and Programs Support Resources Residential Life gcexterior.jpg Approximately 70 percent of enrolled graduate students live in campus housing and are a part of our residential life community. The Graduate Student Affairs team and Community Associates seek to enhance the residential experience by helping to foster a sense of community through a variety programs and activities. The office works closely with the Lakeside, Graduate College House and Lawrence Committees to provide programs and create opportunities for graduate interaction across disciplines. The office also offers assistance with residential and apartment life matters and exceptions to graduate housing and Campus Dining policies. The Graduate Housing Office provides detailed information on entering the housing system, apartment life for graduate students, the graduate college, floor plans, move in information, room draw information and much more. Students are urged to explore the Graduate Housing website and contact the graduate housing staff with any questions. Housing Commitment Princeton makes every effort to make an offer of University housing to all incoming graduate students whose applications for University housing meet the announced deadline. After all eligible first-year students have been housed, priority decreases with year of study. Most students can expect to be housed for three years. Enrolled students who need to remain in University housing for special personal or financial reasons may receive priority over other returning students if they apply for hardship housing. Information can be found in the housing room draw guide. Additional information is given in the on the Graduate Housing and Cost of Living website. Resources Graduate College House Committee Lawrence Committee Lakeside Committee Graduate Housing Office Housing Master Plan Graduate Student Affairs Team Our Community Residential Life Graduate College Lakeside Apartments Lawrence Apartments Community Associates Student Organizations Graduate Student Government Student Conduct Advocacy Events and Programs Support Resources Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University