Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Alumni Faculty Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Back to Top Nav Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Back to Top Nav Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Back to Top Nav Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Back to Top Nav Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Back to Top Nav Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Graduate Registrar Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Share Special Interdisciplinary Programs Special Interdisciplinary Programs Medical Physics MD/MS Program in Biomedical Engineering PhD Engineering Innovation Program MD/PhD Program at Dartmouth PhD/MBA Program Tuck PhD/MBA The PhD/MBA joint degree program offers the unique opportunity for PhD students at Dartmouth College to finish off their training with management education. The joint degree aims to produce individuals who are not only thoroughly trained in a scientific discipline but also possess fundamental business and entrepreneurial skills. The program is currently only available to PhD students at Dartmouth. Students must apply to and be admitted to the MBA program. The PhD experience will be counted as post-bachelors degree work experience. Matriculating students must enter with the regular Tuck class in the fall and complete the required first-year Tuck core curriculum. Students are expected to participate in an internship during the summer between their first and second Tuck years, to reinforce the MBA experience. Courses taken during the PhD program will be counted as the equivalent of one term's worth of electives. While application and admission to the MBA program can occur at any point while enrolled in the PhD program, it's recommended that students apply in the third or fourth year of their program. Students are encouraged to meet with advisors for the PhD/MBA Program, Prof and Sr. Associate Dean for Teaching and Learning Joseph Hall, or Kerry Landers, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs at the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. It is important that PhD students show strong academic ability as well as demonstrated potential for leadership, and they should be able to articulate well why the MBA degree will help them achieve their goals. Ph.D./MBA Frequently Asked Questions WHO CAN APPLY TO THIS PROGRAM? Currently enrolled Dartmouth Ph.D. graduate students. Graduate alumni must apply through Tuck's regular admissions process and will not be eligible for the accelerated program which includes using 4 previously taken classes in lieu of 1 term of distributives. HOW MUCH WILL IT COST ME TO APPLY? Tuck has agreed to waive the application fee for Dartmouth Ph.D. graduate students applying to this program. Prior to applying on-line, please contact Gary Hutchins in the Guarini School to arrange a free waiver with the Tuck Admissions Office. DO I NEED TO TAKE THE GMAT®? No, if you have taken the GRE's within the past five years, you may submit your GRE scores. Otherwise you should plan on taking the GMAT and submitting those scores. ARE MY GRE SCORES STILL VALID FOR THIS APPLICATION? The ETS testing service considers GRE scores to be valid for 5 years from the time of testing. Your scores will be used as long as this time limit has not been passed. If it is beyond the 5 year limit, you should plan to take the GRE or GMAT exam to complete your application. WHEN SHOULD I APPLY? Ph.D. graduate students can apply any time, however this is an extremely competitive process and we suggest you take the time necessary to demonstrate an interest and competence in business by learning about the MBA in general; engaging in the Tuck environment, through for instance attending conferences and events; talking to Tuck students; participating in Tuck organizations; and auditing certain classes. There are several application dates for Tuck, as listed on their website, please refer to these online. Here is a list of possible activities: Participation in Dartmouth Entrepreneurial Network Workshops Attend conferences such as Business and Society Conference; Women in Business; Greener Ventures; Thayer business/technology conferences Taking classes in applied technology and entrepreneurship Interaction with companies through your research Engagement with Tuck student clubs where you might add value (e.g., health care, technology) WHEN SHOULD I PLAN TO START THE TUCK PROGRAM? Ph.D. graduate students must have completed all requirements for the Ph.D., including having handed in their signed thesis, prior to starting in the fall quarter. Students who have not completed all requirements must request to defer entrance until the following fall, or will be withdrawn from the program. HOW WILL I PAY FOR THIS PROGRAM? Ph.D. graduate students must apply for financial aid through the Tuck Financial Aid Office. Merit based scholarships are available. DOES MY ADVISOR NEED TO KNOW I WILL BE APPLYING? We encourage graduate students to discuss their interest in the program with their advisors. It is very important to be realistic about the timeline and entrance requirements so that there are no misunderstandings about your potential completion date of the Ph.D.. As such, it is important to have an open understanding with your advisor about your interest in the program. TUCK REQUIRES TWO RECOMMENDATIONS. WHO SHOULD I ASK TO WRITE ME A RECOMMENDATION? Tuck suggests that you have your advisor and if possible someone outside your academic work to demonstrate your ability to handle multiple commitments while in graduate school. Main menu Dartmouth College Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Alumni Graduate Alumni Research Award Stay Connected Tell Us Your Story Faculty Required Syllabi Language Mentoring Resources Ribbon Footer View policies relating to graduate courses. Courses View all the GRAD policies in one place. Policies View the Academic Honor Code and other related regulations. Academic Conduct Regulations Close Contact Guarini Admissions. Find out more about applying to the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. APPLY Find out more about tuition and living costs. Tuition & Living Costs Find out more about funding available through fellowships, grants, and awards. Funding Close People Admissions Guarini.Graduate.Admissions@Dartmouth.edu General Guarini.Graduate.School@dartmouth.edu Current Students & Postdocs Please Complete Our Contact Form Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies 64 College Street Anonymous Hall Suite 102 Hanover New Hampshire 03755-3563Come Find Us! Phone: 603-646-2106 Fax: 603-646-8762 HB: HB 6062 Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Close Policies Apply Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback