Skip to content Toggle Menu Student Resources Staff Resources GSI/GSR Resources News & Events Apply Now Toggle Search Search About About The Graduate Division serves more than 13,000 students in over 100 graduate degree programs. We are here to help you from the time you are admitted until you complete your graduate program. About the Graduate Division Contact the Graduate Division Welcome from the Vice Provost and Dean Grad Data Graduate Publications and Reports Berkeley Graduate Student Profile Listening Tour Town Halls Diversity Initiatives Graduate Diversity Task Force Recommendations Anti-Racism Initiatives Land Acknowledgement Admissions Admissions We're thrilled you're considering Berkeley for your graduate study. We offer more than 100 programs for master's, professional, and doctoral students to pursue their dreams. Steps to Apply Apply for Admission Admissions Requirements Tuition Costs & Fees Admissions FAQ Accepting Your Offer Choosing Your Program Graduate Programs & Deadlines Concurrent Programs Why Choose Berkeley? Berkeley Graduate Student Profile Financial Support Financial Support Working toward obtaining your graduate degree at Berkeley is an exciting and challenging endeavor, but funding your graduate education shouldn’t be your greatest challenge. Funding Your Graduate Education Financial Support FAQ About Multi-Year Funding Options for Financial Support Financial Aid Fellowships Support for Student Parents & Caregivers Academic Employment Appointment Handbook Open GSI / GSR Positions Fee Remissions Academics Academics We're here to support you as you progress through your degree, and help you understand the policies and procedures that inform your graduate education. Degree Progress Master’s Degree Progress Doctoral Degree Progress Deadlines Academic Progress Advisors Forms & Applications Policies and Procedures Guide to Graduate Policy Policy and Procedure Memos Graduate Degree, Certificate, or Designated Emphasis Proposals Student Accommodations COVID-19 Information for Graduate Students Graduate Program Assessments & Outcomes Program Options Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programs Exchange Programs with Other Universities Professional Development Professional Development GradPro, the Graduate Writing Center, and the GSI Teaching & Resource Center can support you in your academic and professional development at all stages of your degree program and in preparing for your career. GradPro (Professional and Career Development) Graduate Writing Center GSI Teaching & Resource Center Professional Development Guide Writing and Communication Teaching and Mentoring Research and Data Analysis Leadership and Management Career Exploration and Preparation Connect with us Workshops & Other Events Berkeley Grad Slam Competition Campus Partners Diversity Diversity The Office for Graduate Diversity provides support and services for prospective and continuing students in an effort to support and sustain a more diverse graduate student community. Prospective Students Berkeley Undergraduates Current Grad Students Funding Birgeneau Perelman Fund for Undocumented Students Dean’s Graduate Diversity Innovation Fund The Future of Higher Education Postdoctoral Fellowship Program Initiatives Contact OGD Campus Diversity Professionals Connect with a Diversity & Community Fellow Giving Giving Your gift allows us to deliver an inclusive, world-class experience to graduate students, so they can make a difference at Berkeley and beyond. Giving Opportunities Graduate Fellowship & Support Fund Graduate Student Experience Fund Graduate Diversity Support Fund Why Give Donor Profiles Student Profiles Ways to Give Planned Gifts Contact Us Give Now Student Resources Staff Resources GSI/GSR Resources News & Events Graduate Division on Facebook Graduate Division on Twitter Graduate Division on LinkedIn Graduate Division on Instagram Celebrating Graduate Students Congratulations from all of us in GradDiv! In honor of another amazing year, we've pulled together a summary of stories celebrating graduate students. Read more Our ProgramsBrowse our program list and find your match! With more than 120 graduate programs representing the breadth and depth of UC Berkeley’s interdisciplinary scholarship, there’s a program that’s right for you. Explore Programs Current Students We're here to help you locate campus resources and get you the help you need. Browse our resource list or set up an appointment for one-on-one assistance. Locate Resources Our StudentsBrilliant graduate students are a critical part of Berkeley’s identity. In this video, see how Chancellor’s Fellow Kendall Calhoun Ph.D. ’23 connects with faculty and undergraduates, conducting field research with the goal of creating more resilient habitats and ecosystems. Like many outstanding Berkeley graduate students, his work helps to drive research excellence and inspires undergraduates, opening their minds to greater possibilities. See Kendall Calhoun in action Professional DevelopmentWe've helped countless graduate and professional students prepare for careers they never considered Career preparation only starts in the classroom. We’re here to help you explore career paths and purse the profession that matches your interests and strength. Explore our workshops, or set up a one-on-one consultation today. Graduate Professional Development News & Upcoming Events Show Me: News Events Deadlines News Events Deadlines News You have made this an amazing year May 17, 2022 You did it! Another academic year has come to a close and, as I have said many times in past messages, I and all of us in the Graduate Division applaud your resilience and enthusiastic spirit! As the world around us struggles with so many crises – 2022 Mentoring Awards May 16, 2022 Mentorship can have a transformative effect on the academic success, well-being, and overall experience of our graduate students. The following award recipients have demonstrated excellence in their commitment to helping UC Berkeley undergraduate and graduate students succeed academically, professionally, and personally. Recipients of the Carol D. Soc Distinguished Graduate Student Mentoring Award, Graduate Assembly’s Faculty Mentor… Essential Summer Reading for Graduate Students May 13, 2022 For many graduate students, the summer months are an important time for self-directed reading and other tasks that have taken a backseat over the fall and spring semesters. Regardless of your stage in your graduate program, consider adding one or two books to your summer reading list this year that will help advance your professional development goals. Leadership in Diversity: Honoring graduating students May 13, 2022 Meet our inaugural Leadership in Graduate Diversity Award recipients… Operation Lollipop May 12, 2022 As the academic year comes to a close, thesis and dissertation filings start flowing in and our staff begins mailing the infamous See’s Candy Lollipops all over the world. Read more News Events There is no content to display. Read more Events Deadlines File Thesis or Dissertation (Summer 2022 Deadline) August 12, 2022 This is the deadline for students seeking a summer degree. We recommend that your faculty committee review your thesis 30-60 days prior to your anticipated filing date. If you are using co-authored or previously published material, you will need to request permission at least 3 weeks in advance of filing. For instructions on how to… Read more Deadlines Our Commitment to Diversity The Graduate Division is committed to expanding the diversity of Berkeley’s student body, and supporting students from all backgrounds, especially those from underrepresented groups, in their academic, personal and professional journeys. We’re here to help you build community and make our campus your new home. Office for Graduate Diversity Graduate Division Contact the Graduate Division Workshops and Events Graduate Publications Organizational Chart 2022 (PDF) Our Sites GSI Teaching & Resource Center Berkeley Graduate Lectures Tanner Lectures Back-Up Child Care Graduate Mentoring Awards SMART Mentoring Grad Dashboard (for Faculty & Staff) Our Mission The Graduate Division oversees graduate admissions, fellowships, grants, academic employment, preparation for teaching, mentoring activities, professional development, academic progress and degree milestones. Can’t find something? Give Feedback Learn more about the Campaign for Berkeley and Graduate Fellowships. Support Graduate Division Graduate Division on Facebook Graduate Division on Twitter Graduate Division on LinkedIn Graduate Division on Instagram Privacy Nondiscrimination Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents Keep on top of important Covid-19 updates for graduate students. — Learn more