Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Diversity & Inclusion Signature Initiatives Summer Success Symposium Summer Success Symposium The Summer Success Symposium is a professional and community development event for new and continuing doctoral students from across all graduate fields. The symposium has a particular focus on bringing together recipients of graduate fellowships in support of diversity as well as all other doctoral students from backgrounds historically excluded from and underrepresented in the academy. This includes, but is not limited to students who identify as Black, Indigenous, Hispanic/Latina/o/x, and/or Southeast Asian, and/or those that identify as first-generation college (FGC) students, LGBTQQ+ identified students, veterans, students with disabilities, women in STEM, students with DACA status, and others. Master’s degree students interested in pursuing doctoral studies are also welcome to this event. Through this symposium, participants have the opportunity to form connections and establish community. This symposium also provides participants with the opportunity to engage with successful alumni, faculty, and professionals with shared experiences and identities. Summer Success Symposium keynote and workshop content focus on providing participants with access to knowledge and insights that will help them navigate their successful transition into and progression through their graduate studies. Save the Date: 2022 Summer Success Symposium August 17, 2022 | 9:00am-3:30pm (ET) | In-Person 2021 Summer Success Symposium August 17, 18 & 19 , 2021 | 12:30-2:00pm (ET) | Zoom Tuesday, August 17 | 12:30-2:00 pm ET Opening Plenary Session: I CAN: Integrating Community, Agency, and Navigation in Graduate School Often success in graduate school is defined by the institutional metrics as opposed to graduate student experiences. This session will explore integrating graduate student agency and the co-construction of community, toward the successful navigation of graduate school. Potential topics include maintaining work-life balance, cultural integrity, investing in yourself, motivations, committee dynamics, and mentorship, among others. Attendees may be asked to reflect on their own experiences and potentially share them with others. Access an edited recording of Dr. Windchief’s talk. Access an article about Dr. Windchief’s talk. Speaker: Dr. Sweeney Windchief (Assiniboine), Associate Professor, Department of Education, Montana State University About Dr. Sweeney Windchief Dr. Sweeney Windchief, a member of the Fort Peck Tribes (Assiniboine) in Montana, serves as an associate professor of Adult and Higher Education at Montana State University. His research interests include higher education specifically under the umbrella of Indigenous intellectualism as well as academic mentoring. His teaching privileges include critical race theory, Indigenous methodologies in research, law and policy in higher education, and institutional research. Dr. Windchief serves as the Primary Investigator for the NSF Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate – Transformation (AGEP-T) Pacific Northwest Alliance: Circles of Success-Mentoring Opportunities in STEM (PNW-COSMOS) and the Sloan Indigenous Graduate Partnership grants, and as a co-PI on the “Using Storytelling to Improve Pathways for Rural and American Indian Students Entering Computer Science under NSF HRD grant # 1657553; all of which serve Indigenous peoples. He is a third-generation college student holding a Bachelor of Science in Liberal Arts and Sciences from the University of Central Oklahoma, a Master of Counselor Education from the University of Montana, and a Doctorate of Education in Educational Leadership and Policy from the University of Utah. Dr. Windchief and his wife Sara have two sons who help keep things in perspective. Wednesday, August 18 | 12:30-2:00 pm ET Alumni Keynote Session Graduate school can be an opportunity to grow and expand as a person, but for folks of marginalized backgrounds, the experience may cause us to narrow who we are, and what we are allowed to be. What does it look like to notice what is happening to you, right in the moment of challenge, distress, and dissatisfaction, and seek resources for change? How does it feel to choose rigorous self-care, even when you are made to feel like this is wrong, and makes you less of a scholar? How can we notice the patterns that keep us, and our communities, smaller than we ought to be? Based on my experience during my Ph.D. program and my early, non-traditional academic career, I will explore how these questions are allowing me to shape my scholarship, activism, and interior life. Access an edited recording of Dr. Pierre’s talk. Speaker: Dr. Suzanne Pierre, Ph.D.‘18, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Founder and Director of the Critical Ecology Lab, 2021 Osher Fellow at The California Academy of Sciences, and Visiting Researcher at the University of California, Berkeley About Dr. Suzanne Pierre Dr. Suzanne Pierre earned her Ph.D. Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Cornell University where she was a Cornell Sloan Scholar and Bouchet Scholar. Her current research focuses on global environmental change. She is passionate about how climate, physiology, and plant-microbe interactions set the stage for elemental cycling on Earth. She uses an interdisciplinary suite of tools from microbial ecology, stable isotope mass spectrometry, and plant ecophysiology, and more, to address these questions. Dr. Pierre is the lead investigator of the Critical Ecology Lab, a nonprofit, interdisciplinary research collaborative leading conceptual and methodological shifts away from ahistoric and asocial approaches to studying the natural environment. Through a field-building merger of natural sciences (ecology, biogeochemistry, archaeology, etc), critical environmental theory, decolonial studies, political ecology, Black feminism, ethnic studies, and more, the Critical Ecology Lab builds bridges between researchers in these disciplines to investigate the ways social and economic oppression have and continue to shape climate and environmental change. She also writes and speaks about the intersection of these issues, which boil down to the question: how do human-derived environmental conditions and concepts shape unequal societies, or potentiate justice? Dr. Pierre was awarded a 2021 Osher Fellowship from the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco, CA. There she joins other “thinkers in residence” working in collaboration with the Academy’s scientists, educators, and science communicators to contribute her expertise and perspectives to environmental research initiatives at the Academy. During her residence, she will be developing theory and practice in the Critical Ecology Lab and working on a science-driven book. Thursday, August 19 | 12:30-2:00 pm ET Mastering Your Transition Into & Progression Through Graduate School During this panel discussion with current doctoral students from across the disciplines, panelists candidly discussed their experiences and strategies for making a successful transition into graduate school. They also shared insights on their experiences navigating their ongoing progression through their graduate studies, and their exploration and preparation for various postgraduate career pathways. Panelists: Joshua Garcia, Ph.D. Candidate, Horticulture (Moderator) Josh Garcia is a fifth-year Ph.D. candidate in Horticulture at Cornell from Phoenix, Arizona. His research explores the influence plant microbiomes can have on crop traits and how they may be leveraged in developing sustainable agricultural management practices. Outside of the lab, Josh is involved with several organizations on and off campus, including the Center for Teaching Innovation, the Latinx Graduate Student Coalition, and No Mas Lagrimas. As a queer Mexican American first-generation college student, Josh strives to make academic spaces more inclusive for people from marginalized communities and challenge what it means to be an academic. In the future, he hopes to teach at a small public college and continue his community involvement. Gustavo Alvarez Escalante, Ph.D. Student, Mechanical Engineering Gustavo Alvarez Escalante is a second year Ph.D. student in the mechanical and aerospace engineering program working in the Nana Heat Energy ZT Group and is blessed to have been awarded the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship, the Deans McNair Fellowship, and the Cornell GEM Associate Fellowship (all in all full funding for five years). Before coming to Cornell he worked in a Global Power Engineering Company called Eaton for three years as a design engineer for Uninterruptible Power Supplies and Switchgear. Loves hiking and jumping off of cliffs. Huge fan of Thai Basil near Ithaca Commons and highly recommends Ithaca Beer Company (great outdoor seating and nice ambiance). Taylor Brown, Ph.D. Student, Natural Resources Taylor Brown is a Ph.D. student in the field of natural resources and is affiliated with the New York Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit and the Cornell Biological Field Station at Shackelton Point. Her graduate research at Cornell focuses on the ecology, early life-history, and spatial population dynamics of native prey fishes in the Great Lakes in order to inform fisheries management and restoration. Taylor began her graduate studies as an M.Sc./Ph.D. student in 2018, completing her M.S.c. at Cornell in December 2020, after earning her B.S. in evolution and ecology from The Ohio State University and her A.S. from Northwest State Community College. Aside from her research, she is a co-founder and active member of FiGLI, the Cornell First Generation and Low-Income Graduate Student Organization. Elissa “E” Domingo Badique, Ph.D. Student, Performing and Media Arts Elissa Domingo Badiqué (they/she) hails from Northern California and is currently a third year Ph.D. student in performing and media arts. They are a Dean’s Scholar, a FLAS Fellow studying Tagalog, a graduate student co-chair at the Southeast Asia Program, and an officer at the Society for Asian American Graduate Affairs. They enjoy pop culture and are passionate about incorporating it into their research on race and performance. They are particularly interested in researching embodiments of race and gender as they relate to fandom and performance on new media platforms such as TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram. Currently, they’re focused on contemporary racial masquerade through popular dance and the phenomena popularly known as “Blackfishing” and “Asianfishing.” Breanna Green, Ph.D. Student, Information Science Breanna Green is a second year Ph.D. student in the field of information science. Her research interests span the ways in which extremist identities and ideologies are built and maintained online through various social media platforms. Before arriving to Cornell, Breanna earned both her B.S. and M.S. in psychology from Prairie View A&M University and the University of Texas at San Antonio, respectively. She also spent time working as a Research Analyst in the Institutional Research department of a large community college in Texas. Her primary advisor is Drew Margolin. Hui-Yuan “Neo” Neo, Ph.D. Student, Government Hui-Yuan Neo is a third year Ph.D. student in the field of government at Cornell. She studies authoritarian politics and political economy with a regional focus in Southeast Asia. She graduated with a B.A. (high honors) from the University of Michigan and has conducted fieldwork in Singapore and Indonesia and has plans to conduct them in Malaysia. Her research has been supported by the American Political Science Association and the Einaudi Center. An immigrant from Singapore, she is committed to advancing the rights of immigrants, Asians, and Asian Americans on campus and in the United States. She is involved with the Society for Asian American Graduate Affairs on campus. Event Sponsors Graduate School Office of Inclusion & Student Engagement, Diversity Programs in Engineering, Future Faculty and Academic Careers, and the Cornell Chapter of the Bouchet Graduate Honor Society This event is also supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No.1647094 (AGEP CIRTL) and a subcontract under Grant No. 1231286 (Cornell AGEP). Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. This program was modeled in part after PROMISE: Maryland’s AGEP Summer Success Institute. Previous Summer Success Symposium View 2020 Summer Success Symposium Description and Presenters Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022