Graduate Admissions Why Penn Engineering? Ph.D. Ph.D. Open House Master’s Admissions How to Apply International Students Admissions Contacts Additional Information Program Options Paying for Your Education Connect With Us Life at Penn FAQ Penn Engineering Online Learning Make a Gift Search Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Make a Gift Search Graduate Admissions Why Penn Engineering? Ph.D. Ph.D. Open House Master’s Admissions How to Apply International Students Admissions Contacts Additional Information Program Options Paying for Your Education Connect With Us Life at Penn FAQ Penn Engineering Online Learning Student News Congratulations to the Penn Engineering Graduates of 2022! 05.19.2022 | Read More Penn Engineering Researchers Use Cascading Dominoes to Mimic Soliton Waves 05.09.2022 | Read More Penn Engineering Commencement 2022 05.03.2022 | Read More Events BE Doctoral Dissertation Defense: “Application of Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy to Examine the Neurophysiology of the Injured Adolescent Brain” (Divya Jain) Event Details PSOC@Penn Talk: “Lectin-glycan affinity in nanobio theragnostics: The specific capture of pancreatic cancer exosomes and the targeted therapy of tumor cells” (Jonghoon Choi) Event Details BE Doctoral Dissertation Defense: “Experimental and computational analyses of locomotor rhythm generation and modulation in Caenorhabditis elegans” (Hongfei Ji) Event Details View More Announcements Applications for the Fall 2021 Academic Term are now closed. The applications for on-campus graduate programs will open again in September. You can fill out our Inquiry Form to receive additional information about our programs. SEAS Graduate Programs Inquiry Form COVID-19 Admissions Update Recognizing the challenges of teaching, learning, and assessing academic performance during the global COVID-19 pandemic, Penn’s admissions committees for graduate and professional programs will take the significant disruptions of the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020 into account when reviewing students’ transcripts and other admissions materials as part of their regular practice of performing individualized, holistic reviews of each applicant. In particular, as we review applications now and in the future, we will respect decisions regarding the adoption of Pass/Fail and other grading options during the period of COVID-19 disruptions. An applicant will not be adversely affected in the admissions process if their academic institution implemented a mandatory pass/fail (or similar) system for the term or if the applicant chose to participate in an optional pass/fail (or similar) system for the term. Penn’s longstanding commitment remains to admit graduate and professional student cohorts composed of outstanding individuals who demonstrate the resilience and aptitude to succeed in their academic pursuits. SEAS Graduate Programs Application Statement on Arrest for Civil Disobedience We pledge that an arrest record that occurred due to Black Lives Matter protest related civil disobedience will not adversely affect graduate admissions into our program. SEAS Graduate Programs Application Consider our Online Master's Programs! Applications for Spring 2023 for MCIT Online and MSE-DS Online open on June 1. Early deadline is August 1, 2022 | Regular deadline is October 1, 2022 Learn More Why Penn Engineering? Research and education form the creative graduate mission of Penn Engineering. Two key elements distinguish the Penn Engineering experience from that provided by many other institutions: Exceptional academic programs, and practical design and research experience. The excitement and discovery of research is open to all students and is the keystone of our world-renowned programs. Learn More Quick Actions Find a Person Find a building Visit Penn Engineering Report computing issues (CETS) Report facilities issues (EOS) Student health and safety concerns Contact Penn Public Safety (DPS) PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 | UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA | SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE 220 South 33rd Street | 107 Towne Building | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 | 215-898-7246 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help PENN ENGINEERING ©2017 UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCE 220 South 33rd Street | 107 Towne Building | Philadelphia, PA 19104-6391 | 215-898-7246 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs | For website issues, email the webmaster Report accessibility issues and get help