Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Tuition and Costs Stipend Rates Funding Sources Education Loans and Work Study Graduate Student Hourly Employment Definitions Policies Financial Wellness Fellow Program Tiger Cents Chronicles Costs and Funding group1.jpg Welcome to the Graduate School's Costs and Funding webpages. Whether you are a prospective student researching graduate opportunities available at Princeton University, or a current student reviewing the resources available to fund graduate education, this site will provide you with information and direction. Important resources for current students can be found in My Financials, a centralized home for student financial information, accessed online by logging into TigerHub, navigating to the Student Financial Center tile, and selecting My Financials. My Financials offers students: A unified framework with detailed information on their University support as well as charges and credits to their Student Account Direct access to assistance programs like the Graduate Advance Program and the Graduate Child Assistance Program (GCAP) A searchable directory of University Knowledge Base articles and links to external resources for guidance on financial questions A Net Pay Tool which lays out a unified view of University income and expenses which can be downloaded for use in personal financial planning. We recognize that the decision to pursue graduate study requires a significant commitment of time, energy and resources. Below is a brief summary of Princeton’s funding policy for its graduate students. In addition, the webpages in this section provide additional information for graduate students on tuition and costs and funding sources, including fellowships, assistantships, external funding, travel grants, loans and assistance, and Federal Work Study. Princeton guarantees funding for its regularly enrolled, degree-seeking Ph.D. candidates for all years of regular program enrollment, contingent upon satisfactory academic performance. The defined Ph.D. program length is generally five years, with a few exceptions of four year programs. Over a Ph.D. student’s years of regular enrollment, this funding may come from a variety of sources, which in combination provide a minimum level of annual support that includes full tuition and fees support and a base stipend amount. This base stipend is intended to support the estimated living expenses of a single graduate student during each year of regular enrollment. Students who need to use the educational resources outside of Princeton University and will not be in residence may apply for in absentia status. Students who are granted in absentia status pay a marginal cost tuition rate that includes the mandatory student health plan fee. Please refer to Funding for In Absentia Students for more information. After their regular enrollment period ends, Ph.D. students who have not completed their degree have the opportunity to be enrolled for up to two additional years in Dissertation Completion Enrollment (DCE) status, paying a marginal cost tuition rate. Because their funding is not guaranteed, DCE students are encouraged to work with their departments to obtain a research or partial teaching appointment or to seek out and apply for external funding. Please refer to Funding for DCE Students for more information. The funding for master’s candidates varies by department. In general, the Graduate School does not provide central funding for master’s candidates; however, master’s students are eligible for assistantships in research and instruction. Resources Graduate Financial Support: General Funding Guidelines Funding for In Absentia Students Funding for DCE Students Student Employment Princeton Financial Literacy Departmental Funding Extension Related to Covid-19 Tuition and Costs Stipend Rates Funding Sources Education Loans and Work Study Graduate Student Hourly Employment Definitions Policies Financial Wellness Fellow Program Tiger Cents Chronicles Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University