Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home About Us About Us Established in 1910, the Graduate School at The University of Texas at Austin enrolls nearly 8,200 graduate and 2,000 professional students in more than 100 fields of study, and awards about 900 doctoral and 3,000 master's degrees each year. The university is among the top producers of doctoral degrees in the United States (National Science Foundation Survey of Earned Doctorates, 2013) and is one of three southwestern members of the Association of American Universities. Mission As an active community of diverse scholars in academic programs dedicated to excellence in original research, teaching, creative expression and intellectual leadership, we cultivate individuals who work together to bring knowledge, innovation and best practices to meet the great and small challenges of our time. Faculty & Staff Support During your graduate studies, you will spend the majority of your time in your home department, where the faculty, resources and services integral to your academic program reside. These resources include admission and graduate coordinators (staff members who may be your most important contacts and administrative liaisons) and graduate advisors (faculty who have been appointed by the department or program to advise current students on issues related to degree programs). In addition, each program offering a graduate degree has a Graduate Studies Committee (GSC). The GSC reviews students for admission to the program, sets program-specific requirements for their graduate degrees, and approves students for admission to candidacy for degrees. While your department will provide much of what you need while a student here, the Graduate School also plays an important role in your time at the university. In addition to granting your degree at convocation and administering the rules and regulations of the university governing compliance and degree completion, the Graduate School provides academic services, administers fellowships, and works to promote graduate education at the university and beyond. Our staff includes the Dean of Graduate Studies, dean’s executive staff (associate and assistant deans), dean’s administrative staff, and student services administrative staff. We look forward to offering our support to enhance your graduate experience and to help you successfully complete your program. Programs & Contacts Learn about program offerings and make contact with an admission or graduate coordinator—it's all online. Read More Quick Links Organizational Chart Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022