Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Financial Assistance > Health Insurance Coverage Health Insurance Coverage FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research and Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Students who have a 20-hour per week teaching/research/administrative office assistantship, Woobank Assistantship, or full University fellowship (such as Bellwether Fellowships or Henneke Research Fellowships) and who are uninsured are eligible to receive the University Student Health Insurance that is provided by the University of Tulsa to the individual student. This is a community benefit; therefore, students who already have health insurance that pays benefits in Oklahoma will not be reimbursed, nor may the student receive the equivalent cost of the insurance to apply to another policy with another company. To acquire the insurance, a student must complete the Graduate Assistant or Fellow Request for University Student Health Insurance form available at the Graduate School. Please note, all students enrolled at the University of Tulsa are required to have health insurance coverage that provides benefits in the State of Oklahoma. The health insurance coverage provided as part of some graduate awards is meant to help more students meet this requirement. If you have questions about this benefit in regard to graduate awards, please contact Janet Bolois or 918-631-2339. For more information regarding the general student health insurance policy on campus and the available plan options,visit the Alexander Health Center. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT