Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Types of Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Types of Aid Determine the types of aid available to finance a master’s program at Brown including veteran benefits and private educational loans. Federal Student Aid Federal loans are available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants We offer resources for graduate students researching scholarships, fellowships and grant opportunities. Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Brown continues its commitment to veterans by collaborating with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on the Post 9/11 GI Bill and the Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program. Private Educational Loans Private educational loans are available to domestic and international graduate students. Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Emergency funding and other grants and loans are available to graduate students who have an urgent need. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Types of Aid Open details for Types of Aid Bookmark this Page