CAMPAIGN About the Campaign Key Initiatives UC Health Emergency Department UC Cancer Center Scholarships Recognition Ways to Give IMPACT Impact Stories UC student lifted by fellow Bearcats A Piece of History “Doc” ensures student-athletes are cared for Former UC Football Captain Supports Football Program Sisters and Bearcats Empower Our Next Leaders Explore Our Next Frontier Embrace Our Next Purpose Colleges Collaborate to Treat Depression Honoring a Daughter's Memory Finding Common Ground Donors Provide Scholarship Support and Real-World Experience Mallows met at UC; Now They Focus on Giving Back IMPACT Innovation at UC Legacy of Learning Preserving a Legacy Providing Elementary Students a Chance to Succeed Endowment Fund Supports Department of History Honoring a Legacy Giving Back to First Generation Students Preserving a Passion DAAP Student Makes Bold Moves Thanks to Donor Support Investing in Others Supporting the Future A Nontraditional Journey A Legacy Continued Sweet Support Expanding Horizons Getting Back in the Pool A Gift for the Future Making a Musician Scholarships solved the puzzle to success Lindner Professor Uses Analytics to Solve Problems Annual Report Videos NEWS Press Releases Huffman Foundation gift UC Foundation Trustee Gifts $3 Million to Carl H. Lindner College of Business Couple makes $9 million gift to University of Cincinnati Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati Launches UC Emergency Funds Raise Over $55,000 News | Donation expands UC Health testing capabilities for COVID-19 2021 New Trustees UC Day of Giving a Success UCAA Day of Giving Downtown mural Endowed Professorship News Archive Mantei Center ABOUT About Us Careers Staff President Board Anti-Racist Statement Brand Guide SEARCH GIVE NOW Search: Search Colleges and Schools Your support of individual colleges within the University of Cincinnati helps support scholarships, research and special programs throughout UC. Select a college below to learn more about that school's vision and read about funds that have been identified as priorities. College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Carl H. Lindner College of Business UC Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy UC Blue Ash College The Graduate School The Graduate School Giving Initiatives The University of Cincinnati has been a pioneer in graduate education. Prior to the formal establishment of the Graduate Schoolin 1901, the university granted 83 advanced degrees. More than a century later, approximately 59,000 (25%) of the university’s 238,000 living alumni have earned advanced degrees from UC.In order to be competitive in this complex, ever-evolving, global society, individuals must advance their skill set by obtaining a graduate education. In 2009, the Graduate School awarded more than 2,400 advanced degrees, with 416 being at the doctorate level. Out of our 35 graduate programs that are ranked nationally for public universities, 31 place in the Top 50. The Graduate School continues to re-invent itself to promote and deliver excellence in scholarship, research, and service. Innovation and Graduate Student Life Center Equipped with cutting-edge technology and sophisticated design and engineering tools, UC’s new Innovation Center will provide the resources for collaborative teams of faculty and students to conduct research, design and implement projects, and imagine and re-imagine future projects. The Graduate Life spaces in the Center will house up to 400 students in a variety of floor plans and provide emergency day care, an informal lounge with café and multi-purpose spaces to encourage cross-disciplinary activities between graduate faculty and graduate students. University Graduate Scholarships Scholarship funding plays a key role in graduate education, enabling the university to create a distinctive and productive environment that attracts the best students worldwide. Doctoral Dissertation Defense Room To recognize the academic significance of this milestone achievement, a room will be designed with state-of-the-art presentation technology to highlight the importance of the event and to connect to the rich history of doctoral education at UC. Click here for more information on the Graduate School (link to http://www.grad.uc.edu/). Contact Information Curtis Eaton Director of Development University Initiatives 513-556-6343 Quick Links UC Home Alumni Association Campaign UC Bicentennial UC Health Contact Us The University of Cincinnati Foundation PO Box 19970 Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-6781 | 888-556-8889 513-556-4300 (fax) ucfoundation@uc.edu University Hall, Suite 100 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45219 Stay in Touch Like being the first to know? You’ll get timely updates on news, events and more from the UC Foundation. Subscribe Careers UC Foundation Privacy Policy Instagram Facebook Youtube Twitter LinkedIn