Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Financial Support Tax Information Preparing Taxes Preparing Taxes Federal Taxes Learn More About Taxes Help Preparing Taxes Getting Started Federal Taxes What is the purpose of taxes? Taxes are a way to make sure that every person with an income pays the government their appropriate share. The money you pay in taxes goes to many places including social security, defense and international security assistance, Medicare/Medicaid, safety net programs, and interest on debt. In addition to government workers’ salaries, common resources (such as police and firefighters), infrastructure, public libraries, and parks, among other things, are supported through taxes. In the United States, the burden is on you to understand, interpret, and report accurately. What is the deadline for filling taxes? In most years, the deadline is April 15. What is the outcome after I file my taxes? There are generally two outcomes. You will need to either pay taxes if you did not pay enough during the previous calendar year. Or, if you overpaid your tax burden, you will receive a tax refund. What types of taxes do I need to pay? This depends on your individual circumstances and your legal residence. My friends pay less tax than me. Why? Taxes are highly individualized based on many factors that vary greatly even between two people in similar circumstances. Your salary and withholding tax are only two pieces of a much bigger puzzle. Income, deductions, number of exemptions, tax credits, phase-out of exemptions, deductions, and credits, as well as withholding and estimated tax payments, are all factors in determining the amount of your refund or (gasp!) the amount you owe the government at year end. Your annual income tax calculation starts with ALL sources of taxable income for the year. In addition to your weekly paycheck, this can include a spouse’s salary, interest, dividends, capital gains or losses, unemployment, retirement distributions, social security, rental income, small business income, cancelled debts, alimony, gambling winnings, and even bribes! You also have adjustments to income. Depending on your situation, these could include deductions for traditional IRA contributions, student loan interest deduction, alimony paid, and others. Learn More About Taxes Where do I learn more about taxes? Cornell-specific information: Basic information, the 1098-T, 1098-T FAQ, fellowship recipients, and general information. International Students: Review the Global Learning website first. Review the tax preparation assistance and resident or non-resident pages. All students: Review the IRS website and NY state websites. Personal Finance for Ph.D.s: Personal Finance for Ph.D.s are not professional tax preparers; this website is for informational purposes only and does not constitute tax advice. Preparing Taxes Free help preparing taxes: For international students: Tax information for International Students – Global Learning provides free tax preparation software for international students. (Turbo Tax and other products do not include the right forms for international students, do not use them.) Tax preparation from Alternatives Credit Union: Alternatives Federal Credit Union offers free tax preparation for those who qualify. If your income is less than $57,000, you could be eligible. If you decide to work with a tax preparer, please follow these tips: Check the preparer’s qualifications Check the preparer’s history Ask about service fees Ask to e-file Make sure the preparer is available Provide records and receipts Never sign a blank return Review before signing Ensure the preparer signs and includes their PTIN Source and more information Getting Started Go to Student Center to make sure your address on record is accurate. If you received any funds through the university, you will receive tax documents detailing what you received. Domestic students should have received most of them by January 31. International students will receive their documents soon. Collect your documents and any other statements you might have received. For example, your bank may have sent you a statement depending on the type of account you have and the bank’s location. How you file will depend on your residency. International Students: You will need to file U.S. federal tax returns if you received any U.S. based funds, such as wages, fellowships, or a travel grant. The Office of Global Learning provides access to software (SPRINTAX) to assist you, but WAIT! We will make SPRINTAX available only after all required tax documents (W-2 and/or 1042S) are available in early March. In the meantime, please make sure that your Student Center address is up-to-date with your current local address, and review tax information provided on the Global Learning website. Domestic students: Programs such as Turbo Tax guide domestic taxpayers through each item of income and deductions, and users need to simply input the information from their tax documents (i.e., W-2, 1099, 1098, 1095, etc.). Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022