Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Graduate College Main Menu In this section Prospective Students Student Services Financing Your Graduate Education International Students Admissions Request Information Application Process Apply Programs Master's & Doctoral Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Online Programs Professional Development About the Program Events Graduate Student Success Center Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Best Practices About Us About the Graduate College Meet the Staff Grad Ambassadors Graduate College Application Process Non-Degree Seeking Student Admission Non-Degree Seeking Student Admission What Is Non-Degree Seeking None-Degree Seeking is for students who wish to take graduate courses before choosing a particular degree. Why Non-Degree Seeking A person may be admitted to the Graduate College as a non degree-seeking student if he or she does not have immediate plans to become a degree candidate, but wants to take graduate courses, prerequisites or other courses. APPLY Request more information Application Process Contact Graduate College202 Whitehurst Stillwater, Ok 74078(405)744-6368grad-i@okstate.edu Program details Department: Interdisciplinary Studies College: Graduate College Degree Type Non-Degree Seeking Degree Options Non-Degree Seeking Information and Requirements Admission to the Graduate College as a non-degree seeking student means only that the person will be permitted to enroll in courses through the Graduate College. It does not necessarily imply that the person has been or will be admitted to a program leading to an advanced degree or that the person will be able to obtain a graduate degree. Visa Status: F1 and J1 visa holders can not be admitted as non-degree seeking students until this is associated with an OPT or OCT opportunity. Requirements: Non-degree seeking students are subject to the same admission standards as degree-seeking students. Applicants for non-degree seeking status are not automatically admitted without due deliberation of their past academic performance. A non-degree seeking applicant can be considered for admission "Without Qualification" provided his/ her overall grade point average is 3.00 or higher for all courses on his/her bachelor's degree transcript or his/her master's degree transcript. An applicant whose GPA does not meet this criteria can be considered for admission after consultation and recommendation of the Non-degree seeking Student Advisor who may consider additional factors in making a decision. The student is responsible for filing a new application for admission to the Graduate College should he or she wish to become a degree candidate. The new application will be evaluated by faculty of that academic program and the dean of the Graduate College to ascertain admissibility to the degree program. As such work is not guided by a plan of study or approved by an advisor, no more than nine semester credit hours of course work taken while a non-degree seeking student may be used on a plan of study to meet requirements for a degree or certificate program. Non-degree seeking students are subject to the same academic regulations as those students admitted into degree programs. Some programs (such as the MBA program) have lower limits. Non-degree seeking students are strongly encouraged to consult with the instructor of any course in which they intend to enroll in order to ensure that they are adequately prepared for that course. Additional information and requirements can be found in the Graduate College section of the OSU Catalog. Advising: Academic advising for non-degree seeking students is carried out by an advisor appointed by the Graduate College. Please contact the Graduate College at 405-744-6368 for details. Application Fee: The application fee is $25 for domestic students or U.S. Permanent Resident card holders, or $75 for persons holding a visa. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate College Request Information Graduate College 202 Whitehurst Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-6368 | Email the Graduate College Follow US Research NewsReport a Broken LinkCalendarUniversity Resources Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©