Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Graduate School of Medical Sciences Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options News Seminars Student Research Thesis Defenses Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Vincent du Vigneaud Annual Research Symposium Newsletter Annual AwardsToggle Annual Awards menu options Alumni Award of Distinction Excellence in Teaching and Mentoring Award Julian R. Rachele Prize Student Service Award Vincent du Vigneaud Symposium Awards WCM Graduate Student Fellowships AdmissionsToggle Admissions menu options Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers AcademicsToggle Academics menu options PhD ProgramsToggle PhD Programs menu options BCMB Allied ProgramToggle BCMB Allied Program menu options Biochemistry & Structural Biology Cell & Developmental Biology Molecular Biology Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems BiologyToggle Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology menu options PBSB Program at Houston Methodist Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Master's ProgramsToggle Master's Programs menu options Health Sciences for Physician AssistantsToggle Health Sciences for Physician Assistants menu options PA Program Certificate Ceremony-Class of 2021 PA Program Matriculation Ceremony Clinical & Translational Investigation Clinical Epidemiology Population Health SciencesToggle Population Health Sciences menu options Biostatistics and Data Science Health Informatics Health Policy and Economics Computational Biology Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Biomedical Imaging Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate ResearchToggle Summer Undergraduate Research menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Engineering Summer Program Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student ExperienceToggle Student Experience menu options Student FormsToggle Student Forms menu options Alumni Contact Information Form Student ServicesToggle Student Services menu options Office of the Registrar Housing Student Government (GSEC) Diversity and InclusionToggle Diversity and Inclusion menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Esprit de Corps Student Clubs and InitiativesToggle Student Clubs and Initiatives menu options Badminton Club (GSEC) Biotech Club Early STEM Outreach Club Hockey Team (GSEC) Science & Education Policy Association (SEPA) Soccer Club (GSEC) Softball Club (GSEC) The Science Communication Club (GSEC) Tri-I Outreach Club (TORC) Volleyball Club (GSEC) WCMC Book Club (GSEC) Yoga Club Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing ResourcesToggle Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources menu options Fellowship Opportunities Meet our fellows Weill Cornell Graduate School Fellowship Award Policies Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Admissions Academics Student Experience Faculty Our Trainees Home Academics PhD Programs PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis BCMB Allied Program Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Overview Immunology and microbial pathogenesis are exciting fields of research. Once a stand-alone discipline, immunology has evolved into a multi-focus science that today involves many facets of biology and medicine. The rich nomenclature in current use in immunology, which employs such terms as "Tumor," "Molecular," "Cellular," "Developmental," and "host-pathogen” and “host-commensal microbiota” relationships, reflects this diversity. Conversely, the qualifier in "immuno-therapy" or "immuno-modulation" signifies integration into medical practice, coming full circle to the origin of immunology as the science of vaccination. Doctoral Program in Immunology and Microbial Pathogenesis at the Weill Cornell Graduate School offers rich training for the next generation of immunologists. Various IMP faculty members are as much at home in cell biology, biochemistry, development, genetics, structural biology, bioinformatics, and systems biology as they are in their own chosen specialties in immunology or microbial pathogenesis. IMP faculty are members of the Graduate School's partner institutions, which include Weill Cornell Medical College (WCMC) and Sloan-Kettering Institute (SKI, part of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center). Some IMP faculty are affiliated with the Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS), a leading rheumatology and orthopedics institute adjacent to and closely affiliated with WCMC. With its broad base, IMP offers an unusually rich training ground for the next generation of immunologists. Major areas of focus are microbial immunity, tumor immunology, molecular and cellular immunology, lymphocyte and leukocyte biology, autoimmunity, and inflammation. The clinical relevance of these endeavors, together with the clinical partnerships, in which our three research institutions participate, create strong motivation and opportunity for translational research. Because of its complexity, modern immunology poses the challenge of presenting a sufficiently comprehensive curriculum for its students. IMP meets this challenge by drawing its faculty from the basic science and clinical departments of its participating institutions. This collective expertise enables IMP to provide its students with high-quality, broad-based education necessary for their development as independent scientists. IMP's philosophy of granting students maximum academic freedom encourages them to gain needed additional experience outside the framework of traditional immunology. Career goals may lead a student to work with and choose as a mentor, a Graduate School faculty member from any of the participating institutions (WMC, SKI, and HSS) and from any of the seven graduate programs. The program's curriculum likewise reflects a commitment to academic independence. While the first year of study is spent with didactic courses in immunology and cell biology, all classes are followed by student-run discussion groups. Laboratory rotations complement formal classroom learning. Students may take graduate courses offered by any other WCGS program, as well as a course in Microbial Pathogenesis offered jointly with another neighbor, The Rockefeller University. IMP students continue a balanced academic curriculum throughout their thesis research. Mini-courses in advanced immunology with rotating topics ensure that students keep abreast of new developments. A rich palette of seminars by invited speakers offers similar opportunities. Students also organize research-in-progress discussions of their own thesis projects. As a graduate program of intermediate size, IMP has a favorable student/mentor ratio of close to 1:1. The accessibility and openness of faculty make for exceptional community spirit, fostering scientific independence and simultaneously preparing young scientists for the necessary collaborative endeavors ahead. Check out our Student Handbook: 2021-2022_imp_student_handbook.pdf Program Requirements Admissions Applicants should have a strong undergraduate background and record of achievement in the biological sciences, including biochemistry, molecular genetics, and microbiology. Applicants are also expected to have undergraduate laboratory research experience. An official transcript of the student's undergraduate record is necessary, with three letters from faculty members who can evaluate the academic potential of the student in a Ph.D. program in immunology and microbial pathogenesis. The application requires a personal statement describing the student's background and specific interest in the Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis program. Applicants are not required to take the General Graduate Record Examination. Applicants whose native language is not English are required to take the TOEFL examination. Apply Online provides a full description of the application procedures. Message from the IMP community Weill Cornell Medicine is a community that strongly values and appreciates diversity among its students, trainees, faculty, and staff. Since the founding of our institution, we have been committed to supporting individuals of varied and wide-ranging backgrounds to succeed in medicine and science. Diversity continues to be a major priority at Weill Cornell Medicine because we recognize that patient care, biomedical discovery, and learning are enriched by the contributions of people with different perspectives, skills, and life experiences. The Immunology Microbial and Pathogenesis program has a diverse student body which includes, over 66 students that come from various international and national backgrounds. Our faculty of outstanding scientists consist of multiple ethnicities, immigrants, and 1st generation members that are committed to training our students. Our students and faculty work on a number of platforms which include: The Diversity Program in Leadership Alliance, NIH Graduate Recruitment Fairs, IMSD Early Start Program, and the Social Justice and Anti-Racism Task Force. Our goal is to further strengthen our culture of diversity and inclusion through the use of dialogue and collaboration. Becoming A Doctoral Candidate An individual program of study is developed for each student on the basis of the student's interest and prior experience, comprising both required and elective courses. The IMP program places great emphasis on scholarship. Beginning in the first year with course work in fundamental immunology and complemented by electives in anything from cell biology to structural biology, the program offers continued education throughout the graduate studies in the form of an Advanced Immunology course with flexible topics, an Immunology Seminar Series highlighting the latest developments in the field presented by distinguished scientists, and a student-run “Research in Progress” forum for a critical discussion of their thesis research and the exchange of ideas. Each IMP student, with the help of the mentor, must participate regularly in journal clubs throughout the graduate training. He/she may choose elective courses among all courses offered by the other programs of the Graduate School. A description of each course is provided at Courses. The IMP annual retreat is an integral part of the program. This off-site meeting includes formal presentations by faculty, graduate students, and postdoctoral fellows. In addition, it requires graduate students (in year two and above) and postdoctoral fellows to contribute to poster sessions and workshops. Prizes are awarded for outstanding publications. A major focus of IMP is laboratory research. Each student undertakes three rotation projects with different faculty members. The three rotations are carried out during the first year and the summer following the first year of study. During the second year, the student is expected to choose a major sponsor and to develop a research topic for the doctoral thesis. The Admission to Doctoral Candidacy Examination (ACE) is ordinarily taken in the spring of the second year and requires both written and oral examination of the candidate's general understanding of immunology and related subjects. When a student passes the ACE, he/she is a candidate for the PhD degree. Ph.D. Research and Degree A Special Committee, comprising the major sponsor and two additional faculty members knowledgeable in the field of study (minor sponsors) advises the student in his or her research, meeting periodically to monitor progress, and to oversee the development of the thesis. During this time the student continues to participate in the other educational programs offered by the graduate program but works full time in the laboratory. The culmination of the student’s successful progression through the program is the final examination (the “defense”) and certification by the Special Committee that the thesis represents an official piece of research satisfying the requirements of the Graduate School for the Ph.D. degree. Student Stories Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Nora Pyenson My favorite part of Weill Cornell is the sense of community within the graduate school and the research institutions –– students and faculty are genuinely interested in supporting one another. Read Full Story... Research Topics Autoimmunity Innate Immunity Lymphocyte Biology Microbial Pathogenesis Tumor Immunology Faculty Anandasabapathy, Niroshana Artis, David Barrat, Franck Blander, Julie Magarian Brown, Chrysothemis Cesarman, Ethel Chaudhuri, Jayanta Chen-Kiang, Selina Crow, Mary Cubillos-Ruiz, Juan Diehl, Gretchen Ehrt, Sabine Fearon, Douglas Geissmann, Frederic Glickman, Michael Guo, Chun-Jun Hanash, Alan Hohl, Tobias Huse, Morgan Iliev, Iliyan Ivashkiv, Lionel Jones, R. Brad Josefowicz, Steven Koretzky, Gary Li, Ming Longman, Randy Lu, Theresa Ma, Xiaojing Melnick, Ari Nathan, Carl O'Reilly, Richard Pascual, Virginia Permar, Sallie Pernis, Alessandra Perry, Justin Rhee, Kyu Rogatsky, Inez Rudensky, Alexander Sadelain, Michel Salmon, Jane Schietinger, Andrea Sonnenberg, Gregory Sun, Joseph Thompson, Craig Van den Brink, Marcel Vardhana, Santosha Vartanian, Timothy Wolchok, Jedd Worgall, Stefan Xavier, Joao Zappasodi, Roberta Zeng, Melody Courses Advanced Topics in Immunology Fundamental Immunology and Microbiology Immunology Research in Progress Microbial Pathogenesis Quantitative Understanding in Biology Responsible Conduct of Research Seminars in Immunology Leadership Program Co-Chairs Ehrt, Sabine Rudensky, Alexander Program Co-Directors Sun, Joseph Lu, Theresa Program Coordinator imp.admissions@med.cornell.edu Students Entering Class 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Career Outcomes IMP Career Outcomes Retreat Retreat 2019 Retreat 2018 Retreat 2017 Retreat 2016 Retreat 2015 Retreat 2014 Retreat 2013 Retreat 2012 Weill Cornell Graduate School Campus Tour Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School Campus Tour Video of Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School Campus Tour Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School Housing & Student Life Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School Housing & Student Life Video of Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School Housing &amp;amp; Student Life Ready to start? Apply now Need more info? Ask a question Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School of Medical Sciences 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 Jump To Top Our Location Graduate School of Medical Sciences Contact Us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 About Us WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and Events Newsletter Annual Awards Admissions Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers Academics PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student Experience Student Forms Student Services Diversity and Inclusion Student Clubs and Initiatives Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance