Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Health and Health Policy Academic Year: 2021-22 Department or Program: Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Address: 186A Julis Romo Rabinowitz Building Phone: 609-258-8271 Website: The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Graduate Certificates Program offerings: Certificate Director of Graduate Studies Bryan Grenfell Graduate Program Administrator Gilbert Collins Overview The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) offers a graduate certificate in Health and Health Policy, in collaboration with the Center for Health and Wellbeing. The certificate trains graduate students for careers in health-related areas in the public and not-for-profit sectors. The program is designed for graduate students with domestic and international health interests and provides both broad training in core topics in health and health policy as well as courses in specialized areas. SPIA master's students are eligible for the certificate. Princeton University graduate students in other departments may also make arrangements to complete the certificate. The certificate is not open to undergraduates or to students from other universities. It is not a stand-alone certificate program; students must be enrolled in a graduate degree-granting program at Princeton to receive the certificate. The certificate does not appear on the official transcript. Certificate Certificate Requirements: Program Description: The certificate program, started in 2003-04, reflects the growing importance of health as a major public policy issue, and underscores SPIA's commitment to teaching and research in health and health policy. SPIA master's students and Ph.D. students from other departments can enroll in the certificate program online at https://spianet.princeton.edu/spiaforms/cert_declare.php. The enrollment is non-binding. Ph.D. students should first discuss their plans to complete the certificate with their dissertation chairs. Courses: Certificate students are required to complete two core courses and two approved health-related electives. The two core courses are usually offered every year. In years a core course is not offered, a substitute course is designated. Students may take the core courses in any sequence during their first or second years. The core courses may not be taken P/D/F if students wish to count them towards the certificate. Faculty Director Andrea L. Graham Bryan T. Grenfell (co-director) Heather H. Howard (co-director) C. Jessica E. Metcalf Associate Director Gilbert D. Collins Executive Committee Ruha Benjamin, African American Studies Amy B. Borovoy, East Asian Studies Janet M. Currie, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Noreen Goldman, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Andrea L. Graham, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Bryan T. Grenfell, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Katja Guenther, History Kate Ho, Economics Heather H. Howard, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Yibin Kang, Molecular Biology C. Jessica E. Metcalf, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Sanyu A. Mojola, Sociology Robert K. Prud'homme, Chemical and Biological Eng Daniel I. Rubenstein, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Associated Faculty Elizabeth M. Armstrong, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Bonnie L. Bassler, Molecular Biology He Bian, History João Biehl, Anthropology Mark P. Brynildsen, Chemical and Biological Eng Angela N. Creager, History Andy P. Dobson, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Lynn W. Enquist, Molecular Biology Thomas Fujiwara, Economics Zemer Gitai, Molecular Biology John T. Groves, Chemistry Elizabeth Harman, Philosophy Brooke A. Holmes, Classics Niraj K. Jha, Electrical & Comp Engineering Ilyana Kuziemko, Economics Simon A. Levin, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology A. James Link, Chemical and Biological Eng Celeste M. Nelson, Chemical and Biological Eng Alexander Ploss, Molecular Biology Deborah A. Prentice, Provost Joshua D. Rabinowitz, Chemistry Carolyn M. Rouse, Anthropology Matthew J. Salganik, Sociology Mohammad R. Seyedsayamdost, Chemistry Eldar Shafir, Psychology Harold T. Shapiro, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Peter A. Singer, Center for Human Values Erik J. Sorensen, Chemistry Keith A. Wailoo, History Sits with Committee Anne C. Case Angus S. Deaton Arbel Griner Daniel A. Notterman Sebastian Ramirez Hernandez Benjamin L. Rice For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University