Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Financial Support Fellowships External Fellowships List of External Fellowships List of External Fellowships The graduate school at the University of California, Los Angeles maintains one of the most extensive and up to date university databases on graduate school funding opportunities (GRAPES). The nomination process for the following external fellowship programs are overseen by the associate dean for academic and student affairs. Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowship (applications due in January) NAGS Awards (applications due in February) Regeneron Prize (internal application deadline is in January; external deadline is in February) Heidelberg Laureate Forum (application deadline is in March) Eisenhower-Roberts Fellowship (application materials due in March) CGS Gustave O. Arlt Award in the Humanities (applications are due in April) CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award in the field of Biological/Life Sciences and Humanities/Fine Arts (application materials due in July) Presidential Management Fellow Program (applications due in October or November; dates change from year to year) Lindau Meeting (submissions due in November) Trudeau Fellowships (printed applications due in November or electronic applications due in December) Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowship Please send an email to Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs Jan Allen indicating your intent to apply by November 1. You will receive additional information and a link to the application preparation workshop on November 11 (4:00 p.m.). All application materials are due to the Graduate School no later than December 15, 2021, and should be sent to Associate Dean Jan Allen (jan.allen@cornell.edu). Candidate Qualifications Fellowships are available to students who are currently enrolled in a graduate degree program at a designated university in the U.S. Your program of study can include any recognized graduate field in the humanities, social sciences, or natural sciences (including law, medicine, engineering, architecture, or other formal professional training). The selection committee has a strong preference for supporting scholarly endeavors. The candidate may be of any national descent or background. The candidate must: Have an outstanding undergraduate record. Demonstrate a need for financial assistance. Must be a citizen of the United States of America. Fellowship Details The amount of each fellowship will cover actual tuition costs (no fees) plus an $18,000 annual stipend to be allocated towards room, board, and ordinary living expenses, as well as any income taxes thereon. The recipient of a fellowship shall be known as a Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellow. Fellowships are awarded annually, and each Fellow must apply for a renewal of his or her fellowship by late March of the following year in accordance with the terms in effect at the time the fellowship is awarded. Fellowships will be limited to a maximum of three years. Awarded fellowships may not be deferred. A fellowship may be canceled at any time if a Fellow engages in misconduct affecting the Fund, breaches any of these rules, or provides false information to the Fund either directly or indirectly. Application Process Designated institutions facilitate the application process for its students. Students must submit applications and supporting documents through Cornell’s Graduate School. Decision notifications will be sent to the school, who will inform applicants. Students should not contact JPMorgan or members of the selection committee. Each designated institution may submit up to three candidates for consideration. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Application Materials 2022-2023 Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Application Checklist for Students 2022-2023 Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Application NAGS Awards Each year the Northeastern Association of Graduate Schools (NAGS) recognizes an outstanding master’s thesis and an outstanding dissertation that has been produced by a student at one of its member institutions. Nominees for the dissertation award must have received their degree within five years of the competition, while nominees for the thesis award must have received their degrees within three years preceding the year of the competition. More information about NAGS awards currently soliciting nominations is available on the awards page of their website. Please direct any questions to Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs Jan Allen at jan.allen@cornell.edu. Regeneron Prize for Creative Innovation Mission: To recognize and honor excellence in biomedical science conducted by graduate students and postdoctoral fellows. Prize Details One graduate student and one postdoctoral fellow will be selected to receive the Regeneron Prize for Outstanding Research each year. Each prize will include a check for $50,000. In addition, prize winners will receive a $5,000 donation to their home institution to help support their seminar series. Semi-finalists and finalists for each prize will be awarded $5,000 (approximately eight to 10 applicants for each prize will be selected for this distinction). Nominations Candidates must be nominated for the prize by their program heads/deans and must prepare a two-page description of their “dream” research idea. Candidates should also submit their CVs and evidence of scholarly achievement. Each institution may nominate no more than two total trainees for each of the prizes (two graduate students and two postdoctoral fellows), and therefore each nomination form must include a signature of the program head or dean endorsing the candidate. The Research Proposal Applicants must submit a brief document (two single-spaced pages) describing a “dream” project that they would want to do within the field of biomedical science. As a guideline, applicants should imagine what research they would do if they had access to any resource or technology. Applicants should include a description of the design of the project as well as its potential to make an impact in biomedicine. Application Materials Required Trainees/program heads must submit: the nomination form, which includes an endorsement signature the candidate’s CV PDFs of publications by the candidate the two-page research description (single-spaced) This competition is run through Research Development in the Office of Sponsored Programs. Apply to the internal competition and email the Limited Submissions team at ovpr_limited_submissions@cornell.edu with questions about the competition. Heidelberg Laureate Forum Graduate Student Awards to Attend the Heidelberg Laureate Forum (HLF) in Heidelberg, Germany. To be eligible as a member of the U.S. delegation, applicants must also submit their application to the HLF. The Scientific Committee of the HLF Foundation will make final decisions on which young researchers will be offered invitations to attend the HLF. ORAU and NSF will select members of the U.S. delegation. Members of the delegation will receive all meeting-related travel costs and additional benefits. This form will give ORAU permission to receive on behalf of NSF your application materials on submitted to the HLF for selection to the U.S. delegation. Eligibility Criteria Graduate students must (1) be enrolled as a full-time graduate at U.S. institution; (2) have completed by June at least two academic years of study toward a doctoral degree in computer science, mathematics, or a related discipline; (3) be planning a dissertation/thesis defense after December, and (4) be actively participating in a research project. Postdoctoral researchers must (1) have received a Ph.D. no more than three years prior to September; (2) have a postdoctoral appointment/position at an U.S. institution, and (3) have a postdoctoral appointment/position that will not expire before December. Application Process Applications can be made to the National Science Foundation (NSF), if the eligibility criteria are met. The form must be submitted electronically via the ORAU submission website. An award to the U.S. delegation to the Heidelberg Laureate Forum (HLF) is dependent on a final selection process by the HLF Foundation. Final award announcements will be made about mid-May. Please visit the ORAU Heidelberg Laureate Forum website for more information. Sponsorship The costs associated with selected young researchers’ travel will be covered by ORAU. This includes, but is not limited to, airfare, lodging, meals, ground transportation, and registration fee for the Heidelberg Meeting. Deadline This application must be submitted by early March. Eisenhower-Roberts Fellowship Applicants should be at an advanced stage of their doctoral candidacies, preferably at the point of preparing their dissertations. The Eisenhower Institute will consider, on written university recommendation in unique circumstances, applications of less advanced graduate students or of persons who have recently earned their doctorates and wish to pursue studies in the Institute’s field of interest. Applicants are selected on merit and must be receiving their graduate degree from one of the following institutions: University of Chicago, Columbia University, Harvard University, Cornell University, Kansas University, Princeton University, University of Texas at Austin, University of Virginia, Washington University at St. Louis, Stanford University, Vanderbilt University, or The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Research Subject Parameters The Eisenhower Institute seeks to support study and education dealing with the role of government in a free society, citizen public service, public policy, and improved understanding of America’s role in world affairs. The Institute desires to encourage and assist promising young Americans to pursue studies and research in fields such as history, government, economics, business administration, and international affairs, so they may provide informed leadership in the conduct of our national life. Applications The participating universities (noted above) will advertise and make known that the Dwight D. Eisenhower/Clifford Roberts graduate fellowship program is available to their students. Each university will screen, through its own review procedures, its applicants and forward no more than two highly qualified applicants to The Eisenhower Institute for consideration of a fellowship award. Each university has the option to rank applications if it so chooses. Each institution will nominate candidates using The Eisenhower Institute’s online nomination form. Each application must include: The applicant’s curriculum vitae A statement describing the nature and scope of the dissertation, including a timetable for its completion A writing sample of 10-15 pages, preferably on a topic related to the dissertation A statement, not exceeding 1,000 words, of the applicant’s career aspirations Two letters of recommendation, one of which must be from the applicant’s doctoral advisor. These letters should not be seen by the applicants and should be sent directly to the Eisenhower Institute. Such other information as the participating university may require, such as academic transcripts Please note that all components of the application should be submitted as a single PDF file via email to ei@eisenhowerinstitute.org. The applicant’s name and university should be on the header of each page. Schedules Applications must be received by email to The Eisenhower Institute at ei@eisenhowerinstitute.org by mid-March. The Grants Committee of the Eisenhower Institute Board of Directors will then conduct its review and selection procedures. Notifications of fellowships granted for the program will be sent to the appropriate universities after early May. Funding and Reporting Requirements Each fellowship award is for a stipend of $10,000 which will be paid to the universities, half by August 1 and the remainder by December 1. Each university may make its own arrangements for disbursing the funds to the Fellows. The Institute requires a brief progress report from the Fellow’s doctoral advisor prior to mid-November in order for the second half of the stipend to be disbursed by the Institute. Publications and Gettysburg Visit The Institute requires receipt of the Fellow’s dissertation once completed along with an acknowledgement of the Institute’s support of the work. Also, fellows will be asked to visit Gettysburg College for a presentation of the work. Contact Please contact David Wemer, DC Program Coordinator of the Eisenhower Institute, via email at dwemer@gettysburg.edu or by phone at 202-628-4444. CGS Gustave O. Arlt Award in the Humanities Council of Graduate Schools Gustave O. Arlt Award in the Humanities Field of Competition: The Arts (Art History/Criticism/Conservation and Music) Nominations The CGS Advisory Committee for the Gustave O. Arlt Award in the Humanities requests nominations for the competition in the field of The Arts (Art History/Criticism/ Conservation and Music). Gustave O. Arlt (1895-1986) was the first president of the Council of Graduate Schools, former faculty member and dean of the Graduate School at UCLA, and a scholar of German language and literature. In 1971 he established the award that bears his name to provide recognition, each year, to a young scholar who has written a book that represents an outstanding contribution to scholarship in the humanities. To be eligible for competition, the nominee must meet the criteria stated below. There can be only one nominee from each institution, and nominations are to be submitted by the office of the graduate dean or equivalent institutional officer. The nominator is asked to elaborate in a separate letter upon the scholarly contribution made by the nominee’s book. Three copies of the book must accompany the letter. THE NOMINATED BOOKS WILL NOT BE RETURNED. Nomination Form The nomination form, available on the CGS website, must be completed and submitted electronically (by clicking on the “Submit by Email” button on the form). Criteria The recipient must have received the doctorate within seven years of the award and currently be teaching at a North American university. The recipient must have taken the degree at a North American university. The book being considered must have been published within seven years of the award. The book must have been written in or translated into English. The book must represent an outstanding contribution to scholarship in the field. Deadline Nominations may be made immediately and will be accepted until April, and must be accompanied by three copies of the work. Books that are still in manuscript by April will not be considered. Procedure The Advisory Committee will submit nominations to a panel of scholars in the field. The panel will evaluate publications and recommend a recipient to the Advisory Committee. Award The Award, made at the time of the CGS Annual Meeting, carries a stipend of $1,000, a certificate, and reasonable travel expenses to attend the annual meeting. Address Nomination materials (letter and book) may be submitted immediately but no later than April, to: George McConnell Director of Graduate Programs Bemidji State University 1500 Birchmont Drive NE #48 Memorial Hall 312 Bemidji, MN 56601 The electronic nomination form must be completed and submitted to CGS in April. CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award in the field of Biological and Life Sciences Nominations Each regular member institution of the Council of Graduate Schools may nominate one person in the field of biological and life sciences. The effective date of degree award, or the completion of doctoral degree requirements and dissertation, must fall in the period of July 1 of two years ago to June 30 of this year, inclusive, for each nominee selected. Such degree award or completion is to be confirmed by the institution’s graduate dean or other administrative officer responsible for doctoral degree programs. Materials Each nominee must prepare an abstract (not to exceed 10 pages) of his or her dissertation, typed double-spaced on 8-1/2″ x 11″ white paper. In addition, appendices containing non-textual material, such as charts or tables, may be included. The nominee may also choose to include a brief CV as an appendix. The pages should be numbered, and each should bear the name of the nominee. Letters from three referees selected by the nominee, evaluating the significance and quality of his or her dissertation work, are to be included in the nomination materials. One of these letters is to be from the nominee’s dissertation supervisor, another from a member of the nominee’s dissertation committee, and the third from a person of the nominee’s choice. The institution’s graduate dean or equivalent institutional officer should send electronically the following to the Award Committee: abstract, nomination form, letters of reference, and a cover letter on the graduate school letterhead. Nomination Form The nomination form may be accessed on the CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award webpage. Please complete and submit the form by clicking on the “Submit by email” button on the form. Deadline All materials are to be submitted to the Award Committee electronically no later than July 31 in order to be considered. The subject line for the submission should read Biological and Life Sciences. A small number of finalists will be selected from among the nominees, and the Committee will review their complete dissertations. Award The CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award, consisting of an honorarium of $2,000 and a certificate of citation, will be presented at the annual meeting of the Council of Graduate Schools. Reasonable travel expenses of the recipients will be paid. Only the winner and the graduate dean from the nominating university will be notified prior to early December. Criteria The Council of Graduate Schools will name an Award Committee whose members have established records in the disciplinary areas under consideration. At their discretion, additional consultation may be sought. The nominated dissertations should represent original work making an unusually significant contribution to the disciplines. Both methodological and substantive quality will be judged. The following list, although not all-inclusive, illustrates the field considered as biological and life sciences: biology, botany, zoology, ecology, embryology, entomology, genetics, nutrition, plant pathology, plant physiology, anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics, microbiology, pathology, pharmacology, physiology, and related fields. Also included are agriculture, forestry, and related fields. If the dissertation is multi- or interdisciplinary in nature, at least one of these fields should comprise a significant portion of the work. Address All nomination materials should be sent to cflagg@cgs.nche.edu no later than July. Please note: The CGS/ProQuest Award operates on a two-year cycle in regard to fields of competition. The fields of competition for one year will be social sciences and mathematics/physical sciences/and engineering; for the next, they will be biological/life sciences and humanities/fine arts. CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award in the Humanities/Fine Arts Nominations Each regular member institution of the Council of Graduate Schools may nominate one person for an award in the field of humanities and fine arts. The effective date of degree award, or the completion of doctoral degree requirements and dissertation, must fall in the period of July 1 of two years ago to June 30 of this year, inclusive, for the nominee selected. Such degree award or completion is to be confirmed by the institution’s graduate dean or other administrative officer responsible for doctoral degree programs. Materials Each nominee must prepare an abstract (not to exceed 10 pages) of his or her dissertation, typed double-spaced on 8-1/2″ x 11″ white paper. In addition, appendices containing non-textual material, such as charts or tables, may be included. The nominee may also choose to include a brief CV as an appendix. The pages should be numbered, and each should bear the name of the nominee. Letters from three referees selected by the nominee, evaluating the significance and quality of his or her dissertation work, are to be included in the nomination materials. One of these letters is to be from the nominee’s dissertation supervisor, another from a member of the nominee’s dissertation committee, and the third from a person of the nominee’s choice. The institution’s graduate dean or equivalent institutional officer should send electronically the following to the Award Committee: abstract, nomination form, letters of reference, and a cover letter on the graduate school letterhead. Nomination Form The nomination form may be accessed on the CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award webpage. Please complete and submit the form by clicking on the “Submit my email” button on the form. Deadline All materials are to be submitted to the Award Committee electronically no later than July 31 in order to be considered. The subject line for the submission should read Humanities/Fine Arts. A small number of finalists will be selected from among the nominees, and the Committee will review their complete dissertations. Award The CGS/ProQuest Distinguished Dissertation Award, consisting of an honorarium of $2,000 and a certificate of citation, will be presented at the annual meeting of the Council of Graduate Schools. Reasonable travel expenses of the recipients will be paid. Only the winner and the graduate dean from the nominating university will be notified prior to early December. Criteria The Council of Graduate Schools will name an Award Committee whose members have established records in the disciplinary areas under consideration. At their discretion, additional consultation may be sought. The nominated dissertations should represent original work making an unusually significant contribution to the disciplines. Both methodological and substantive quality will be judged. The following list, although not all-inclusive, illustrates the fields considered as humanities/fine arts: history; philosophy; language; linguistics; literature; archaeology; jurisprudence; the history, theory, and criticism of the arts; ethics; comparative religion; and those aspects of the social sciences that employ historical or philosophical approaches. If the dissertation is multi- or interdisciplinary in nature, at least one of these fields should comprise a significant portion of the work. Address All nomination materials should be sent to cflagg@cgs.nche.edu no later than July. Please note: The CGS/ProQuest Award operates on a two-year cycle in regard to fields of competition. The fields of competition for one year will be social sciences and mathematics/physical sciences/engineering; for the next, biological/life sciences and humanities/fine arts. Presidential Management Fellow Program The Presidential Management Fellow (PMF) Program deadline is in early fall. The application for the Presidential Management Fellows will be available until early fall. (Note that dates are subject to change.) Applicants should carefully read the application process information before submitting because the application and process have changed substantially from previous years. There is now an online assessment that must be completed; recommendation letters and a nomination from the Graduate School are no longer required or accepted as part of the PMF application. The Presidential Management Program attracts to Federal service outstanding men and women from a variety of academic disciplines and career paths who have a clear interest in, and commitment to, excellence in the leadership and management of public policies and programs. The PMF Program, administered by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM), is the Federal Government’s cornerstone succession planning program to help agencies meet their critical need for leadership continuity. Since 1977, the Presidential Management Fellow Program has helped Federal agencies meet their workforce and succession planning needs by attracting outstanding master’s, law, and doctoral-level students to Federal service. More than 80 Federal agencies currently partner with the PMF Program Office to hire Fellows annually. Fellows engage in solving domestic and international issues including, but not limited to, public administration, foreign policy, technology, science, criminal justice, health, and financial management. Lindau Meeting Eligibility A student nominated to participate in this program must: Be a U.S. citizen; Be currently enrolled as a full-time graduate student. Have completed by June at least two academic years of study toward a doctoral degree in medicine/physiology or in a related discipline, but not planning a dissertation/thesis defense before the end of December ORAU requires applicants to enrolled at one of its member institutions ORAU and Mars, Inc. require applicants to be an active researcher who is performing research funded by public or private sources Deadline for submissions is early November. Trudeau Fellowship Eligibility Trudeau fellows are public intellectuals who have demonstrated the capacity to propose creative solutions to important issues. They reach beyond disciplinary boundaries to come up with innovative ideas and they are deeply committed to engaging in public debate. Candidates must be active in the social sciences and humanities and must work in an area related to one or more of the Foundation’s four themes. Candidates must commit to contributing the equivalent of at least one day a week for an academic term to the Foundation’s intellectual leadership. These 15 days of engagement take place during the fellow’s first three years as a fellow. For more information, consult the Engagement and Residency Policy for Regular Trudeau Fellows. Selection Criteria Leadership. Trudeau fellows have spearheaded significant advances in their fields of expertise, whether scientific or creative work. They have demonstrated their leadership by directing research teams, training students, publishing works of reference, or creating seminal artwork. Productivity. Within their discipline or field of activity, Trudeau fellows have made a significant contribution to the development, enrichment, and dissemination of knowledge. Their output is varied and extensive and may include academic publications, public communications, and literary or artistic creations. Reputation. Trudeau fellows are recognized by their peers for their intellectual and moral qualities. They play a front-line role in learned societies and professional associations. They are often asked to comment on current affairs and many of them represent their country at international forums. Communication and involvement. Trudeau fellows are experienced and impassioned communicators who are adept at connecting with their peers, the public, and the media. They are committed to participating in interdisciplinary dialogue to fuel their thinking and the work of others, and their communication skills enrich public debate. Trudeau project. Trudeau fellows produce a Trudeau project during their first three years with the Foundation. The project is an initiative that is in line with one or more of the Foundation’s four themes and that engages the Trudeau community of mentors, fellows, and scholars. Examples of projects are an international workshop in the fellow’s area of work; the edition of a collection of papers authored in part by members of the Trudeau community; and a Bellagio-type working group that tackles a particular policy problem. This list is not exhaustive: fellowship candidates may propose any form of project that would draw on the richness of the Trudeau community to address what they see as a compelling lack in knowledge. Selection Process Trudeau fellows are selected through a rigorous process comprised of the following stages: Approval of the finalists by the Application and Nomination Review Committee Final approval by the Foundation’s Board of Directors Required Documents A detailed project proposal from the candidate, outlining his or her proposal for a Trudeau project (no page length or formatting requirements are imposed) The candidate’s current résumé Three publications, articles, or book chapters written by the candidate (books are not accepted and the Foundation does not return any documents.) Other testimonies or material deemed relevant to the candidate’s nomination, such as articles about the candidate or op-eds written by the candidate Submitting an Application The nomination file may be submitted electronically but the original signed nomination letter must also be sent by mail. Nomination files may be sent to: The Pierre Elliott Trudeau Foundation Trudeau Fellowship Nominations 1980 Sherbrooke Street West Suite 600 Montreal, Quebec H3H 1E8 Canada fellowship@trudeaufoundation.ca Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022