Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Spotlight: Abby Kelly Spring Clean Your House, Spring Clean Your Mind Julia Escobar Villegas: Language is a Bridge, Peace is a River Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Faculty/Staff » Graduate Handbook » Maintaining Graduate Student Status » Maintaining Immigration Status Set Navigation title in component Graduate Handbook Maintaining Graduate Student Status Maintaining Immigration Status Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Time to Degree Extensions Reinstatements Readmission Leaves of Absence Withdrawal or Dismissal Admissions Admissions Categories Application Process Submitting Application Materials Student Status Prior to Receipt of Official Transcript(s) Application Fees Application to 4+1 Degree Programs Application to AIM Programs Application to Multiple Programs Application Expiration Program Application Deadline Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission Official Transcripts for Applicants with Degrees Received in China English Proficiency Requirement OEPT Compulsory Health Screening International Students, General Information Financial Support Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships TA Requirements Purchasing UC Insurance GSHI Award Multiple Appointments, Employment Summer Employment Jury Duty Strike Policy Sick Leave, Family Leave Holidays, UC Closing Policy Military Duty Termination Workers’ Compensation Unemployment Social Security, Medicare Tax, OPERS University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Advanced Standing Transfer Credit Course Exemption Multiple Degree Exemptions GCCC Classes Grad Credit for Undergrad Students 6000-Level Courses Grading Final Exams Make-up Final Exams Grade Reports Repeated Research Courses Pass/Fail Grades Grade Changes NO Grade Replacements Master's Degree Policies and Procedures Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Certify Online Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance Program Approval Process New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Committee Schedule Graduate Leadership Group Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Mentoring Award Award Winners Support for Editors Previous Recipients International Students: Maintaining Immigration Status The student has responsibility for maintaining their immigration status. Key information on maintaining immigration status is listed below. Full information is available in the International Student Handbook. To maintain immigration status, international students must: 1. Maintain full-time enrollment and normal progress toward their degree. An international student must be registered for 10 hours of graduate coursework leading to a specific graduate degree during each consecutive semester of an academic year, excluding summer, in order to meet federal requirements to maintain immigration status. Once an international student has completed all course work and is working on his/her thesis or dissertation, he/she must register for at least one research credit each academic year to retain proper university and immigration status. Such students must submit a Reduced Course Load Certification Form to UC International Services upon completion of all required course work. 2. Work no more than 20 hours per week on campus. An international student is permitted to engage in on-campus employment only and is limited to working no more than 20 hours per week while school is in session. Working more than 20 hours per week is a violation of student status and could lead to any number of penalties, including deportation. During summer and other breaks there is no hourly limitation and students, domestic and international, can work up to 40 hours a week. 3. Obtain extensions of their permission to stay in the U.S., as required. DHS regulations state that a student on an F-1 visa may stay in the U.S. for the duration of an educational program or a series of educational programs (for example, from an undergraduate degree through a master’s degree) plus the duration of optional practical training and then an additional 60 days. However, a student who does not complete the stated education program within the time indicated on his/her I-20 form must request a program extension prior to the completion date. A student who does not request a program extension is out of status and must be reinstated by the DHS. There are laws that severely penalize non-immigrants who violate their status through overstays. Please make sure an I-20 does not expire. A J-1 student may stay in the U.S. for the duration of an educational program or series of educational programs plus the duration of academic training and an additional 30 days. All J-1 students sponsored by the University of Cincinnati must make an appointment with UC International Services in Suite 7148, One Edwards Center prior to the expiration of the DS-2019. A J-1 student sponsored by organizations other than the University of Cincinnati (for example, Fulbright, LASPAU, etc.) must contact his/her sponsoring agency (the organization issuing the DS-2019). 4. Get approval from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or UC International Services to work off campus. An international student is not eligible to work off-campus until he/she has been a full-time student for at least one academic year. At that point, the student may be eligible provided there is a legitimate “academic” or “economic necessity.” The student must make an appointment with an International Services staff member to discuss eligibility. As very few students are approved for off-campus employment by the DHS, it is important that international students have sufficient financial support to fund their entire stay at the University of Cincinnati. A student can work off campus through Curricular Practical Training if the work is an integral part of degree completion. Such employment must be authorized through UC International Services. 5. Maintain a valid passport! Each student’s passport must be valid for a minimum of six months beyond his/her expected date of entry into the U.S. For example, if the student will enter the U.S. on September 1, 2019 his/her passport should be valid until at least March 1, 2020. Renewal applications must be made with the Embassy or Consulate of the country issuing the passport, and a certification of student status from the University of Cincinnati will be required. (This can be obtained from UC International Services.) 6. Notify UC International Services of transfer to another school or a change in educational program. An international student planning to transfer to another school should confer with an adviser in International Services. The new school will require certification of proper student status and eligibility to transfer. UC International Services will need to “release” the student’s SEVIS record to the new school in order to transfer. A transferring student must report to the international office of the new school within 15 days of the beginning of classes to have the transfer processed. Reporting a Change of Address An international student is required to report any address change to the university within 10 days of the change. This includes address changes of any dependents as well. Changing Degree Programs Any time an international student changes majors (such as chemistry to math) or degree levels (such as master’s to doctoral) he/she must obtain a new I-20. No later than the 15th day after starting the new program, the student must obtain a new I-20 from UC International Services. A student must provide evidence of acceptance to the new program and proof of financial support for the new program. Visa Expiration/Renewal This procedure is only necessary when the student intends to travel outside the U.S. and the visa is expired. The visa need not be renewed if the student is traveling in Canada, Mexico, or other contiguous U.S. territories for less than 30 days. A student cannot renew a visa in the U.S.; he/she must visit the American Consulate/Embassy Office in the country he/she is visiting in order to get the renewal date issued. The following documentation is required: a valid passport, a properly executed I-20 or DS2019, proof of financial support, and/or a letter of certification. Traveling Outside the United States An F-1 visa holder needs the following documents to re-enter the U.S. after a temporary absence: 1) page 3 of form I-20 endorsed by International Services, 2) a valid passport and U.S. visa, 3) verification of adequate financial support, and 4) verification of enrollment. Note: A new I-20 is required only if there has been a change in the student's field of study, degree level, in the source or amount of funding, or if all the endorsement lines are complete. Requests for a new I-20 or for a signature on page 3 must be made at least 5 business days before a student's planned departure. A J-1 visa holder needs the following documents to re-enter the U.S. after a temporary absence: 1) a valid DS-2019 (pink copy) endorsed by International Services (or sponsoring agency), 2) a valid passport and U.S. visa, 3) verification of adequate financial support, and 4) verification of enrollment. Note: A new DS-2019 is required if the student's current DS-2019 will expire before he/she plans to re-enter the U.S. or if the program of study, degree level or finances have changed. Requests for a new DS-2019 or for a signature on the pink copy must be made at least 5 business days before the student's planned departure. More information for international students (varying from immigration regulations to cultural issues) can be obtained in the International Student Handbook. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top