Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Services & Resources : Career Resources Career Resources University Resources Texas Career Engagement Texas Career Engagement partners with departments across campus to support graduate students and postdoctoral scholars in their career and professional development. Get HookedIn Join the professional networking platform for UT Austin students and alumni. HireUTexas HireUTexas powered by Handshake is the all-inclusive job board where UT Austin students and alumni can connect with local, national and global employers offering career-oriented opportunities and internships, as well as campus employment, work-study and part-time jobs. Soon, all work-study, campus employment and part-time jobs previously posted in Hire-A-Longhorn will be found in HireUTexas. Career Advising for Graduate Students and Postdoctoral Scholars Texas Career Engagement, the College of Natural Sciences, and the College of Liberal Arts offer individual career advising appointments for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars on a wide range of career-related topics, from self-assessment and decision-making to specific advice on resume, CV, and cover letter preparation for the job search. Academic and Non-Academic Assistance The Intellectual Entrepreneurship program, a cross-disciplinary consortium, offers tools and resources for job applicants. Three Minute Thesis Competition 3MT is an academic competition that challenges master's and doctoral students to describe their research within three minutes to a general audience. External Resources Versatile Ph.D. All UT Austin graduate students are eligible to use the resources of Versatile Ph.D., an online community for non-academic and non-faculty job seekers. Career-Planning Tool for the Sciences Learn how to leverage your expertise into a career through My IDP (Individual Development Plan). Interstride for International Graduate Students Interstride provides a one-stop shop for international students, including visa and immigration information; companies that sponsor employment visas; guidance on intercultural networking; job listings, real-time hiring trends, and employer information; and tailored assessment tools. ETS Writing Mentor The Writing Mentor application provides feedback about your writing to help you to make it convincing, well-developed, coherent, and well-edited! ImaginePhD A free, online career exploration and planning tool for Ph.D. students and postdoctoral scholars in the humanities and social sciences. Intersect Job Simulations InterSECT is an online platform that allows PhD-level scientists and humanists, regardless of professional stage, to explore future career options. The goal is to provide true-to-life job simulation exercises that help individuals explore their career options experientially, so they can better consider their professional interests and skills and how they translate into potential careers. Big Interview - Virtual Mock Interviews Big Interview provides step-by-step video lessons and interview practice tools to help you strengthen your interview skills, whether you’re interviewing for a job or internship. Practice virtual interviewing for opportunities in academia, consulting, nonprofit, engineering, finance and more. Upcoming Events There are no Upcoming Events at this time. Past Events Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022