Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > About > Accreditation Accreditation ABOUT Facilities Program Director & Selected Participating Faculty FAQs The University of Tulsa is a fully accredited national doctoral institution and is on the approved lists of the Higher Learning Commission and the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education. The various colleges and professional schools are accredited by their own professional agencies as well. The Master of Science program in speech-language pathology is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, 2200 Research Boulevard, #310, Rockville, MD 20850, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700. The Ph.D. program in clinical psychology is accredited by the American Psychological Association. The Doctor of Nursing Practice (D.N.P.) programs are approved by the Oklahoma Board of Nursing. The D.N.P. programs are candidates for accreditation by the ACEN. The graduate business programs of the Collins College of Business are accredited by AACSB International (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business). The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences is an institutional member of the American Society for Engineering Education. The TU undergraduate and graduate energy management programs are accredited by the American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL). The Graduate School is a member of the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS), the Conference of Southern Graduate Schools (CSGS), and the Midwestern Association of Graduate Schools (MAGS). Since 1993, the university has also maintained membership in Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU), a consortium of 114 Ph.D.-granting universities and a contractor for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. In addition, the Graduate School participates in a number of university-wide assessment programs, as well as oversees regularly scheduled internal reviews of each graduate program. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT