Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Graduate School of Medical Sciences Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options News Seminars Student Research Thesis Defenses Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Vincent du Vigneaud Annual Research Symposium Newsletter Annual AwardsToggle Annual Awards menu options Alumni Award of Distinction Excellence in Teaching and Mentoring Award Julian R. Rachele Prize Student Service Award Vincent du Vigneaud Symposium Awards WCM Graduate Student Fellowships AdmissionsToggle Admissions menu options Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers AcademicsToggle Academics menu options PhD ProgramsToggle PhD Programs menu options BCMB Allied ProgramToggle BCMB Allied Program menu options Biochemistry & Structural Biology Cell & Developmental Biology Molecular Biology Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems BiologyToggle Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology menu options PBSB Program at Houston Methodist Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Master's ProgramsToggle Master's Programs menu options Health Sciences for Physician AssistantsToggle Health Sciences for Physician Assistants menu options PA Program Certificate Ceremony-Class of 2021 PA Program Matriculation Ceremony Clinical & Translational Investigation Clinical Epidemiology Population Health SciencesToggle Population Health Sciences menu options Biostatistics and Data Science Health Informatics Health Policy and Economics Computational Biology Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Biomedical Imaging Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate ResearchToggle Summer Undergraduate Research menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Engineering Summer Program Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student ExperienceToggle Student Experience menu options Student FormsToggle Student Forms menu options Alumni Contact Information Form Student ServicesToggle Student Services menu options Office of the Registrar Housing Student Government (GSEC) Diversity and InclusionToggle Diversity and Inclusion menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Esprit de Corps Student Clubs and InitiativesToggle Student Clubs and Initiatives menu options Badminton Club (GSEC) Biotech Club Early STEM Outreach Club Hockey Team (GSEC) Science & Education Policy Association (SEPA) Soccer Club (GSEC) Softball Club (GSEC) The Science Communication Club (GSEC) Tri-I Outreach Club (TORC) Volleyball Club (GSEC) WCMC Book Club (GSEC) Yoga Club Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing ResourcesToggle Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources menu options Fellowship Opportunities Meet our fellows Weill Cornell Graduate School Fellowship Award Policies Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Admissions Academics Student Experience Faculty Our Trainees Home Academics PhD Programs PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Pharmacology BCMB Allied Program Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Pharmacology Overview Pharmacology is the science of drugs, their chemical and biochemical properties, and their interactions with live cells, tissues and organisms. In the past 60 years, pharmacology has changed biology and medicine dramatically. Diseases are cured, pain is relieved and formerly fatal illnesses are arrested due to the discoveries made in pharmacology laboratories. Important questions have been answered by basic science, but many remain unsolved. The scientific foundation of the Pharmacology PhD program at Weill Cornell Graduate School trains students in areas of medical sciences, biochemistry, chemical biology, signal pathways and more! The program's mission, facilitated by the broad scope of research conducted by the its faculty, is to provide students with the foundation necessary for pursuing research activities in cancer pharmacology, the neurosciences, cardiovascular pharmacology, toxicology, clinical pharmacology, proteomics, metabolomics, drug design and synthesis, and translational research. The research activities of the program's faculty are broad and include cancer pharmacology, neurobiology, cardiovascular pharmacology, drug metabolism, toxicology, proteomics, receptors and signal transduction, drug and alcohol addiction research, and drug design and synthesis. Some of the research focuses on developing and evaluating novel therapies for a variety of diseases, and several faculty members have clinical involvements at Weill Cornell Medical College (WCMC) or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC). This allows students in the Pharmacology Program to perform research that will result in better or new therapies for serious medical conditions such as cancer, epilepsy, neurodegenerative disorders, addictive and mental health disorders, infectious diseases, pain, and heart disease. Pharmacology students have ample opportunities to improve their scientific communication skills, both by writing research papers and presenting their research data at laboratory meetings, the program's annual retreat and national scientific meetings. The program provides supportive, spirited colleagues along with a collegiality that helps prepare students for productive research careers in academia, government or industry. Additional information is available at the Pharmacology graduate program web site. Related Links Department of Pharmacology, Weill Cornell Medical College Pharmacology | Weill Cornell Medicine Video of Pharmacology | Weill Cornell Medicine Program Requirements Admissions A baccalaureate degree with a strong background in the natural sciences and/or health sciences is required for acceptance into the Pharmacology program. For applicants to the Pharmacology program, GRE scores are optional. If you have GRE scores, please list your GRE scores in the application. Additionally, official scores must be sent directly to the Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences by the Educational Testing Service. The Institution Code Number is 4132. Please visit http://www.ets.org/gre for more information and to register for the test if you would like to add your GRE scores to your application. Applicants whose native language is not English are required to take the TOEFL examination. See Apply Online for application procedures. Becoming a Doctoral Candidate In the first year, students complete the core academic curriculum; in their second year, they complete elective courses. More information about Pharmacology program courses is available at Courses. In addition to coursework, students participate in bi-weekly student-run Pharmacology Journal Clubs, the annual program retreat, and the annual Vincent du Vigneaud Research Day. Students are also required to attend all Pharmacology program seminars and must pass the Pharmacology Seminar Course throughout their tenure as graduate students. Three laboratory rotations are required of each student. The rotations provide the opportunity to participate in the diverse research activities available within the program. This experience is designed to assist the student in selecting major and minor sponsors for his/her thesis research. Each student typically selects a thesis lab and major sponsor (thesis advisor) by the end of the first quarter of the second year. After choosing a thesis lab, the student selects a Special Committee, consisting of the major sponsor and two minor sponsors, chosen from among members of the Graduate School faculty with expertise in the student's thesis research area. The Special Committee meets at least once a year to discuss research progress and future research directions with the student. The Special Committee also serves as the core group of examiners for the student's Admission to Candidacy Exam (ACE) and, typically, their thesis defense examination. The ACE consists of two parts: a uniform written exam and an oral exam, which includes discussion of a written research proposal. A student typically takes this exam by April 1st of his/her second year. The ACE provides an opportunity for the student to demonstrate that he/she has attained the breadth of knowledge required to continue in the PhD program and is prepared to undertake full-time thesis research. When the student passes the ACE, he/she is considered a PhD candidate. PhD Research and Degree After completing the ACE, the student's annual (or more frequent) meetings with the Special Committee provide the forum to review progress and agree upon future research directions. The Special Committee (Thesis Advisory Committee) also oversees development of the thesis. Thesis research is typically completed in the fifth year in the program. While working full-time in the thesis laboratory and developing the thesis, the student continues to participate in Pharmacology Program activities. The culmination of the student's successful progression through the program is the final examination (the "defense") and certification by the Special Committee that the thesis represents an official piece of research that satisfies Graduate School requirements for a PhD degree. Student Stories Pharmacology Corrin Pimentel Through the institutional collaboration between Weill Cornell and Memorial Sloan Kettering, I’m able to conduct my research at MSK surrounded by brilliant scientists. The opportunities are unmatched and the support systems I’ve built has helped me to take advantage of them. Read Full Story... Research Topics Cancer Pharmacology Cardiovascular Pharmacology Cell Signaling and Signal Transduction Chemical Biology Clinical Pharmacology Drug Metabolism Drug Discovery and Development Molecular Imaging/Cancer Diagnostics Immunopharmacology Molecular Pharmacology Molecular Toxicology Neuropharmacology and Neuronal Signaling Renal Pharmacology Radiobiology Stem Cell Pharmacology Faculty An, Heeseon Bachovchin, Daniel Blenis, John Brentjens, Renier Buck, Jochen Chiosis, Gabriela David, Yael Ganesh, Karuna Geri, Jacob Giannakakou, Paraskevi Grimm, Jan Gross, Steven Gudas, Lorraine Guzman, Monica Heller, Daniel Hemmings, Hugh Inturrisi, Charles Jaffrey, Samie Kentsis, Alex Kharas, Michael Kolesnick, Richard Kraus, William Lee, Francis Levi, Roberto Levin, Lonny Lewis, Jason Li, Yueming Lo, James Luo, Minkui Mellinghoff, Ingo Melnick, Ari Nowak, Dawid Pitt, Geoffrey Pleil, Kristen Rosen, Neal Rudin, Charles Sauve, Anthony Scheinberg, David Tan, Derek Toth, Miklos Zhou, Pengbo Zippin, Jonathan Courses Accelerating Bio Venture Innovation (ABI) Critical Analysis of the Scientific Literature in Pharmacology Drug Development: From Molecule to Prescription Essential Principles of Pharmacology Neuropharmacology I: Genes, Drugs and Behavior Neuropharmacology II: Neuropeptides, Pain and Drugs of Abuse Next-Gen Methods For Neuroscience and Pharmacology Pharmacology Seminar Series Principles of Clinical Pharmacology Principles of Pharmacology I: Chemical Biology Principles of Pharmacology II: Signal Transduction Principles of Pharmacology III: Principles and Systems Pharmacology Principles of Pharmacology IV: Cancer Pharmacology Responsible Conduct of Research Leadership Program Co-Chairs Gudas, Lorraine J. Scheinberg, David A. Program Director Blenis, John Program Coordinator Rosales, Aileen Ready to start? Apply now Need more info? Ask a question Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School of Medical Sciences 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 Jump To Top Our Location Graduate School of Medical Sciences Contact Us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 About Us WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and Events Newsletter Annual Awards Admissions Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers Academics PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student Experience Student Forms Student Services Diversity and Inclusion Student Clubs and Initiatives Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance