Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Public Humanities A.M. school Graduate School Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The master's program in Public Humanities offers a dynamic interdisciplinary opportunity for students interested in careers in museums, historical societies, cultural planning agencies, heritage tourism, historic preservation and community arts programs. Admission to this program is paused for the 2022- 2023 academic year. Please fill out the inquiry form for updates regarding this pause and to connect with us about master's study at Brown. The program draws on Brown's Open Curriculum and the wide-ranging resources of Providence's arts and cultural community to connect students to academic and hands-on learning experiences. Additional Resources Students in the public humanities program are encouraged to take courses in departments across the University and at the Rhode Island School of Design. Students are also able to cross-register for classes at Harvard University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. The John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage, home of the M.A. program in public humanities, sponsors many workshops, lecturers, and visitors. Students undertake two practicums (one credited; one uncredited but required) gaining professional experience and the opportunity to reflect on the theory and practice of the field. In recent years, students have found placements at museums, universities, state, city and federal agencies, and archives and libraries. A fellowship for the study of the public history of slavery is available for students in the program who are interested in working in museums and other cultural institutions on issues related to the history and legacy of slavery. Recipients of the fellowship for the study of the public history of slavery receive an award that covers tuition, stipend, and fees for the two years it takes to complete the M.A. in public humanities. Fellowship recipients are selected based on relevant experience in museums and cultural institutions and academic coursework on related topics. Please visit the website for more information about the study of the public history of slavery fellowship. In collaboration with Brown University's Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative (NAISI), the Center for Public Humanities offers a fellowship to graduate students interested in working for, and leading, Native American cultural institutions, archives, libraries or museums. One fully–supported two–year fellowship (includes tuition, fees, and a stipend) is available each year for a student to pursue an M.A. in Public Humanities dedicated to increasing the understanding and maintenance of the cultural traditions and political experiences of Indigenous Peoples. We welcome students coming right from college or those who have already been working in their communities. Please visit the fellowship website for more information about NAISI fellowship. The M.A. program in public humanities participates in City Year's University Partnership. City Year corps members, alumni and current/former staff who are accepted to the public humanities M.A. program are eligible for financial assistance, including a waiver that covers their application. For more information, visit City Year. Completion Requirements Introduction to Public Humanities, Methods in Public Humanities, two practicums, 9 other courses mutually determined by student and graduate advisor, visit the Center's website for detail. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Director of Graduate Studies Leah VanWey Leah_Vanwey@brown.edu Contact and Location John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Mailing Address Brown University Box 1880 publichumanities@brown.edu 401-863-1177 Visit the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Public Humanities Open details for Public Humanities Bookmark this Page