GRAD 360° Home About About GRAD 360° About the Tiger 9 Resources Career Exploration and Planning Tools General Career Resources Tiger 9 Resources Registering for GRAD 360° Events Events Login Graduate Students and Postdocs About GRAD 360° GRAD 360° will provide trainees with a structured way to develop and track their proficiency in the academic, personal, and professional focus areas known as "The Tiger 9." Each trainee's development program can be tailored to meet their unique needs and interests. Trainees can: Identify their interests, skills, and values throughout their Clemson experience; Engage their advisors in holistic advising and mentoring; Acquire and develop specific skills necessary for postgraduate professional practice; and Track their transformation by recording their experience in an online portfolio. Our Mission To create and support unparalleled and high quality academic, personal, and professional development opportunities that enrich the graduate student and postdoctoral scholar experience at Clemson University. Our Values and Principles Guide Our Work GRAD 360° is about building relationships with on-campus and off-campus partners to help trainees take control of their Clemson experience. We value our graduate students and postdoctoral scholars first. We demand excellence and expect commitment. We believe in authentic growth across the academic, personal, and professional aspects of trainees' lives. We envision a critically conscious, compassionate, and just campus community where all trainees harness their holistic skills for dynamic local and global impacts. Student Support Matters The Graduate School plays a critical role in providing the support services necessary to make academic progress possible. This involves engaging trainees in an evidence-based and learner-centered training model that provides them with a variety of learning experiences that augment their programs of study, and that could lead to more competent and confident graduates. Twitter Copyright © GRAD 360° - Clemson Graduate School 2020 GRAD 360° provides content as a service to Clemson University graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. Some GRAD 360° events and content may not be in accord with every trainees’ personal priorities, opinions, or beliefs. A very broad range of topics, content and perspectives is required to serve the professional development needs of every member of our graduate student and postdoctoral scholar populations, diverse in every aspect. The content, views, opinions, and positions expressed by the presenters of GRAD 360° events are their own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Graduate School, Clemson University, or any of its units or employees.