Skip to content Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. Toggle navigation Graduate Studies About Tech Why Choose Tech Contact Us Diversity & Accessibility Visit Tech Academics & Research Degree Programs Colleges & Schools Professional Education Theses and Dissertations Research Resources Cost & Funding Cost & Fees Paying for Grad School Admissions Preparing Your Application Apply BS/MS Program Form International Applicants 62 or Older Program Student Information New Students Student Life International Students Professional Development Graduate Experience Survey Commencement News & Events Grad Buzz e-Newsletter News Events FAQ Faculty & Staff Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Tech Campus Visit and Tour The best way to imagine yourself at Georgia Tech is experience it for yourself. The Institute is one of the Most Innovative Schools in the U.S. located in a city ranked #3 Best to Start a Career. While on campus, you can check out Tech’s Library Renewal Project designed for the 21st century scholar or the Van Leer Interdisciplinary Design Commons, which is the largest electronics-oriented student makerspace in the country. Afterward, you can make your way by foot or trolley to the heart of our authentic and vibrant Midtown neighborhood where Tech Square connects the technological advances on campus to the Atlanta business and entrepreneurial community. Explore this walkable urban environment to see why we are ranked as the #1 City for the Availability of Internships and the #4 Most Fun City. We invite you to come and gain insight into Georgia’s top economic and research powerhouse where your skills and knowledge will be used to find answers to some of society's most challenging questions. If you are a representative from a school or an organization interested in scheduling a visit for your student group, please send an email to grad.ask@grad.gatech.edu, with more details about your group and visit needs. To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Plan Your Visit Directions/Parking Lodging Disability Accommodations Schedule Your Visit Experience Tech by attending one of our campus information sessions. Click here for details. Virtual Tour Can't make it to our Atlanta campus for a visit? Take a virtual tour. Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Facebook YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login