Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Graduate College Main Menu In this section Prospective Students Student Services Financing Your Graduate Education International Students Admissions Request Information Application Process Apply Programs Master's & Doctoral Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Online Programs Professional Development About the Program Events Graduate Student Success Center Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Best Practices About Us About the Graduate College Meet the Staff Grad Ambassadors Graduate College Application Process Application Process Graduate ApplicationAll graduate applications begin here. Please complete your application by following these steps: Create a new account Complete the application Submit required support documents Pay the application fee *Please note, Chrome is the preferred Web browser to submit your application. Start my application Returning User? To update your application or check your admission status, use the email and password you created when you first applied. LOG IN TO THE APPLICATION PORTAL Information You Will Need to Apply: Check List Your name exactly as it appears on official documents, e.g., transcripts, GRE reports, passports Your email, correspondence (postal or mailing) and current (physical) address The name of the graduate program to which you'd like to submit an application (see listing of graduate programs) The semester you intend to begin your graduate studies Your academic history: name(s) and attendance dates (month/year) of all universities and colleges attended and the degrees you have been or will be awarded Electronic file(s) for bachelor’s degree(s) conferred or pending and for any graduate or professional coursework or degrees for upload Some programs will require: official transcripts for all college-level courses and degrees letters of recommendation (need current email address for your references) standardized test scores, such as the GRE or GMAT (Due to COVID-19, some graduate programs are temporarily waiving test score requirements. Please check with your program.) additional materials such as statements of purpose or goals, writing samples or a vita For applicants whose native language is not English, you may be required to submit TOEFL, IELTS or PTE test scores (see if you are required to submit a TOEFL or IELTS score) Credit card information for application payment You may save your application at any stage and return to complete it at a later time. Transcripts All applicants, including OSU students, must upload a copy of their transcript for bachelor’s degree(s) conferred or pending and for any graduate or professional coursework or degrees. Submitting your application without transcripts will delay review of your application. If you do not have a copy of your transcript(s), please obtain and upload these prior to finalizing your application. Please do not email or send copies of your transcripts to the Graduate College. Test Scores Each program determines their own admission requirements, and some include the submission of a test score such as GRE, GMAT, or MAT as part of those requirements. Prospective students should contact their progam of interest if they have a question about if an admissions test is required prior to investing in the cost of the test. GRE Scores If the GRE is required by the program you are applying to, OSU's GRE institution code is 6546. No department code is required. All GRE scores are received electronically and shared with any program to which you apply. Letters of Recommendation The graduate program you are applying to may require two to four letters of recommendation. You should contact references prior to beginning your application and obtain their current and preferred email address. Correct entry of email addresses for your references is required for completing and submitting your application Application Fees The application fee information is listed below: $50 for US citizens or permanent resident $75 for international applicants $25 for US citizens or permanent resident card holders (non-degree seeking applications) Once submitted, the application fee is non-refundable and non-transferrable Payment is made in the application system using an electronic check or credit/debit card. Checks or money orders mailed to our office are not acceptable. Application Fee Waivers OSU Alum Application Fee Waiver The OSU Graduate College has an application fee waiver program? As an OSU student or alum, you qualify for a single application fee waiver for admission $25-75 value depending on degree and residency statuses. Military /Veteran Application Fee Waiver (Effective starting Spring of 2023) If you are a current member or veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces, National Guard, or Reserves, you are eligible for a waiver of the graduate application fee. To receive this waiver, you’ll be asked to include with your application one of the following forms of documentation: a copy of your active duty orders, DD214. Other forms of documentation may be possible; please contact us by email at grad-i@okstate.edu or by telephone at (405) 744-6368 if you have any questions. Application Deadlines: To facilitate timely review of your application and ensure your application receives full consideration, please submit your complete application at least 30 days prior (for domestic) or at least 90 days prior (for international) prior to the program’s deadline to allow sufficient time for your letter of recommendation writers to submit their letters on your behalf. Applicants who submit their application without all required materials should be aware their application cannot be reviewed until it is complete. First check you programs website to see if your program has an application deadline. If your program does not have a deadline or preferred date listed, then your application must be complete with transcripts, other required materials and letters of recommendation present by February 1st for full consideration for a fall semester admission, July 1st for spring semester admission or January 1st for summer session admission. However, in some special cases programs will make exceptions to these deadlines. The most complete and up-to-date status of your submitted application can be viewed by logging into your account (click here) and viewing the checklist on your dashboard. Use this portal to check your application status (phone calls and emails to the Graduate College to check the status of your application will delay our processing of applications). International Applicants Evidence of English proficiency and a Financial Guarantee (Confirmation of Financial Resources) is required for applicants expecting to be F1 or J1 visa holders prior to our being able to send an I-20 or DS-2019 to applicants offered admission. English Proficiency for Admission Applicants who have or will have completed a baccalaureate or graduate degree from a college or university where English is the primary teaching language, and which is located in a country where English is a primary language, are not required to submit a TOEFL, IELTS or Pearson test (PTE) score. Applicants for whom English is a second language are required to demonstrate an acceptable level of spoken English usually by submitting a TOEFL, IELTS or PTE score. A TOEFL score of 79 (internet based test) 550 (paper based test) is required. The TOEFL institution code for OSU is 6546. Alternatively, an official IELTS or PTE can be accepted. A minimum IELTS score of 6.5 or a PTE score of 53 will satisfy the English proficiency requirements for admission to a graduate program. Exams must have been taken within the last two years. Some departments require a score above the minimum 79/550 on the TOEFL, 6.5 on the IELTS or 53 on the PTE. Different test scores are required to demonstrate English proficiency for employment as at graduate teaching assistant. Applicants who do not have a qualifying test score for full admission may be eligible for conditional admission and be able to attend the OSU English Language Institute (ELI) prior to starting their graduate program. Financial Guarantee Your application can be reviewed without uploading a Financial Guarantee. However, if you are offered admission, then not uploading a financial guarantee to your application for submission with your application will delay issuance of an I-20 or DS-2019. To upload your Financial Guarantee with your application, complete the Financial Guarantee form along with obtaining the necessary other required documents listed on the form, save these as pdf, .doc, .docx, .rtf, .txt documents, and upload the form and required documents to your dashboard. FAQs Provided are the most common questions related to Graduate College admissions. Contact the Graduate College For additional information or questions please contact the Graduate College. Graduate College Back To Top Back To Top Graduate College Request Information Graduate College 202 Whitehurst Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) 405-744-6368 | Email the Graduate College Follow US Research NewsReport a Broken LinkCalendarUniversity Resources Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©