Skip to content myGradSchool About Us Dean of the Graduate School PhD Program Characteristics Graduate Events Prospective Students Graduate Degrees awarded at USC Current Students Fellowships Guidelines and Forms Student Resources Thesis & Dissertation Submission Required Documents Submission Deadlines Guidelines to Submission Manuscript Formatting Guidelines Faculty & Staff Guidelines and Forms Fellowships Fellowships for PhD Students Scholarships for Masters Students FAQ Diversity Academic Support, Professional Development and Diversity Inclusion Programs Search for... Navigation Menu myGradSchool Navigation Menu About Us Dean of the Graduate School PhD Program Characteristics Graduate Events Prospective Students Graduate Degrees awarded at USC Current Students Fellowships Guidelines and Forms Student Resources Thesis & Dissertation Submission Required Documents Submission Deadlines Guidelines to Submission Manuscript Formatting Guidelines Faculty & Staff Guidelines and Forms Fellowships Fellowships for PhD Students Scholarships for Masters Students FAQ Diversity Academic Support, Professional Development and Diversity Inclusion Programs Home Page Welcome to USC Graduate School Our mission is to celebrate graduate student achievements, and to provide leadership in the establishment and communication of policies, standards and processes related to graduate education at USC Learn more about us Our Services Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion THESIS & DISSERTATION SUBMISSION Attention Required Documents Submission Deadlines Guidelines to Submission Manuscript Formatting Guidelines For our graduate students Student Resources Find student resources Graduate Research Opportunities Find opportunities Fellowships & Awards PhD STUDENTS MASTER’S AND PROFESSIONAL DOCTORATE STUDENTS The USC Graduate School funds thousands of domestic and international students annually. PhD students at USC are supported by fellowships, teaching assistantships, research assistantships, or a combination of these funding sources. The recipients of Graduate School fellowships are selected from an application pool containing some of the most highly recruited students in the world. Learn about fellowships Graduate School, Office of Academic Programs University of Southern California 3601 Trousdale Parkway, Student Union 301 Los Angeles, CA 90089-0894 Phone: (213) 740-9033 General Inquires: gradsch@usc.edu Thesis and Dissertation Submission: thesisdc@usc.edu Office Hours Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Admission Graduate Admissions Website Admission Inquiries Quick Links myGradSchool Guidelines and Forms Search the site Search for... © 2022 University of Southern California | Content Managed by The Graduate School | Website issues? Contact USC Provost IT Built using Neve | Powered by WordPress| Privacy Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination