Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Federal Student Aid Breadcrumb Home Types of Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Federal Student Aid Recommended Filing Dates for Loans Supplemental Requirements for Graduate Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Federal Student Aid Federal loans are available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. All graduate students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents can apply for federal funding, most commonly in the form of Federal Direct Unsubsidized and Federal Graduate PLUS loans. Any graduate student enrolled at least half time in a Brown graduate program is eligible to apply for loan borrowing to help manage education related tuition or living costs that exceed funding/resources. Graduate student loan eligibility and processing is administered by Brown University’s Office of Financial Aid (OFA) with the Loan Office. After your initial eligibility is determined and you have completed the initial application process, the Loan Office would assist you with any additional loan requirements. Completing the FAFSA To apply, you must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). You will complete the FAFSA for each academic year you will be enrolled at Brown. To be sure the Office of Financial Aid receives your FAFSA for federal aid consideration: Review the recommended loan filing dates based on the initial billing date of your program. Complete the FAFSA that matches your academic aid year enrollment (e.g. 2021-22 FAFSA if the program starts in September 2021 and ends May 2022). List Brown University’s graduate Federal School Code of E00058. (Do not include the undergraduate Federal School Code of 003401.) The federal government requires that each institution's financial aid office verify the information, from a selection of students receiving need-based federal aid, reported on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). While the majority of federal funding for graduate students is not need-based, which is exempt from the federal verification process, our office may still be required to complete this secondary review. If your FAFSA is selected for verification and our office is required to complete this process, our staff will notify you via email of any additional requirements. Federal Direct Graduate Unsubsidized Loan Most eligible to borrow up to $20,500, or $33,000/yr if in an eligible School of Public Health degree 5.28% fixed interest rate for 2021-22 academic year For terms, conditions and detail about loan repayment, visit studentaid.gov The Brown Loan Office’s Federal Student Loan page offers guidance about borrowing decisions, loan requirements, and the loan process Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Application process on the Brown Loan Office’s PLUS Loan Application page, includes FAFSA and credit history review Eligible to borrow up to your program’s annual Cost of Attendance 6.28% fixed interest rate for 2021-22 academic year For terms, conditions and detail about loan repayment, visit studentaid.gov The Brown Loan Office’s Federal Student Loan page offers guidance about borrowing decisions, loan requirements, and the loan process Notification Graduate school applicants typically receive information on their eligibility for financial aid from their program within their admission acceptance notification. Some departments may send a separate notification regarding your specific financial aid, but there is not a standard award letter. If you have already been admitted to Brown and chosen to enroll, any initial federal loan eligibility will be automatically posted to your account once a FAFSA has been submitted. Students are notified via their Brown email account that their federal loan is ready to be reviewed. All graduate students who have matriculated and completed a FAFSA receive notification in late April. Any students who enroll or complete the FAFSA after that time should expect notification within three to five business days. Recommended Filing Dates for Loans Some graduate programs have their own Department Financial Aid Application and/or deadlines. Check your Department or Program website to be sure of any exact filing dates. Learn More Loan Eligibility Appeals If you wish to appeal your departmental funding or have special financial circumstances, we suggest contacting your program directly. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Federal Student Aid Open details for Federal Student Aid Bookmark this Page