Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Latin American Studies Academic Year: 2021-22 Affiliated Departments: African American Studies Anthropology Architecture Art and Archaeology Chemical and Biological Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Classics Comparative Literature Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Economics Electrical and Computer Engineering English French and Italian History Mathematics Operations Research and Financial Engineering Politics Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Religion Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Address: Aaron Burr Hall Phone: 609-258-4148 Website: Program in Latin American Studies Program offerings: Certificate Director of Graduate Studies Maria Gabriela Nouzeilles Graduate Program Administrator Eneida Toner Overview The Graduate Certificate in Latin American Studies is open to all Princeton University graduate students currently enrolled in any Ph.D. program who are able to meet the requirements of the program. Students enrolled in the Master in Public Affairs Degree Program at the the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs may also enroll in the certificate program if they write a research paper on a Latin American topic in consultation with the program director. The graduate certificate is designed to allow students who are taking seminars in the program, working closely with our faculty, and writing dissertations on a Latin American topic to receive a formal credential in the field. Many such students prepare a generals field in Latin America, but that is not a requirement for the certificate. Upon fulfilling all of the requirements, a student will receive a certificate from the Program in Latin American Studies and is entitled to list the credential on his or her curriculum vitae. The certificate does not appear on a student’s official transcript. The director of the Program in Latin American Studies oversees the graduate certificate program. Students cannot be admitted to Princeton University through the Latin American Studies graduate certificate program since it is not a degree program. Certificate Certificate Requirements: Courses: Students should complete at least four full-term approved graduate courses on a Latin American topic or substitutes approved by the program director. At least one course should be outside the student’s home department. In addition, the program director may approve other graduate courses, on a case-by-case basis, for which the student has written a final paper focusing on a Latin American topic. Students enrolled in the graduate certificate program are encouraged to participate in the program’s Graduate Works-in-Progress series during their course of study, and do at least one presentation on their dissertation research to an audience of faculty and graduate students to receive feedback. PLAS also encourages students to attend and organize scholarly events sponsored by the program. Language(s): Advanced proficiency in Spanish, Portuguese, or French (for students working on the Caribbean). Students can satisfy this requirement by completing a course taught in Spanish, Portuguese, or French. Dissertation and FPO: Ph.D. students are expected to either 1) write a dissertation on a Latin American topic, or 2) write a dissertation that includes significant research on Latin America. Normally the dissertation should be directed by a faculty member affiliated with the program. Faculty Director Gabriela Nouzeilles Executive Committee João Biehl, Anthropology Vera S. Candiani, History Beatriz Colomina, Architecture Javier E. Guerrero, Spanish & Portuguese Douglas S. Massey, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Gabriela Nouzeilles, Spanish & Portuguese Christina P. Riehl, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Deborah J. Yashar, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Associated Faculty Jeremy I. Adelman, History José L. Avalos, Chemical and Biological Eng Natalia Castro Picón, Spanish & Portuguese Matias D. Cattaneo, Oper Res and Financial Eng Miguel A. Centeno, Sociology Fernando Codá Marques, Mathematics Susana Draper, Comparative Literature Pablo D. Fajgelbaum, Economics Patricia Fernández-Kelly, Sociology Agustin Fuentes, Anthropology Thomas Fujiwara, Economics Rubén Gallo, Spanish & Portuguese Mario I. Gandelsonas, Architecture Filiz Garip, Sociology Maria E. Garlock, Civil and Environmental Eng Hanna Garth, Anthropology Reena N. Goldthree, African American Studies Dannelle Gutarra Cordero, African American Studies Bryan R. Just, Art Museum Thomas D. Kaufmann, Art and Archaeology Christina H. Lee, Spanish & Portuguese Christina León, English John B. Londregan, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Hendrik Lorenz, Philosophy Rosina A. Lozano, History Pedro Meira Monteiro, Spanish & Portuguese Andrés Monroy-Hernández, Computer Science Christopher A. Neilson, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Stephen W. Pacala, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Dan-El Padilla Peralta, Classics Pamela A. Patton, Art and Archaeology Grigore Pop-Eleches, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Rachel L. Price, Spanish & Portuguese Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Electrical & Comp Engineering Maria Micaela Sviatschi, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Rocío Titiunik, Politics Guadalupe Tuñón, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Sits with Committee Fernando E. Acosta-Rodriguez Lecturer Trent Dwight Barnes Amelia Frank-Vitale Alberto E. Morales Marian A. Thorpe Tony Wood Visiting Lecturer Rita L. Segato For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Courses Permanent Courses Courses listed below are graduate-level courses that have been approved by the program’s faculty as well as the Curriculum Subcommittee of the Faculty Committee on the Graduate School as permanent course offerings. Permanent courses may be offered by the department or program on an ongoing basis, depending on curricular needs, scheduling requirements, and student interest. Not listed below are undergraduate courses and one-time-only graduate courses, which may be found for a specific term through the Registrar’s website. Also not listed are graduate-level independent reading and research courses, which may be approved by the Graduate School for individual students. ARC 571 Research in Architecture (also ART 581 / MOD 573 / LAS 571 ) A research seminar in selected areas of aesthetics, art criticism, and architectural theory from the 18th to the 20th centuries on the notion of representation in art and architecture. This seminar is given to students in the doctoral program at the School of Architecture and to doctoral candidates in other departments. ART 515 Decolonizing Art History (also HUM 515 / LAS 515 ) Art history's disciplinary origins are inextricable from European colonialism and imperialism, and often work to uphold racialized concepts of development, civilization, style. The contemporary practice of art history demands that we acknowledge these origins while imagining a decolonized art history for the present. Drawing from decolonial paradigms, recent scholarship, and foundational texts of critical race studies, we work to analyze and actively reconfigure conventions of field formation, research, and format. In keeping with the political imperative of praxis, students workshop research topics and problems individually and collectively. ENG 555 American Literary Traditions (also GSS 555 / LAS 505 ) A study of selected major American writers in the context of intellectual, religious, and cultural traditions. FRE 504 Slavery and Capitalism (also LAS 504 / AAS 503 ) This class initiates a reading of Marx's classic critique of political economy, Capital, along with a selection of the principal philosophical readings of the mature Marx since the 1960s: Louis Althusser's Reading Capital, Michel Henry's Marx, and Moishe Postone's Time, Labor, and Social Domination. Emphasis is placed upon developing a categorial understanding of Marx's conceptual apparatus adequate to the contemporary context, in the wake of the collapse of actually-existing Socialism, industrialization, and the crisis of valorization in the Twenty-First century. HIS 504 Colonial Latin America to 1810 (also LAS 524 ) An examination of selected subjects in early Latin American history from the apogees of the great Amerindian civilizations, through the years of Spanish and Portuguese imperial control to the rebellions preceding independence. The course emphasizes social and cultural change, explores developments in historiography, and treats a variety of major problems in the field. HIS 506 Modern Latin American History Since 1810 (also LAS 526 ) This course covers some of the major themes in Latin American historiography. It centers on the formation and contestation of different levels of community, from the local to the national, and gives additional consideration to Latin America's integration into global economic and political processes. HUM 597 Humanistic Perspectives on History and Society (also ARC 597 / LAS 597 / SPA 557 / MOD 597 ) In this seminar we locate Spinoza and the Tractatus Theologico-Politicus (1670) in the exciting currents of seventeenth-century philosophy, theology, biblical scholarship and exegesis. Resituating Spinoza in Golden Age Holland we examine the resources and relevant controversies that shaped the Tractatus, with an eye to common concerns and traditions: the legacies of humanism and Reformation in the Netherlands, for instance, the larger worlds of his friends, as well as the vibrant Jewish community in Golden Age Amsterdam and the varieties of Christian lay piety that fall broadly under the banner of "the Radical Reformation." POR 562 Luso-Brazilian Seminar (also LAS 562 ) To suit the particular interests of the students and the instructor, an intensive study of a subject chosen from either Portuguese or Brazilian literature, such as the Cancioneiros and the origins of lyric poetry in Galicia and Portugal, the theater of Gil Vicente, Camões and Os Lusiadas, the fiction of Eça de Queiroz, the poetry of Fernando Pessoa, the novel of the Brazilian Northeast, or recent trends in Brazilian poetry, culminating in the concretistas of São Paulo. SPA 547 Narrative Prose in Latin America (also LAS 547 ) Literary and extraliterary contexts of prose fiction in Latin America over the past hundred years through a study of representative writers, including Machado de Assis, Cambaceres, Borges, Onetti, García Márquez, Felisberto Hernández, Rulfo, and Cabrera Infante. SPA 548 Seminar in Modern Spanish-American Literature (also ART 549 / LAS 548 ) An intensive study of intellectuals and nationalism in Latin America and the Caribbean; the Spanish American essay from Rodó to Paz; autobiography and first-person narrative, Martí; and the generation of 1880 in Argentina, the crónica modernista, poesía gauchesca. SPA 556 Slavery, Anti-Slavery, and Post-Slavery in the Iberian Atlantic (also LAS 556 / AAS 554 ) This course introduces students to important texts from the immense body of scholarship on slavery, anti-slavery movements, and post-emancipation culture in the Iberian Atlantic world, focusing primarily on the "slave societies"of 19th-century Cuba and Brazil and their connections to the greater Caribbean. Grounded in historiography, the course includes literature, court documents, visual culture, studies of post-emancipation movements, theories from the black radical tradition, and films about Latin American slavery. Sub-topics include insurrections, autobiography, religion, the role of translators, conucos/provision grounds, fashion. SPA 562 The Cinema of Cruelty (also LAS 542 / HUM 562 ) Drawing on Antonin Artaud's ideas around theatre of cruelty and André Bazin's notions of auteur film and its subversive capacity, this course looks at a group of Latin American and Spanish films and directors to explore how cruelty has become a recognizable aesthetic, one with strategic relevance for Hispanic film. This seminar understands film as a text in which cruelty functions as a cinematic trope, and also reflects on spectatorship, film's ability to inflict pain and, even more, the possibility that film constitutes a modern spectacle of cruelty. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University