Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Services & Resources : Campus Services Campus Services Graduate students at The University of Texas at Austin have numerous resources available to assist them with their academic and personal lives. From the resources and services highlighted below to counseling and mental health services, health and wellness and childcare, find out how we can help. Research Resources The Office of the Vice President for Research supports research at all levels at the university. Look for opportunities, researchers and resources. Read More Graduate Student Writing Services The University Writing Center provides free writing support for UT graduate students in all departments. The UWC's services include individual consultations, writing groups, events, presentations, and online resources. Read More Teaching Development and Support The Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL), provides opportunities to advance graduate students’ pedagogical, academic, and professional progress. Read More UT Libraries Explore the nation’s fifth-largest academic library system. Read More Service Offices Dean of Students Office The Dean of Students Office provides support services along with opportunities for leadership experience and specialized programming and resources. Disability Services The university is committed to maintaining an inclusive and accessible campus community, with multiple units dedicated to this effort. Division of Diversity & Community Engagement DDCE is the university’s chief resource for achieving academic diversity, campus diversity and community engagement. Information Technology Services From ID cards and email to software and computer labs, ITS serves Helpful Links Campus Sports UT Austin boasts one of the premier athletic programs in the United States. Austin Life You’ll never get bored in Austin. See what the city has to offer. Campus Safety Learn about safety and security on campus. Emergency Information Find up-to-date info about campus alerts, emergencies and closings. Find a Researcher or Facilities Use Influuent to find experts or to access descriptions of researchers and their output and facilities. Search Influuent Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022