Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Academics : Academic & Registration Policies Academic & Registration Policies As a graduate student at The University of Texas at Austin, it is important that you conduct yourself and your studies in a manner that aligns with the university’s Honor Code and its standard of academic integrity. In addition, you must comply with university policy as defined here and in the Graduate and General Information catalogs, the Handbook of Operating Procedures, and elsewhere. Academic Policies Full-Time Student Status Find out what you need to do to maintain full-time graduate student status. Grades & Credit The university has standard procedures for assessment of performance and awarding of credit for coursework. Leaves of Absence Sometimes, students need to pause their graduate study. Transfer Credit Procedures for a master’s student seeking to use coursework completed at another institution. Key Dates Keep track of important dates for graduate students. Posthumous Graduate Degrees The Graduate School's process for awarding posthumous graduate degrees. Grievances Graduate students have the right to seek redress of any grievance related to academic or nonacademic matters. Registration Policies Adding & Dropping Courses You must follow procedures and act by certain deadlines to add or drop a class. Registration Procedures Learn how to register for classes. Late Registration Sometimes, students need to register past the regular deadline. Withdrawals Learn how to withdraw from a class or a program of study. International Independent Study & Research Review procedures for engaging in international independent study and research. International Travel Policies Review policies governing all UT-related international travel. Questions Questions about Graduate School policies related to registration or the academic records of graduate students may be sent to Julie Meyer or Diana Larkin. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022