Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Academics : Research Research From classroom projects to the final thesis, report, dissertation or treatise, graduate students are involved in research. Campus Research Units & Centers The University of Texas at Austin supports cutting-edge research in all disciplines, offering more than 200 dedicated research units and centers. Read More Off-Campus Research Sites In addition to the many research centers, groups, laboratories and services on our main campus, The University of Texas at Austin has state-of-the-art facilities spread across the city and state. Read More Office of Research Support The Office of Research Support ensures that all research conducted on campus complies with all applicable laws, regulations and university policies. Read More Office of Sponsored Projects The Office of Sponsored Projects serves as the coordinating office for externally funded research and sponsored projects, assisting faculty and professional research staff in their efforts to secure and ensure proper stewardship of external funding. Read More Department of Statistics & Data Sciences Get answers to your questions. This office offers students, faculty and staff free statistics consulting. Read More Present your Ph.D. Thesis to a 12 Year-Old Project The Graduate School at The University of Texas at Austin recognizes the importance of supporting graduate students' outreach efforts. The 'Present your Ph.D. Thesis to a 12 year-old' project is one example of graduate students making an extraordinary impact on society. Read story Quick Links Statement of Research with Human Subjects Statement of Research in Restricted Regions iThenticate A plagiarism detection software designed to not only ensure manuscripts are properly cited, but to also help manage workflow as documents are being reviewed and revised by supervisors and co-authors. Find out more. Ethics Training Students should be aware of the ethical standards they are expected to uphold during their graduate studies. Ethics training is required of students employed in an academic capacity on campus—teaching assistants, research assistants, assistant instructors and others. In addition to the guidelines of academic integrity offered by the university, there are those imposed by your chosen profession. For example, data fabrication is one of the most serious forms of ethical and scientific misconduct. Creating data to suit the intended results of a study violates the academic integrity of a society of researchers and being associated with a project that used unethical practices may affect your reputation as a professional. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022