Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Admissions Prepare Transcript Requirements Transcript Requirements Requirements for All Applicants Additional Requirements for Applicants with International Credentials Requirements for Admitted Students (only applicable AFTER you are admitted) All Applicants All applicants must have received—or be on track to receive before matriculation as a graduate student—a baccalaureate degree from a college or university of recognized standing. For students with international credentials, an equivalent international degree is required. Transcripts are required for every college or university you have attended. Please inform your prospective graduate field if your name on any of your credentials will be different from the one noted on your application. The online application requires you to upload an unofficial copy of each official transcript. To prepare your transcripts, follow the steps below: Do not upload transcripts that include a U.S. Social Security Number (SSN). Redact, cross out, or cover your SSN, if applicable, before scanning the document. The online application will not accept or properly display encrypted or password-protected documents. Official electronic transcripts (e-transcripts) must be printed first, then scanned and uploaded. Scan or save each transcript (and the English translation, if applicable) as a PDF, TIFF, JPEG, or GIF file. Combine multiple pages from the same transcript into one file; the file size for each upload cannot exceed 10MB. Ensure each scanned or saved image is clear and easy to read before submitting your application. Admitted students are required to submit official electronic transcripts (e-transcripts) directly to the Graduate School Admissions Office after accepting the offer of admission and before the end of their first semester at Cornell. Please see below for additional details. Applicants with International Credentials — Additional Requirements In addition to transcripts, applicants with international credentials must also provide a certified copy of the diploma and/or degree certificate for any conferred degree. All academic records must be official documents issued by the college or university and provided in the original language. A certified or notarized English translation must accompany the academic records if the original language is not English. A complete set of academic records should include the name of the degree program in which you were enrolled, your dates of attendance, a list of courses taken each year, grades received in each course, and the date your degree was conferred (if applicable). Combine multiple pages from the same set of academic records into one file; the file size for each upload cannot exceed 10MB. Admitted students are required to submit official electronic transcripts (e-transcripts) directly to the Graduate School Admissions Office after accepting the offer of admission and before the end of their first semester at Cornell. Please see below for additional details. Admitted Students This section is only applicable to admitted students who have accepted an offer of admission from Cornell. Before the end of your first semester at Cornell, you must submit an official, final transcript of your undergraduate degree, with the degree marked as conferred or awarded, to the Graduate School Admissions Office. Submit your documents earlier to avoid processing delays. If you earned your undergraduate degree from Cornell University, you do not need to submit an official transcript. The Graduate School Admissions Office requires its own official copy of your documents. Any transcripts or other academic records that you submitted with your application, or sent directly to your admitting program, will not fulfill the final transcript requirement. If you earned your undergraduate degree at an institution outside the U.S., you must provide the transcript, a certified copy of your diploma and/or degree certificate, and a certified translation of all documents if they are not already in English. Any documents sent to the Graduate School Admissions Office will become the property of the university and physical copies will not be retained. Electronic submission is required Transcripts and other required academic records must be delivered to Cornell electronically by your institution or a credential verification service. We do not accept transcripts directly from students. Preferred providers include: CertiFile through ApplyWeb (recommended, see below) World Education Services (Course-by-Course ICAP only) Parchment National Student Clearinghouse* Any NACES member credential evaluation service We also accept transcripts that have been certified and uploaded directly to your application by Fulbright, IIE, Laspau, or Amideast, or were submitted through SOPHAS, HAMPCAS, VMCAS, or LSAC. Important Notes: We have download accounts with CertiFile, WES, and Parchment. If you are using another service, please have transcripts or retrieval instructions delivered to gradtranscripts@cornell.edu. *E-transcripts with a retrieval deadline or expiration date should not be submitted to the Graduate School Admissions Office between March 1-June 1. Due to the volume of transcripts we receive and process, we are unable to send a confirmation receipt when we receive your transcript. We will notify you directly if we are missing any documents. If you are having financial or logistical difficulties meeting the final transcript requirement, please contact gradadmissions@cornell.edu right away for assistance. CertiFile What is CertiFile? Is it required? The CertiFile service provides Cornell with verified official transcripts and other required documents and prevents the submission of fraudulent or unsuitable credentials. The documents are delivered directly to our office, you will be notified immediately when they arrive, and there is no expiration date for us to retrieve them. Additionally, your verified credentials will be stored in your Digitary wallet so you can access and share them with employers, recruiters, or other schools whenever you need to. Using CertiFile fully satisfies the Graduate School Admissions Office’s transcript requirements. How much does it cost? Students with international credentials (or a combination of U.S. and international credentials) will pay $190 USD to have them verified, evaluated, and delivered electronically to Cornell. Students with U.S. (domestic) credentials will pay $50 USD to have them verified and delivered electronically to Cornell. How do I place a CertiFile order? When should I start? You can initiate a CertiFile order from your ApplyWeb activity page at any time after accepting your offer of admission. If you are still enrolled in your current degree program, wait until after you graduate to place your order. Please confirm with your school that your degree has been posted before ordering. (An applicant can update an existing order for $65 USD (international) or $25 (domestic).) I already have credentials stored in my Digitary or MyEquals account. What should I do? Initiate a CertiFile order through the Admission Supplement or your ApplyWeb activity page. When prompted, indicate that you want to attach existing academic credentials from your Digitary or MyEquals account, then follow the directions to select the documents you wish to have delivered to Cornell. The CertiFile service will deliver the credentials directly to Cornell on your behalf for free. Who should I contact for help with my order? You can find the answers to many of your questions using ApplyWeb’s CertiFile help page. For additional technical assistance, email help@applyweb.com. Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022