Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Graduate School Convocation Graduate School Convocation Eligibility Students who graduated in Summer and Fall 2021 and those who have applied to graduate and completed all their degree requirements for Spring 2022 will receive an email from the Graduate School in March with more details about the event. Only students from the colleges/schools below will receive an email invite. Graduate students from the remaining schools will be invited to their respective College or School’s commencement ceremony. Click here for a list of contacts. College/Schools participating in the Graduate School Convocation: College of Liberal Arts except Economics and Psychology College of Natural Sciences College of Fine Arts except Master of Art in Design Program McCombs School of Business (Doctoral only) Intercollegial Programs Student Check-in On the day of the ceremony, students must check in at the lobby of McCullough Theatre, located on the northeast side of Bass Concert Hall. When you arrive, please have your regalia on. Do not bring hangers or any personal belongings with you. You will not return to where you checked in and there is no where to store it. Masks are recommended. Master's Ceremony: Check-in at 8 a.m. If you arrive after 8:45 a.m.., you will be seated backstage. Doctoral Ceremony: Check-in at 10 a.m. If you arrive after 11:15 a.m., you will be seated backstage. **We only allow graduates to walk across the stage during the ceremony unless assistance is needed and you have an approved accommodation through the Office for Students with Disabilities.** Guests & Tickets *TICKET UPDATE* Students can log back into the Texas Performing Arts ticket page and request additional tickets. Tickets are required for all guests. Master's students will be allotted four (4) tickets and doctoral students will be allotted five (5) tickets. This is based on the number of participants and seats available. All guests need tickets, except for small children that can sit on laps. Graduates and faculty participating in the ceremony do not. All tickets are general admission. After securing tickets, you can forward the email you receive to download tickets to another person or you can log into your online account and transfer each ticket to a specific person's email or phone number. This will prompt the recipient to create an account with Texas Performing Arts and allow guests to accept the tickets. If you choose to transfer tickets via your account, it is suggested that the recipient logs in via a smart phone to download the tickets directly to their device. If you have issues with obtaining tickets, please contact Texas Performing Arts. REQUEST YOUR TICKETS HERE The Ceremony The ceremony on Saturday, May 21, 2022, which takes place in Bass Concert Hall, lasts about two hours and will be streamed live. The master's ceremony will begin at 9 a.m. and the doctoral ceremony will begin at 11:30 a.m. The doctoral ceremony will include hooding of graduates and degree candidates. Parents and guests may enter Bass Concert Hall (Google Map) through the main entrance on 23rd Street, facing Darrell K. Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium. Doors open for guests of each ceremony approximately 45 minutes prior to the start. Masks are recommended. Livestream Link Regalia Regalia is required to participate in convocation and can only be ordered through the University Co-op. Accessibility If you or your guests require wheelchair access or have other special needs, review Bass Concert Hall’s accessibility information. If you need a special accommodation during the Graduate School ceremony or University-wide ceremony, contact Danielle Geraci Thoma. Accommodation requests must be made five business days in advance of Commencement programs. While every effort will be made, the University may be unable to fulfill last-minute requests. Parking Free parking will be available in all  university parking garages as well as on most surface lots. Security Procedures To ensure your visit to campus is safe and enjoyable, the following safety procedures will be in place: Backpacks, totes or other bags larger than 12 inches in any dimension will not be allowed into any of the Commencement and/or Convocation venues. Bags are subject to search by security personnel. Please do not bring any packages that cannot be opened or inspected. Photographs Professional photographs will be taken during the ceremony. The photographer will email students proofs and order forms after the ceremony. Ceremony Saturday, May 21, 2022 Bass Concert Hall Master's Ceremony - 9 a.m. Doctoral Ceremony - 11:30 a.m. Livestream Link University Wide Ceremony Saturday, May 21, 2022 DKR Stadium 7:30 p.m. More information Questions? Contact Danielle Geraci Thoma. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022