Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Egyptology and Assyriology Ph.D. school Graduate School department Egyptology and Assyriology Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown is one of the premier institutions for the study of Egyptology, Assyriology and the history of ancient science. Our Ph.D. students train in the foundational areas of our disciplines: the languages, literatures, history and material culture of Egypt and Mesopotamia in their wider environment. In addition to philology and critical research methods, our students also master the archaeological sequence, art and architecture, and repertoires of material culture found across the ancient Near East and north Africa. Brown's doctoral program in Egyptology and Assyriology offers in–depth disciplinary training that allows our students to pursue focused research in any one of our core fields through three Ph.D. tracks: (1) Assyriology (2) Egyptology, and (3) History of the Exact Sciences in Antiquity. We also encourage creative interdisciplinary work and have close connections with allied programs at Brown, including Ancient History, Anthropology, Classics, Religious Studies, and the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World. The program is dedicated to training professional scholars and effective teachers for a wide variety of educational settings, such as research universities and institutes, museums, and teaching colleges focused on the liberal arts. Additional Resources Substantial departmental funding for graduate students' research; dedicated research space for graduate students; access to strong library facilities and study collections at Brown; colloquium series, postdoc program, and visiting scholars from around the world create a stimulating intellectual environment; teaching and professional development opportunities. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (in intended area of specialization – not to exceed 20 pages). Students selected for preliminary approval will be invited to interview before being accepted into the program. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements All tracks require three years (six semesters) of full–time study consisting of coursework and appointments as a teaching assistant/fellow or proctor; reading competence in two modern research languages (usually German and French); comprehensive exams; Ph.D. qualifying projects; dissertation with oral defense; three semesters (minimum) teaching experience. Tracks have specific requirements that are spelled out in the Graduate Handbook. Alumni Outcomes Learn More Leadership Department Chair Matthew T. Rutz matthew_rutz@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies John Steele john_steele@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Mailing Address Brown University Box 1899 Egyptology@brown.edu 401-863-3132 Visit the Department of Egyptology and Assyriology Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Egyptology and Assyriology Open details for Egyptology and Assyriology Bookmark this Page