Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School Apply today Explore Programs Explore more than 26 master's degree programs and 19 doctoral programs. Our graduate program advisers are full-time resident faculty within their departments, so they can answer questions and help you understand where you might fit in. Admissions Explore the process and requirements for admission to the Graduate School, and learn about the many services, programs and organizations available to TU graduate students. Request Information Plan A Visit Admissions Financial Assistance Program Advisers We cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. Read the full statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement , Resources Events Publications Length of Degree & Completion Rates New Student Information Current Student Information Student Stories One of the great things about the program is the faculty. There are professors who are willing to help you advance your career. One of my favorite professors has given me a lot of advice on research I want to do. Asim Zaidi, Master of Science in Finance Research When looking at graduate programs, you should consider how an institution’s research will shape your academic experience and professional future. Research is going on all over the TU campus and addresses everything from new petrochemical technologies to the impact of traumatic events on the human psyche. Student Research Colloquium Research Institutes and Centers I was interested in becoming an expert in my field and wanted an advisor who shares similar research interests and questions. Professor Ron Bonett turned out to be an ideal fit. Ruben Tovar, Ph.D. Biological Sciences Events Jun 24 First Summer Session Ends 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More Jun 27 Second Summer Session Begins 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More Jul 04 Independence Day 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More View More Events News All News Stories Statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement As a community, we have to hold each other accountable to teach the history we were never taught, engage in hard conversations and actively challenge acts of racism, prejudice and injustice. We have a responsibility to be a leader in providing opportunities and resources to build a community, on-campus and in our city, where Black Lives Matter. Educating parents in order to boost childhood vaccination rates Vaccines are safe and effective. So why are so many children in the U.S. unvaccinated? Using a multimodal approach, doctor of nursing practice student Shelby Pope will educate parents on the importance of vaccinating their kids. Never too late: Single mom pursues a graduate degree Decadence and the Occult: TU English Explores the Victorian Politics of Diversity TU psychology faculty and students helping kids and teens with nightmares Doctor of Nursing Practice student aims to help Hispanic women combat heart disease 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT