Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Graduate Student Affairs Team Our Community Events and Programs Support Resources Family Focused Initiatives Health and Wellness Safety Crisis Resources Family Focused Initiatives Overview The Graduate School has a continuum of programs and policies in place to ensure that graduate degree candidates can meet the needs and demands of personal and family life while successfully pursuing their academic programs. Our family focused initiatives include: Childbirth and Adoption Accommodation Through the Childbirth and Adoption Accommodation Policy, enrolled graduate degree candidates in good academic standing who become parents are eligible for a period of accommodation during which teaching and academic obligations are suspended. The policy provides for three separate accommodations, and students may be eligible for one or more: 1) a 14-week suspension of academic work, 2) an additional term of enrollment, and 3) an additional term of financial support. More information can be found in the policy section of our website. Students who have questions about this accommodation are encouraged to be in touch with Dean Willey. Access to Carebridge Princeton University has contracted with the Carebridge Corporation to provide confidential assistance to graduate students for managing work, personal or family issues at no charge. The Carebridge Employee Assistance Program (EAP) helps graduate students work through many difficult personal issues such as: Drug and/or alcohol abuse Stress and depression Financial issues Interpersonal relationships Married life and parenting Grief and loss The individual Work Life Program assists with issues and referrals for the following types of services: Child care Elder care Adoption Time management and life balance Personal financial management More information can be found on the Carebridge webpage. Backup Care Advantage Program Princeton University has partnered with Bright Horizons to provide you with backup care when you experience temporary disruptions in your child, adult, or elder caregiving arrangements that would otherwise prevent you from fulfilling work or study obligations. As a graduate degree candidate, you have 100 hours of care available for each calendar year. More information is available on the Human Resources website. Graduate Child Assistance Program This program provides taxable grants, based on total, annual household income, to eligible graduate degree candidates with children to help them meet the cost of child care, housing, and dependent health premiums. More information, including additional details about the eligibility criteria, is available on the Graduate Child Assistance Program webpage. University-Affiliated Child Care Centers There are two University-affiliated child care centers. Both are National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) accredited. NAEYC is generally acknowledged to be the most rigorous of the national accrediting agencies for child care centers. More information can be found at on the Human Resources website. Child Care Center Discounts for University Faculty, Staff and Students There are a number of local child care centers that offer discounts for University faculty, staff, and students. To view the complete list, visit the Human Resources website. Resources Nursing Guidelines Childbirth and Adoption Accommodation Family Resources Brochure Graduate Student Affairs Team Our Community Events and Programs Support Resources Family Focused Initiatives Health and Wellness Safety Crisis Resources Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University