Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Graduate School Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Programs Admissions Resources to Prepare for Graduate School Student Stories Adonara Mucek, Ph.D. Geology '17 Adriana Mendoza, Ph.D. Mathematics '14 Andrew Olsen Becca Maher ('21, Ph.D.) Bryan Lynn, Ph.D. Integrative Biology Celeste Frazier Barthel, Ph.D. Education '21 Diane Brandt Garrett Rogers Ginny Katz, Ph.D. Geography Jafra Thomas Jordan Jimmie Kelsey Contreras Layla Ghazi Marie Tosa, Ph.D. Wildlife Sciences Sara Letton Tiara Walz, Ph.D. Public Health Glossary of Terms Student Ambassadors Current Students Master's Students Doctoral Students Certificate Students New Graduate Students Grad Welcome Week 2022 Co-sponsorships Your Graduate Committee Student Resources Grad Appreciation Week Grad Research Photo Competition Tips for Scheduling Committee Meetings Program of Study Graduate Teaching Assistantship (GTA) Training Thesis Guide Commencement Grad Inspire Grievance Procedures Request a Workshop Earning Concurrent Degrees or Pursuing a Dual Major Videos Career Preparation Grad Writing Group Challenge Graduate Writing Center Graduate Writing Center Online GRAD 420 - Graduate School Preparation GRAD 512 - Current Issues in Higher Education GRAD 513 - Professional Development in College and University Teaching GRAD 514 GRAD 516 - Graduate Teaching Seminar GRAD 520 - Responsible Conduct of Research GRAD 521 - Research Data Management GRAD 542 - The Inclusive College Classroom GRAD 550 - Introduction to Online Teaching GRAD 560 - Theories of Teaching and Learning GRAD 561 - Course Design and Methods GRAD 599 - Creating Happiness GRAD 599 - Interdisciplinary Teams GRAD Courses OSU Grad Advantage WR 599 - Scientific and Technical Research Writing WR 599 - Writing Workshop for Thesis and Dissertation Writers Funding Postdocs Faculty Resources Graduate Faculty Membership Graduate Council Representatives Graduate Program Policies Policy updates Holistic Admissions Graduate Mentoring Defining the Graduate Mentor The Importance of Mentors Apprenticeship and Mentoring Mentor and Mentee Pairing Maintaining and Evaluating Mentoring Suggestions for Mentoring Programs Handbooks, Manuals, and Guides Mentoring Bibliography Excellence in Mentoring Award Outcomes Assessment of Graduate Programs Communication Items Graduate Recruitment Toolkit College and Program Recruitment Representatives Graduate Recruitment Tips Helpful Recruitment Links Shared Graduate Recruitment Schedule Leave of Absence and Family Medical Leave Eligibility Mentor Training for Faculty Student Funding Student Progress Student Registration Information Supporting Fulbright-Sponsored Students Diversity About News April 2022 Newsletter March 2022 Newsletter February 2022 Newsletter Staff Strategic Plan Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Programs Admissions Current Students Funding Postdocs Faculty Resources Diversity About You are here Home » Admissions After you Apply Checking Your Application Status You may check your application status at any time. To check, please sign into the application. You will need the application email address and password you created when completing the application. Click "view" on your submitted application to see the progress of your application. You will see your status within the status bar: Graduate applications sometimes remain in "Review" status for many weeks. Graduate programs usually review files at scheduled intervals, not on a daily basis. For information regarding a particular program’s decision timeline, please contact that graduate program. Uploading Application Documents Application documents can be uploaded anytime during the application process. While completing the application, you can use the “Upload Documents” section. After submission of the application, you can use the “Upload Additional Documents” section on the Application Summary page. Please be aware that uploaded documents are moved from the application to the university database once each business day. During this progress, uploaded documents may not be visible in this area of the page. Please do not upload the documents again if it has been less than two business days since the document was originally uploaded. The documents will appear in the “Documents Received” area once the process is complete. Required documents vary for each graduate program, as a program may require specific forms, resumes, writing samples, or more. For information regarding a particular program’s requirements, please contact that graduate program. You can find assistance on the Frequently Asked Questions page if you have additional questions or need help with the upload system. Providing Letters of Reference Most programs require letters of reference. It is the applicant’s responsibility to make sure the references are submitted before the deadline. In the application system, you can enter the names and contact information for your reference providers. The application system will email the reference providers with instructions on how they can submit their letter. Changing your Term, Address or Major If your email or mailing address has changed since you submitted your application, or you wish to change your term, please consult our Applications Forms page for instructions on how to update your application. CHANGE OF MAJOR: A change of major requires submission of a new application form and payment of a second fee. Admissions Minimum Academic Requirements International Applicants Application Process Application Deadlines Cost of Attendance Non-Degree Students After You Apply Frequently Asked Questions Faculty as Student Policy Graduate Application Fee Waivers Hold Codes Apply Notice of Availability In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Oregon State University publishes Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports for each of the four Oregon State campuses: Corvallis, HMSC, OSU at EOU, and OSU-Cascades. These reports include current security policies plus crime and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. Contact information for various campus and community resources related to crime prevention and survivor assistance is in the body and appendix of the reports. Paper copies for the Corvallis campus are available at 200 Cascade Hall, 601 SW 17th St., Corvallis, OR. If you prefer, you may request a copy by emailing [email protected]. This report is available without charge. Contact Info Graduate School Heckart Lodge 2900 SW Jefferson Way Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-1102 Phone: 541-737-4881 Fax: 541-737-3313 Email Contact Us Instagram Twitter Facebook Login Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Links Programs - Majors, minors and certificates Admissions Academic Progress Funding Student Success Postdocs Faculty Support Staff Directory Forms Graduate Catalog