Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Graduate School Guidelines for Submitting Materials Electronically Graduate School Guidelines for Submitting Materials Electronically Please see the following instructions to electronically submit materials to the Graduate School. Graduate Students Please email all materials to: GradStudentSvcs@austin.utexas.edu. Include your name and UT EID in all correspondence. All forms must be submitted in PDF format only. PDF documents files should be named with your EID first, followed by the document type. For example: EID_ReqFinalOral.pdf Please ensure forms contain all the required signatures before emailing, as this may delay processing. During peak periods, it may take up to seven days for our staff to reply. Please do not send your email more than once, you will receive a confirmation when you form is accepted. GRADUATING STUDENTS: Only submit required pages to this inbox. Do not submit your report/thesis/dissertation to this inbox. Final reports, theses and dissertations MUST be uploaded to the Texas Digital Library before your final paperwork and pages will be reviewed. After submission, no revisions or corrections will be allowed except for those required by the dean of the Graduate School. Electronic signatures continue to be approved for use on all graduate school forms such as the Request for Final Oral, Master’s Committee Approval form and Report of Dissertation Committee. Digital signatures or scanned signatures are also allowed. Please make every attempt to ensure that your report/thesis/dissertation complies with university format guidelines. Forms Accepted via Email Doctoral Request for Final Oral Examination The Graduate School does not distinguish between physical attendance or electronic/virtual attendance. Doctoral students and their committees should consult in advance to identify an acceptable format. This may include individual communication between student and committee member, rather than the conventional single defense presentation to the entire committee. Regardless of the format of the final defense, the Graduate School will consider a student to have passed when committee members have indicated their approval by signing the “Report of Dissertation Committee.” This verifies that committee members have read and reviewed the final dissertation to determine that it is an independent investigation and constitutes an original contribution to knowledge. Request for Change in Doctoral Committee Final Submission Required Pages Master’s (thesis/report options only) Petition for Change in Master’s Supervising Committee PDF Graduation Applications (dual degree students only) Petition to Extend the Six-Year Limit on Coursework Final Submission Required Pages All Students: Authorization for Leave of Absence Portfolio Completion Reporting Form Request for University Extension Credit Petition to Transfer a Graduate Course from Another Institution All forms should be emailed to GradStudentSvcs@austin.utexas.edu for processing. Faculty Members The Graduate School does not distinguish between physical attendance or electronic/virtual attendance. The student and their committee should consult in advance to identify an acceptable format. This may include individual communication between student and committee member, rather than the conventional single defense presentation to the entire committee. The Graduate School will consider a student to have passed when the committee has indicated their approval by the signing the Report of Dissertation Committee. This verifies that they have read and reviewed the final dissertation to determine that it is an independent investigation and constitutes an original contribution to knowledge. The Center for Teaching and Learning has prepared guides and more information to facilitate electronic meetings between supervising committees and their students. It is critical that supervisors review their students’ report/thesis/dissertation after upload to the Texas Digital Library. When a student submits a report/thesis/dissertation, the supervisor of the committee will receive an automated email with a link to the uploaded document. The uploaded document must be the final version that was approved by the supervising committee. Supervisors can notify the Graduate School via the emailed link if the document is correct or incorrect. If your student is requesting an embargo, they should submit the signed embargo form to our student services email with their final paperwork. Graduate Advisers & Coordinators As a reminder, the Graduate School accepts digital or scanned signatures on ALL graduate school forms. Please encourage your students to collect signatures digitally. Forms not available on our website (including forms from the Office of the Registrar) can be obtained in PDF form from the Graduate School. Please contact GradStudentSvcs@austin.utexas.edu. These forms include: Graduate Add/Drops and Withdrawals. These forms still require that all procedures be followed and must still include required signatures, but should then be emailed to GradStudentSvcs@austin.utexas.edu. If you have questions about student registration, please contact us for guidance at GradStudentSvcs@austin.utexas.edu. As always, check the Roster System to ensure contact information is correct and to authorize a secondary coordinator if your program does not already have one. The secondary coordinator is considered a back-up to the graduate coordinator and can fulfill many necessary processes for students who are graduating. Resources University COVID-19 Updates Graduate School COVID-19 FAQs Resources for Graduate Student Instructors Table of Contents Graduate Students Forms Accepted via Email Faculty Members Graduate Advisers and Coordinators Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022