Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Student Experience Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series As part of a continued orientation experience for incoming graduate and professional students, the Graduate School sponsors a special seminar series for first-year graduate and professional students. The purpose of Graduate School Primer workshops is for students to gain valuable information and skills to make a successful transition into the role of a Cornell graduate or professional student. Graduate School Primer Workshops Understanding and Overcoming the Impostor Experience (aka- You Belong in Grad School) January 28th, 10:00 – 11:30 a.m. ET Did you know that impostor feelings are normal and that most high-achieving graduate students experience these feelings at some point? Join us to better understand the impostor phenomenon; learn to recognize it, and see recent research on how it can be a barrier to graduate student success. By defining it and sharing experiences, you’ll learn evidence-based tools to help combat impostor feelings. Presenter: Jessamyn Perlus, interim senior associate director and career exploration unit manager The Basics of Mental Health and Well-being January 31st, 4:00 – 5:00 p.m. ET Make sure that you develop your mental health support plan so that you can have the energy and reserves to support your academic success. The stressors of being a graduate student are real and understanding the research for how you can best support your mental health and well-being is key to your future success. In this session, we will define mental health, learn key concepts of resilience, and emphasize the importance of sense of belonging and self-care practices. You’ll be able to connect with others in the session as well. University and local resources are also provided. Panelists: Janna Lamey, senior assistant dean for graduate student life Get the Mentoring You Need and Want February 2nd, 10:00 – 11:00 a.m. ET A mentor is the most critical relationship for a graduate student. Mentoring begins with understanding what mentoring is and what you hope to get out of the relationship. Through interactive discussion and case studies, we will discuss how to establish a positive relationship and communicate effectively with your mentors. Presenters: Colleen McLinn, Future Faculty and Academic Careers executive director, and Sara Xayarath Hernández, associate dean for inclusion and student engagement Creating, Building, and Maintaining Social Networks February 10th, 4:00 – 5:00 p.m. ET Relationships that are grounded in trust, respect, and acceptance are the strongest factor in building and maintaining resilience. And, without the same engagement opportunities as pre-pandemic culture, it is now much more of a challenge to create, build, and maintain social networks. So, what is a graduate student supposed to do? During this one-hour session, we’ll review the value of social networks, and more importantly, hear from graduate and professional students who have strategies and suggestions for how to be connected during this difficult time. Presenters: Jen Forbes, Big Red Barn Graduate and Professional Student Center director; Janna Lamey, senior assistant dean for graduate student life; and panel of esteemed students Maximizing Your Every Minute February 14th, 4:00 – 5:00 p.m. ET While there is not a one-size-fits-all approach to best manage your most precious resource, time management is a skill that can be learned! Given the many demands for your time and attention to support your many identities, roles, and relationships, techniques can be learned to help you be able to consciously decide what you should do when. Join us for an interactive discussion that reviews commonly used techniques, how to make strategic decisions that support the whole you, and how to maintain relationships when setting boundaries. In addition, share with others what you have found works best for you. Presenter: Janna Lamey, senior assistant dean for graduate student life Understanding Doctoral Funding at Cornell: An Introduction to Fellowships and Assistantships February 17th, 10:00 – 11:00 a.m. ET At Cornell, almost all Ph.D. students receive funding that pays tuition and provides a living stipend through a combination of fellowships, assistantships, and external scholarships. This presentation will explain how stipends are paid, what your responsibilities are, and provides insight on how to be an active participant in your own funding plan. Presenter: Jason Kahabka, associate dean for administration The How-To Manual for Managing Your Health while a Cornell Graduate Student February 22nd, 3:30 – 5:00 p.m. ET Join us for a candid conversation about the intersection of managing your health as you are a Cornell graduate student. We will review the different health and academic options that are designed to support you and discuss strategies for how to continue to persist during challenging times. Join us for a panel discussion with Student Disability Services Office, Cornell Health, the Graduate School, and esteemed graduate students who have direct experience in this area and are willing to share their perspectives. This is an opportunity for you to learn what Cornell has for support and to gain insights for how to manage your health and well-being successfully. Presenters: Karen Williams, Cornell Health Counseling and Psychological Services; Zebadiah Hall, Student Disability Services director; Janna Lamey, senior assistant dean for graduate student life A Survival Guide to Graduate School February 25th, 10:00 – 11:00 a.m ET Are there unwritten rules of graduate school? Expectations that you find out later than you wanted to? Things you suspect everyone else has discovered…everyone but you? We will discuss these expectations, share tips from current students, and get advice from graduate faculty and Graduate School deans. You can do this! Presenter: Jan Allen, associate dean for academic and student affairs Develop Your Strategic Plan for Graduate School Success March 2nd, 4:00 – 5:00 p.m. ET Graduate school may not be exactly what you expected…so what is a first-year to do? Make a strategic plan! Spend time with our associate dean discussing the value of strategic planning and how to take control of your academic future from the first day. This session includes practical strategies, illustrative stories, and cautionary advice on avoiding and overcoming obstacles. Presenter: Jan Allen, associate dean for academic and student affairs Serious Scholarship and Responsible Conduct of Research March 8th, 2:00 – 3:00 p.m. ET Navigating responsibilities for conducting research as a graduate student can be challenging. It is essential that graduate students understand Cornell’s regulations and expectations for science and scholarship. Discuss with our associate dean important issues related to ethics and integrity, obstacles and situations to avoid, what to do when faced with a challenging situation, and campus resources available to graduate students about research, collaborations, co-authorship, publishing, and mentoring. Presenter: Jan Allen, associate dean for academic and student affairs Organize Your Space to Optimize Your Academic Performance March 10th, 10:00 – 11:00 a.m. ET Do you feel a bit disorganized in your house/apartment/room/office space? Did you know this has an impact on how successful you could be academically? In this one hour session we will explore the impacts cluttered spaces have and talk about what you can do to get on a path to better organization. Presenter: Jen Forbes, Big Red Barn Graduate and Professional Student Center director Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022