Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Spotlight: Abby Kelly Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Yonatan Eyal Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Apply » Frequently Asked Questions » Application Process Set Navigation title in component Admission Criteria Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Application Process Who do I contact if I'm having technical issues with the online application system? right arrow down arrow The Graduate School Help Desk is available to help applicants troubleshoot any problems with the online application system. The help desk is available Monday through Friday during normal business hours (8 a.m.–5 p.m. Eastern Time Zone) and can be reached via phone at (513) 556-1496 or via e-mail at gradhelpdesk@uc.edu. What does a typical application contain? right arrow down arrow A typical application to the University of Cincinnati will include the following parts: A completed university online graduate application Uploaded unofficial copies of all college transcripts Official transcripts should only be submitted after an admissions decision has been made. Official transcripts sent prior to being requested will not be attached to the online application. Letters of recommendation submitted through the online recommendation system Recommenders can include former professors, employers and other professional individuals pertinent to the your field of study You can manage recommendations in the application status page View this document for help with entering and managing recommendations: Troubleshooting recommendations (To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download) Test scores from qualifying exams such as the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) or the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) International applicants: test scores from English proficiency tests such as the TOEFL or IELTS (see International Student Admissions: English Proficiency Requirement) A personal statement or letter of intent When applicable, instructions for these documents are available in the online application. Contact your program of interest for more information on admission requirements. Does UC accept Duolingo, IELTS, and/or TOEFL test scores? right arrow down arrow Yes, UC accepts these tests (when the minimum required score is met, as listed below) to fulfill the English Proficiency Requirement for applicants whose native language is not English. Most students fulfill the English requirement by taking the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Testing System (IELTS), the Duolingo English Test (DET), or the PEARSON Test of English (PTE). All test scores are valid for up to two years or as defined by the testing agency. For IELTS, an overall band score of 6.5 is sufficient for graduate admission. For the Duolingo English Test (160-point scale), a score of 105 is sufficient. For PEARSON, a score of 47 is sufficient. TOEFL requirements vary based on the type of TOEFL test taken. For the TOEFL exam, the minimum university requirements are either: 80 (internet-based test, iBT), or a score of 20 or higher on each of the three components of the new “paper-delivered test” (this test does not have a single composite score). How do I apply to two (or more) programs at UC? right arrow down arrow You must complete a separate application for each program and pay the fee for each application. You must provide the required materials for each program. Each application requires separate, customized letters of recommendations. Letters of recommendation and materials submitted to one program will not be shared with other programs. There is no restriction on the number of programs to which a student may apply. What is the application deadline for my program of interest? right arrow down arrow Application deadlines vary by program. Some programs admit students every term, while others admit students only once per year. To find out when your application is due, asks the admission contact for your program of interest. How long will it take to fill out the application? right arrow down arrow You should plan on spending approximately 30 minutes to finish and review the form. How much is the application fee? right arrow down arrow $65.00 for most colleges/programs $125.00 for College-Conservatory of Music ($65 for application & $60 for audition) $140.00 for the Physiology (MS) program $75.00 for College of Engineering $70.00 for the Psychology program $20.00 for most graduate certificates Physical Therapy additional application fees found at PTCAS Communication Sciences and Disorders additional application fees found at CSDCAS Nursing additional application fees found at NURSINGCAS Public Health additional application fees found at SOPHAS There is a $5 surcharge for international applicants, permanent residents, and foreign nationals. How do I pay my application fee? right arrow down arrow The Graduate School accepts credit cards (Visa, MasterCard or Discover) or electronic checks. Are there any admission application fee waivers? right arrow down arrow Three programs are granted application fee waivers by the Graduate School: McNair Scholars State of Ohio STARS Scholars GEM Scholars To indicate your participation in one of these programs, check the appropriate button and add your advisor's name when completing the online application, then email documentation to Matt Guido at guidowm@ucmail.uc.edu. What do I send to the program? right arrow down arrow All materials should be uploaded to the online application. During the application, you will be told which materials are required for the program to which you are applying. Do not send any additional materials; they will not be attached to your application. How do I send a reminder to my recommender(s) or add a new recommender? right arrow down arrow You can manage recommendations—including sending a reminder to your recommender(s) and adding a new recommender—in the application status page. View this document for help with entering and managing recommendations: Troubleshooting recommendations (pdf) (To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download). Can an applicant submit a letter of recommendation themselves on behalf of a recommender? right arrow down arrow No - letters of recommendation need to come directly from the listed recommender on your application via a link created and sent through your online application. My current/previous school does not use a GPA scale. How do I fill in the GPA section in the online application? right arrow down arrow Applicants have two choices for filling in the GPA section in this instance. First, you can enter a zero for your undergraduate GPA. UC graduate programs understand that a zero indicates that an applicant’s current or previous school does not use a GPA scale. Second, you can use an online GPA calculator to convert your marks into a 4.0 GPA scale. What is UC's college code (for the GRE or another test)? right arrow down arrow UC's "CEEB" college code, as established by The College Board, is 1833. CEEB codes are used to ensure that test scores (such as the GRE) and transcripts are sent to the correct institution. How do I send my IELTS scores to UC? (International applicants only) right arrow down arrow The Graduate School downloads IELTS scores that have been transmitted to our e-download account. Please contact your test center and request that your scores be sent to the following IELTS e-download account: University of Cincinnati - Graduate School 110 Van Wormer Hall PO Box 210627 Cincinnati Ohio, 45221-0627 United States Please note that international applicants can demonstrate English proficiency in a number of ways at the graduate level. The IELTS is one of many ways to fulfill this requirement. Please see the English Proficiency Requirement page for more information. I requested for test scores (GRE, IELTS, etc) to be sent to UC, when will they be noted as received on my application? right arrow down arrow It can take up to three business weeks from when you request for your test scores to be submitted from the testing agency for UC to receive your scores. Additionally, our system uses your name to match your scores with your application. If the name you input for your application differs from the name on your test scores, this may cause an issue in matching the test scores to your application. Please reach out to grad.info@uc.edu with questions. What is the Graduate School's mailing address? right arrow down arrow For regular U.S. postal mail: University of Cincinnati - Graduate School 110 Van Wormer Hall PO Box 210627 Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0627 United States For delivery via FedEx, DHL, etc. University of Cincinnati - Graduate School 2614 McMicken Circle 110 Van Wormer Hall Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0627 United States Can I edit my application after I submit it? right arrow down arrow No, you cannot edit your application once you submit it. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top