Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > About > FAQs FAQs ABOUT Facilities Program Director & Selected Participating Faculty FAQs What graduate programs does The University of Tulsa offer? We offer master’s degrees in: Accountancy (MAcc) Anthropology (MA) Athletic Training (MAT) Biological Science (MS) Business Administration (MBA) Business Analytics (MSBA) Chemical Engineering (MSE, ME) Clinical Psychology (MA) Computer Science (MS) Cyber Security (MS, JD/MS) Electrical Engineering (ME) Energy Business (MEB) English Language and Literature (MA) Geosciences (MS) Industrial/Organizational Psychology (MA) Applied Mathematics (MS) Mechanical Engineering (MSE, ME) Museum Science and Management (MA) Petroleum Engineering (MSE, ME) Speech-Language Pathology (MS) We offer Doctor of Philosophy degrees in: Biological Science Clinical Psychology Chemical Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science English Language and Literature Industrial-Organizational Psychology Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering We offer Doctor of Nursing Practice degrees in: Acute-Care Adult-Gerontology Family Nurse Practitioner Nurse Anesthesia Post-Master’s to DNP Completion A list of graduate program advisers to contact for more information, click here. How do I apply? You can apply by filling out an online application. All of the information and materials you will need to apply is available here. Please note: Even if you apply online, you can still submit many of your supporting application materials on paper, if necessary. However, electronic versions are preferred. Applications cannot be fully processed and a decision rendered until you submit all required materials. How much is tuition at the University of Tulsa? For a full list of tuition rates by program type, visit https://graduate.utulsa.edu/admission/tuition-expenses/. What are the estimated costs if I attend graduate school at TU? Some costs are variable and depend on your needs as well as whether you are an international student or a citizen of the United States. For a breakdown of the costs, click here. In general, full-time graduate students should expect to pay tuition and fees of about $25,114 for the academic year and living expenses totaling approximately another $21,550. International students not on an assistantship or fellowship must be able to document available funds totaling at least $6,664. Some programs with required summer enrollment may have higher associated costs. Please note: International students are required to pay the International Student fee. All students are required to have documented health insurance. How long does it take to earn a graduate degree? It depends on whether you are a full- or part-time student and whether you are seeking a master’s degree or a Ph.D. Most master’s degrees are expected to take 2 1/2 years if you are a full-time student. Most Ph.D. degrees take between 3-6 years to earn. The University of Tulsa Graduate School has a statute of limitations of 6 years for the completion of a graduate degree. Specific questions about particular graduate degree timelines and expectations should be directed to the particular program’s graduate advisor. To access a list of program advisors, click here. What kinds of financial assistance are available? The University of Tulsa offers an array of merit- and need-based financial assistance. There are several university-wide assistantships and fellowships, some of which do not have a service requirement. The deadline to apply for many of these awards is January 15, for the following academic year. In addition, most departments offer teaching or research assistantships. The deadline to apply for these assistantships is February 1, for the following academic year. These forms of aid are generally merit-based. Need-based aid is distributed through the university’s Financial Aid Office. International students, please note: In order to attend The University of Tulsa Graduate School, you must submit a Confirmation of Financial Resources (CFR) stating that you have sufficient funds to attend TU. To login to view your CFR, click here. Financial assistance for first year international students is rare. What is the procedure for processing my application and how long does it take? After the Graduate School receives your application we will send you regular emails that list application materials the Graduate School is still missing or inform you that your application is complete. It is your responsibility to ensure we receive all missing materials. For application requirements for all students, click here. Application processing time varies by program, so be sure to talk with your faculty adviser to determine the expected timeline. International students who require visas should allow at least three months for completed processing of all paperwork. International applicants should submit completed applications as soon as possible to ensure required immigration paperwork can be processed in a timely manner if you are accepted. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT