Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Graduate School Request Information Apply Now Degree Programs Interdisciplinary Degrees Professional Degrees Graduate Certificates Announcements News and Events News and Important Dates Prospective Students Costs Jobs and Funding FAQs PNNL/WSU Program Current Students Navigating Your Degree Costs GPSA Jobs and Funding Student Resources Establishing Residency PNNL/WSU Program WICHE Professional Development RADS Community McNair Program Faculty and Staff Finances Bylaws Recruitment Toolbox Prepare Ahead Graduate Studies Committee Research Assistantship for Diverse Scholars (RADS) Forms Annual Reports Current Annual Report Archived Reports Policies & Procedures Catalog Graduate Program Review and Assessment Graduate Program Assessment Graduate Student Learning Outcomes 2021 Graduate Student Survey Results Graduate Program Review Resources for Faculty Graduate School Reports Staff Directory A-Z Index Life at WSU Give to the Graduate School facebook twitter youtube linkedin myWSU Access Policies © Washington State University Graduate School Request InfoApply NowGive Educational psychology doctoral student awarded prestigious internship Learn More A Bear in Your Sight is Worth Two in the Bush Learn More Doctoral Student Researches Language and Technology to Help Others Learn More Horticulturist Explores Genetics of Resistance to Fire Blight in Apples Learn More Doctoral Candidate Researches Persuasive Power of Communication Technologies Learn More Graduate Student Andrew Raub Earns BAEF Fellowship Learn More Grad Student in Civil Engineering Detects Damage Inside Concrete Learn More Pharm D candidate selected as ASPET Washington Fellow Learn more Grad student’s research replacing cement with fly ash greatly improves concrete Learn More MFA Student’s Art Reveals Deeper Truths Through Humor Learn More Pause Watch the 2021 Meet and Greet video IMPORTANT!! WSU has enabled MFA for myWSU. If you have not already set up MFA, please visit your self-service account settings at account.wsu.edu and look for the Extra Verification section. It is highly recommended to configure at least two factors to allow for access in the case of losing one. More information can be found at its.wsu.edu/mfa In the News A Bear in Your Sight is Worth Two in the Bush March 11, 2021 carla.delira By Carla De Lira and Cynthia Hollenbeck If you’ve ever hiked in the wilderness and seen a large object nearby, you may have asked yourself, “Was that a bear or a bush?” To master’s student in natural resource sciences at Washington State University, Cullen Anderson, the question is an important component of his research. Cullen studies how the black bear population data from North Cascades National Park in Washington state can provide important information for park management decision making.Cullen Anderson carrying one of his bear decoys for his … » More … Read Story Doctoral Student Researches Language and Technology to Help Others December 18, 2020 elle.oneill By Elle Ciaciuch O’Neill and Cynthia Hollenbeck Jose Riera, Ph.D. candidate in Washington State University’s College of Education, focuses his research on developing computer applications to help foreign language learners, immigrants, and individuals with communicative disabilities to improve their pronunciation skills. According to Jose, there are 1 billion foreign language learners, 275 million immigrants, and 550 million individuals with communicative disabilities worldwide. With these numbers, Jose hopes this research will make a notable impact on the language-learning world. One of the main challenges for second language learners is understanding and articulating unfamiliar new sounds in their target language. Jose believes that by providing these learners … » More … Read Story Horticulturist Explores Genetics of Resistance to Fire Blight in Apples November 22, 2020 elle.oneill By Cynthia Hollenbeck and Elle Ciaciuch O’Neill Sarah Kostick, Ph.D., is making great strides in the world of apple breeding at Washington State University. By investigating resistance/susceptibility to fire blight in apples to enable more efficient development of apple varieties with resistance to fire blight, she has found that specific genomic regions (also called genetic loci) are associated with resistance, and much more. Fire blight is a devastating bacterial disease that affects a range of apple cultivars (varieties). This disease has the potential to cause tree death and, depending on the year, can destroy entire orchards. Fire blight, caused by the bacterium Erwinia amylovora, can infect … » More … Read Story Read More News Considering Graduate School? Start preparing now! Request for Information Graduate degrees and certificates How to APPLY Upcoming Events Read More WSU Graduate School has more than 140 Graduate Programs + Certificates 6 Campuses, including online 39 Extension Offices 4 Research and Extension Centers Graduate School Washington State University Stadium Way, 324 French Administration Building P.O. Box 641030 Pullman, WA 99164-1030 gradschool@wsu.edu P: 509-335-6424, F: 509-335-1949 QUICK LINKS Graduate School Mission FAQs Cost of Living in Pullman 2019 Graduate School Report Tuition and Finances Scholarships and Fellowships Graduate Degree Programs Campus Map Transportation and Parking Housing Student Health Insurance TA Resources WSU Children’s Center Professional Development GPSA Student Recreation Center Sports and Recreation Sightseeing the Palouse Restaurants and Shopping Entertainment Coug Bikes Events and Tickets Chamber of Commerce Lisa Gloss, Ph.D. Dean, Graduate School (509) 335-5859