Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Fields of Study Chemistry and Chemical Biology Ph.D. (Ithaca) Field of Study Chemistry and Chemical Biology Program Description The program of graduate study is designed to give broad training in the fundamentals of chemistry and in methods of research. Students ordinarily pursue those objectives by taking advanced courses, participating in organized and informal seminars, and carrying out and reporting on research projects in their major subject. Students normally conduct research during the summer and receive financial support for this purpose. With the consent of the Special Committee, a student may elect one or two minors from the above list or from another field. Entering students are required to register with the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at the beginning of their first term. They consult with the Director of Graduate Studies and with their temporary Special Committee. Proficiency tests in inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry are required of all entering Ph.D. degree candidates. These tests are given a few days before registration for the fall term. Results are used to help the Special Committee plan the student's program. Remedial course work may be required of students with poor test scores. Students majoring in organic or bio-organic chemistry must prepare and defend an original research proposal, usually after passing the Admission to Candidacy examination. Specific inquiries from prospective graduate students are welcomed and should be addressed to the graduate field office or to any faculty member in the field. Contact Information Website: http://www.chemistry.cornell.edu Email: chemgrad@cornell.edu Phone: 607 255-4139 103 Baker Lab Baker Laboratory Ithaca, NY 14853-1301 Concentrations by Subject analytical chemistry bio-organic chemistry biophysical chemistry chemical biology chemical physics inorganic chemistry organic chemistry organometallic chemistry physical chemistry polymer chemistry theoretical chemistry Tuition $29,500 Application Requirements and Deadlines Application Deadlines: Fall, Dec. 1; Application Review begins Dec1; applications received after this date may be at a disadvantage Requirements Summary: Applicants should have the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree in chemistry, including courses in analytical, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry, as well as in mathematics and physics. Unusually promising students may be admitted with deficiencies in undergraduate training. all Graduate School Requirements, including the TOEFL or IELTS Exam for Non-Native English Applicants three recommendations GRE scores are not required or accepted TOEFL or IELTS test report must be sent to field prior to application Learning Outcomes The C&CB field expects students to obtain proficiency in the areas of Scholarship, Research, Communication, and Independence. Scholarship: Students must develop the ability to acquire, evaluate and synthesize knowledge in areas relevant to the broad chemical sciences, with special emphasis on their focused research areas. They must learn and apply principles from graduate courses, assimilate information from literature, and, importantly, critically evaluate published science. Through these skills, students will demonstrate a talent for selecting a scientific problem of note and novelty. We also expect that our students can educate others. This includes standard teaching of undergraduates but also the ability to educate peers and the scientific community with respect to their research results and ideas. True scholarship also requires students to view their work and interests in the greater context of the human condition. We aim to produce Ph.D. students with “curiosity, a free mind, belief in good taste, and belief in the human race.” (E.M. Forster). Research: Carrying out productive research is of primary importance for a degree in C&CB. Students will apply the general methods of scientific inquiry to conduct observations, formulate hypotheses, design experiments, and acquire data. In short, research is the ability to ask and answer questions. Success in research requires motivation, dedication, curiosity, and the experimental and/or theoretical skills to reveal truth in Nature. Students must apply the rigors of scientific training to the drive for discovery. In our view, graduate level education differs from all others in that acquiring and applying existing knowledge is ultimately only a means to the end of creating new knowledge. Certainly, we aspire to train our students in the methodology of science, but we also teach students how to discover and create. The form discovery takes is highly field dependent, even within Chemistry, but could for example include: discovery of a catalyst to elicit specific molecular transformations, understanding of a chemical mechanism behind a reaction, development of synthetic methodology to construct a complex molecule, the theoretical understanding of molecular and electronic structure, or revealing the molecular basis of a metabolic or cell-signaling pathway. In these endeavors students will gain field-specific technical skills, which could include laboratory techniques in synthetic chemistry, spectroscopy, biochemistry, molecular biology, and analytical methods, mathematical and statistical proficiency, computational acumen and instrument design capability. Finally, a proper understanding of ethical behavior in research and scholastic activities is critical and required of all graduate students. Communication: Students must be capable of expressing their ideas, summarizing information and engaging in productive discourse with advisors, colleagues, and less experienced students. They will become effective writers and orators and learn to present and defend material in a concise, succinct manner. Proficient technical writing skills, displayed primarily in journal publications, review articles, thesis dissertations and research proposals are an absolute requirement for a degree in C&CB. Independence: Ultimately, students must learn to take ownership of their research project and scholastic development. They must respond to challenges and educate themselves. When they graduate, they are expected to be the primary expert in their area of investigation. Two of the most consistent predictors for success in graduate school are maturity and motivation. Students who are accepted into our program arrive with some degree of these qualities, but we hope to enhance these aspects of their character. Through the course of their studies, many students will mature as young adults, learn to productively interact with others, manage their advisors, manage their time, take responsibility for their actions, and meet challenges in an environment much less structured than an undergraduate educational program. Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Narrow Your Search Return to Field of Study listing Search Phrase Go Filter by faculty Filter by program Campus Cornell ILR NYC Cornell NYC Tech Distance Learning Geneva Ithaca Degrees Doctorate Professional Masters Research Masters Disciplines Arts and Humanities Life Sciences Physical Sciences and Engineering Social Sciences Clear Filters Table of Contents Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022