skip to main content Close Menu Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Disability Services Campus Directory Search San Diego State University Graduate Studies Home Prospective Students Current Graduate Students Funding For Graduate Advisors Contact Us Research Menu San Diego State University Graduate Studies Graduate Studies Navigate this Section I Want to... Toggle Dropdown Get health insurance (GSHIP) See SDSU's Graduate Programs Apply to SDSU File a Petition or Form Understand My Grade Requirements Apply for Graduation Log In... Toggle Dropdown WebPortal Office 365 Canvas Contact InformationToggle Dropdown Graduate Studies Student Services East SSE 1410 5500 Campanile Drive Monday - Friday 9am - 4pm Phone: 619-594-5213 Email: [email protected] Graduate Studies Home Welcome to Graduate Studies! Click here for policy and procedure updates in response to the coronavirus crisis The College of Graduate Studies provides leadership and support to scholars engaged in over 100 master’s, doctoral, and advanced certificate programs at San Diego State. In collaboration with faculty, staff and students across the sciences, engineering, humanities, social sciences, arts, education and business, our team strives to ensure the integrity and high quality of graduate degrees, and facilitate their timely completion. Please note, now that SDSU has resumed in-person activities and services, the virtual front desk has been discontinued as of Tuesday, February 15th. Full walk-in services and office hours are now available in-person. Important Deadlines Graduation and Dissertation Steps for Ph.D Students Graduation and Dissertation Steps for Ed.D Students (Spring/Summer 2022 deadlines) Graduation and Thesis Steps for Master's Students (Spring / Summer 2022 deadlines) Summer 2022 Registration Deadlines Flyer for Master's Students Announcements The Office for Graduate Student Life & Diversity offer many personal development workshops. More information on their workshops can be found here: https://sacd.sdsu.edu/gradlife/events/personal-development Information about the Graduate Student Health Insurance Program (GSHIP) is now available! See this page for more information: https://grad.sdsu.edu/current_grad_students/gship Upcoming Deadlines Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames For a list of events offered by Graduate Life & Diversity, see their website. Student Spotlight Research San Diego State University excels in innovation, research, and creative activities due in a large part to the success of our graduate students. For many graduate programs, these accomplishments culminate in a thesis or dissertation that is expected to be of the highest quality for the field. Because research expectations and requirements vary widely, students are generally expected to develop a research plan with their Graduate Advisor or Thesis Chair in their first semesters at SDSU. Research at SDSU Interns Lend a Helping Hand in Disasters Students in the Homeland Security Program are assisting the Red Cross responders during emergencies. Read more about SDSU's Gabby Smith's time as a Disaster Duty Officer. Graduate Affairs 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 [email protected] Phone: 619-594-5213 Student Services East (SSE 1410) Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. A-Z Index Campus Directory Maps Parking Employment Media Relations Give to SDSU WebPortal General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Sign Up Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Requires SDSUid indicates links which require an SDSUid. Accessibility SDSU Digital Privacy Statement Feedback Document Reader twitter Last Updated 5/26/22