Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Event Policies and Resources Students currently involved in Columbia Engineering organizations can find important resources to support them in planning and hosting their event. Event Proposal Forms The Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC), its recognized groups, and the Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association (CUCSSA) must propose all events to the Office of Graduate Student Affairs. All other groups must propose their event to their administrative advisor. EGSC Executive Board Proposal Form: For events proposed by the EGSC Executive Board members. EGSC Student Group Proposal Form: For events proposed by EGSC recognized student groups. CUCSSA Proposal Form: For events proposed by Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association. Student Group Proposal Form: For all other student groups at Columbia Engineering. Event Planning Checklist When planning an event, make sure that the following cycle has been followed: Proposal Submission and Review Propose the event through GSA (EGSC, EGSC groups, and CUCSSA) or your Administrative Advisor (all other groups). Work out any recommended changes. Remember to get final confirmation from GSA. Planning and Logistics After approval, work with your advisor for room reservation, event invitations, volunteering assignments, facilities requests, payment of invoices, etc. Advertising Guidelines for flyer advertisements of student events is covered in the Event Planning Presentation. Advertise to your audience with flyers, social media, etc. Talk to GSA about publicity opportunities in our weekly newsletter and on the 4th floor electronic message boards. Day of Event Make sure all volunteers and event managers are ready and on-time. Event managers can not leave until the event is finished and the event space is cleaned up. Post Event Meet or call the event’s advisor to discuss the event and follow-up on invoices and finances related to the event (especially items initially paid with a letter of credit). Event Planning Presentation For more detailed information, read through the following presentation to make sure that you are aware of all GSA event policies and planning procedures. Download a PDF of this presentation. Columbia University Essential Policies All events, GSA or otherwise, must follow the policies outlined in the Essential Policies for the Columbia Community. EGSC Event Resources Visit the EGSC website to see additional event planning resources for EGSC-recognized student groups. More resources Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University