College of Graduate Studies Skip NavigationMenu About Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Luminary Awards NSF CAREER Awards Giving News and Information Calendar of Events Graduate Faculty Doctoral Graduates Diversity Forms and References Recent News Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCFThe program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. UCF Researchers Create Photonic Materials for Powerful, Efficient Light-based ComputingThe materials they are developing could allow for faster photonic computers that use less energy and could also one day lead to quantum computing. Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing CompaniesThe UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of DisastersThe tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and parts of Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana and Texas. Programs Interdisciplinary Programs Nanotechnology School of Modeling Simulation and Training Geographic Information Systems Graduate Certificate Interdisciplinary Studies Admissions Exploring UCF Program Data Diverse Academic Opportunities Program Grad Fair Application Deadlines and Requirements Applying to UCF International Applicants Cost Funding UCF Funding Assistantships Tuition Remission Health Insurance Seeking Fellowships Graduate Teaching Graduate Fellowships Meet our Fellows UCF Fellows Graduate Fellows Symposium Presentation Fellowship External Funding Fulbright Fulbright Spotlight Other Funding Resources Students Graduate Student Advisory Council Student Profiles Orientation Accessing Knights Email and Office 365 Student Handbook Graduate Plan of Study Cost Pathways to Success Thesis and Dissertation Commencement Graduate Student Center Graduate Life Report a Problem Research Remote Training 3MT (Three Minute Thesis﻿) Graduate Research Forum Graduate Research Forum Abstracts Postdoctoral Postdoctoral Profiles Postdoctoral Funding Resources Postdoctoral Professional Development Remote Training College of Medicine PostDoc Group Postdoctoral Scholar Hiring Guide Faculty and Staff Graduate Guide UCF Graduate Guide Graduate Faculty and Graduate Faculty Scholars Program and Course Management Recruiting Admissions International Services Student Advising Academic Integrity Advising Thesis and Dissertation Students Student Services and Academic Records Student Funding Assistantships Fellowships Graduate Teaching Requirements Tuition Remission Student Health Insurance Graduate Resources Faculty Profiles Graduate Council Training Program Data 2022 Conference of Florida Graduate Schools Apply Now! Looking for something? International Applicants International Applicants International Applicants UCF Welcomes International Students Sample Country Requirement Please visit Sample Country Requirements for a list of documents and evaluation information required for admission at the University of Central Florida. NOTE: In addition to these requirements, your program may require that applicants submit an outside course-by-course evaluation with GPA calculation. We accept evaluations from World Education Services, Inc., www.wes.org, and Josef Silny and Associates, Inc., www.jsilny.com. To verify whether or not an outside evaluation is required for your specific program: Visit UCF’s Graduate Catalog at https://www.ucf.edu/catalog/graduate/#/programs Click on the specific program AND track (if applicable) you are applying to Click on “Application Requirements” Master and Doctoral Applicants: If an outside evaluation is required, you will see the following statement; “Applicants applying to this program, except those that have earned or will earn a Masters or Doctoral degree from an accredited U.S. institution recognized by UCF, who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only.” Josef Silny and Associates, Inc 7101 SW 102, Miami, FL 33171 Telephone: 305-273-1616 Fax: 305-273-1338 www.jsilny.org/pdf/universityofcentralflorida-graduate.pdf World Education Services, Inc. PO Box 01-5060, Miami, FL 33101 Telephone: 306-358-6688 Fax: 305-358-4411 www.wes.org If your country is not listed, or if you have any questions, please contact us at gradevals@ucf.edu. Foreign Transcripts and Evaluation All applicants for graduate study at the University of Central Florida must hold a U.S. bachelor’s degree, or its equivalent, from a regionally accredited or governmentally recognized institution of higher learning. This is a minimum requirement for admission to a graduate program at UCF. All applicants for graduate admission must provide one official transcript and official certification of degree, with date awarded*. If a student has attended more than one college or university, separate transcripts must be submitted. All documents and test scores submitted in support of the student’s application must be official. To be official, transcripts and certificates must bear an original seal and/or signature of the school’s registrar or of the appropriate school official or office. Photocopies are not acceptable. In order to avoid any delay in reviewing and processing your documents, please be sure to visit our Sample Country Requirements page (https://ww2.graduate.ucf.edu/countryrequirements/) to review and submit the correct required documents for admission and evaluation purposes. If applicants (except for applicants who have earned a degree from Nepal) have the original, or official attested individual semester mark sheets/transcripts and degree certificate in possession, all applicants have the ability to scan and upload the individual semester mark sheets/transcripts and degree certificate/diploma to their applications for admission review. As a reminder, we cannot accept copies of unofficial transcripts or screenshots of grades from the applicant’s institution’s academic portal. The uploaded transcript and certificate must be a scanned copy (front and back) of the original/official transcript and certificate issued to applicants by their University’s Registrar or Controller of Examinations. The correct required uploaded documents will be considered unofficial. Admission decisions can be made based on the uploaded documents. NOTE for any earned degree from Nepal: We do not accept uploaded Nepalese transcripts and degree certificates. All Nepalese Transcripts and Degree certificates must be verified, attested, and sealed in official envelope by the USEF Nepal. Additionally, the USEF Nepal envelope must be stamped on the flap of their official envelope with their official USEF stamps. Complete information about USEF Nepal and their attestation services can be found at http://www.fulbrightnepal.org.np/. If applicants receive an offer of admission and decide to enroll, applicants will be required to submit officially attested paper copies of transcript and degree certificate in an official sealed university envelope. The official documents will be compared to the document applicants uploaded for admission review. Any alterations or omission of information on the transcripts submitted to The University of Central Florida could be grounds for the cancellation of your application and/or the withdrawal of the offer of admission. Please note: We do not accept electronic transcripts or degree certificates sent to us from institutions located outside of the U.S. We only accept official hand-delivered and mailed documents. Faxed copies, photocopies, and scanned e-mailed attachments will be considered unofficial, and will not be accepted. To be official, transcripts and certificates must bear an original seal and/or signature of the school’s registrar or of the appropriate school official or office. Photocopies are not acceptable. Test scores and course-by-course evaluation with GPA calculation from WES/Josef Silny & Associates, Inc submitted in support of the student’s application must be official. To be official, test scores and evaluations must be requested to be sent to UCF College of Graduate Studies directly from the testing agencies and evaluation companies. If official transcripts and certificates are going to be sent to UCF College of Graduate Studies using WES or Josef Silny services, please be aware that any information included in the official evaluation we receive from WES or Josef Silny will become your official record at UCF and can be used for any academic purposes at UCF. NOTE: Student records, including your transcripts and certification of degree, submitted to the university become the property of the university and cannot be returned to or copied for the student or released to a third party. Please do not send your only original copy of your transcripts/degree certificate. If you have questions about your documents prior to submission, please contact our evaluators at gradevals@ucf.edu. The university does not consider documents certified by a notary public or commissioner of oaths to be official. Coursework completed at one institution but listed on the record of a second institution is not acceptable. A separate copy of the record from the first institution is required. If these documents are written in a language other than English, a certified translation in English must be provided together with the original language records. Any translated record should be a literal and not an interpretive translation. If a student is missing any documentation or other required information, an evaluator will contact the student by e-mail to request additional documentation or information. In the case that a student is missing documentation or information, the evaluation process will be placed on hold until the university has received all necessary documentation. All students are advised to submit all required documentation as early as possible so as to not delay the evaluation process. In the event that the university receives documentation that is questionable, or suspicious in any way, the university will verify authenticity with the issuing institution. If an institution must be contacted for verification, the evaluation process will be placed on hold until the university has received all the necessary information. Academic credentials should be mailed to: UCF College of Graduate Studies Millican Hall, Room 230 PO Box 160112 Orlando, FL 32816-0112 If sending through FEDEX/UPS: UCF College of Graduate Studies 4365 Andromeda Loop N. Millican Hall, Room 230 Orlando, FL 32816-0112 Test Scores All test scores must be received directly from the relevant testing agency to be considered official. Please note GRE and GMAT scores are only valid for 5 years, TOEFL and IELTS for 2 years from the original testing date. It can take 4 to 6 weeks for the university to receive test scores. Keep this in mind when scheduling your test. Scores must be received by the university before the application deadline. Request the appropriate testing agency to send your scores directly to UCF using the UCF institution codes listed below. Minimum UCF Requirement for GRE/GMAT Please speak directly with your program’s director to determine if that program has any specific minimum GRE/GMAT score requirements. Minimum UCF Requirement for TOEFL/IELTS TOEFL iBT score of 80 IELTS band score of 6.5 Please note, some programs may require higher TOEFL or IELTS scores. You should arrange to take the TOEFL/IELTS exam before submitting your online application for admission. It is important that ALL sections of the test be taken to ensure proper reporting of your scores. The following applicants are exempt from the TOEFL or IELTS requirements: those who are from countries where English is the only official language; those who have earned a degree from a regionally accredited U.S. college or university; those who have earned a degree from a country where English is the only official language; those who have earned a degree from a university at which English is the only official language of instruction; or those who have successfully completed UCF English Language Institute Level 8 or higher with a grade of “B” or better at UCF Global. Admission decisions will not be made until official TOEFL/IELTS scores are received. It takes 4 to 6 weeks for the university to receive test scores. Keep this in mind when scheduling your test. Scores must be received by the university before the application deadline. Request that your score is sent directly to UCF using the UCF institution codes listed above. UCF Institution Codes GRE and TOEFL: 5233 GMAT: RZT-HT-58 Contact Information GRE Services GMAT Services TOEFL Services IELTS English Language Testing System UCF Test Prep Test Preparation Courses UCF Test Prep offers exam review and preparation courses in GRE, GMAT, and LSAT as well as other graduate and professional certification exams. Visit www.testprep.ucf.edu for details. For more information about the admission process for international students please visit the UCF Global site. Ready to Apply? Start Your Online Application Modules Skip Navigation myUCF ETD Webcourses Chat With Us Knights Email Aurora Gradinfo GFS Assistantships Resources Skip Navigation About the College Graduate Catalog Campus Map Academic Calendar Forms and References FAQ Office Hours Phone: 407-823-2766 Fax: 407-823-6442 Office Location: Millican Hall Room 230 4365 Andromeda Loop N. Orlando, FL. 32816-0112 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 160112, Orlando, FL 32816-0112 2022 © College of Graduate Studies | Accreditation | grad_web@ucf.edu