Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Policies & Forms » Grievances Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Student Grievance Procedures The University of Cincinnati Graduate Grievance Procedures resolve disputes involving graduate students in a fair and collegial manner and within the department if possible. Students are encouraged to seek assistance from the University Ombuds Office for possible resolution before the formal grievance process. These Graduate Student Grievance Procedures supersede all former Graduate Student Grievance Procedures. They do not supplant the University of Cincinnati Student Code of Conduct. In the interest of fairness, grievances shall not proceed during the summer months unless all involved parties agree to proceed during the summer. Grievance procedures and timetables will be suspended on the last day of spring semester and resume on the first day of fall semester. Grievances filed after the end of spring semester will be held until the beginning of the fall semester. Applicability Withdrawal of Grievance Definitions and Assumptions Process Overview Grievance Steps Appeal Process Graduate School Grievance "Form A" (PDF) To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download. Applicability These procedures apply to any of the following grievances by graduate students who have matriculated in any graduate program at the University of Cincinnati, with the exception of the MD, PharmD and JD programs: grievances alleging improper dismissal or suspension from a graduate program; grievances alleging the improper withholding or termination of financial support of any kind; grievances alleging any other improper treatment, either substantive or procedural, of a graduate student by a faculty member or university agency except: allegations of improper evaluation of the quality and/or quantity of academic work; allegations of unfair recommendation for employment or further graduate study; allegations of discriminatory treatment arising from the student complainant's age, race, gender, sexual preference, handicap, national origin or religion. (Allegations of discrimination or sexual harassment are handled by the UC Office of Equal Opportunity and Access.) Withdrawal of Grievance A grievant may withdraw his or her grievance from further consideration at any time by submitting a written request to the administrator with whom the grievance was originally filed. No reason needs to be given for such a request. Upon receipt of a request to withdraw the grievance, the administrator will notify all involved parties and administrators in writing that the grievance has been withdrawn and that the grievance process is terminated. Definitions and Assumptions Burden of Persuasion: The grievant (the person who made the complaint) is responsible for providing the evidence to back up his or her complaint. GRC: Grievance Review Committee. Participants: Anyone involved in a grievance situation may submit a challenge claiming that a facilitator or committee member is biased or somehow involved in the complaint and is therefore not disinterested. The challenge must be submitted in writing to the appointing administrator within two (2) days after notification of the facilitator or committee member's appointment. The challenge must specify the reasons that would prevent the person from being unbiased in this case. If the challenge is determined to be valid by the appointing administrator, a substitute appointment will be made and the process will continue. Party: A party is an individual grievant (the person who made the complaint) or the individual or unit grieved against (the person or the unit that is the subject of the complaint). Rules: At all levels of review, unless stated otherwise, the committees and individuals defined in the guidelines below have the freedom to create their own rules of procedure, as long as those rules meet requirements of fundamental fairness. Time Limits: Time limits are calculated during working days of the fall and spring semesters. Exam weeks and university holidays do not count toward the time limit. Grievances originally filed after the end of the spring semester will be heard at the beginning of the following fall semester. For example, a grievance filed after the end of the spring 2019 semester will be heard at the beginning of the fall 2019 semester. Any stated time limit may be extended with the prior written consent of the grievant (the person who made the complaint) and appointing administrator. Replace with your text Unit: Program, department or other administrative unit within a college. Process Overview 1. Grievance Filing The student files a written grievance on Form A (PDF). This must be done within 90 days of the alleged improper treatment. (To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download.) 2. Conference Review Each grievance begins with a mediation process. A facilitator is appointed within 10 working days of receipt of Form A. The facilitator holds a Conference Review which may continue for up to 15 working days after his or her appointment. If not resolved, go to Step 3: Fact-Finding. 3. Fact-finding A Grievance Review Committee (GRC) is appointed within 30 working days of receipt of Conference Review statement. 4. Decision The GRC issues a report to the appointing administrator within 30 working days of appointment. The administrator renders a decision within 10 working days. If the grievant is dissatisfied, go to Step 5: First Appeal. 5. First Appeal The grievant may appeal the decision within 10 working days of notification of decision. An Appeal Committee is appointed within 10 working days of the appeal. The Appeal Committee meets within 10 working days of its appointment. A written decision is issued within 10 working days of meeting. If the decision is at the College Dean level and the grievant is dissatisfied, go to Step 6: Second Appeal. 6. Second Appeal The grievant may appeal the College Dean's decision within 10 working days of notification of the first appeal decision. No second appeal may be filed if the Dean of the Graduate School made a decision on first appeal. The Dean of the Graduate School's decision is final. OR A second Appeal Committee may be appointed in unusual circumstances at the discretion of the Dean of the Graduate School. Grievance Procedure Step 1. Grievance Filing A graduate student who believes he or she has valid grounds for a grievance applicable to the situations described under Applicability earlier in this document should submit a written and signed grievance on Form A (PDF) within 90 days of the alleged improper treatment, specifying allegations and identifying the individual(s) grieved against. (To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download.) Grievances should be submitted to the appointing administrator as follows: Level 1 - to the unit head for grievances against a faculty member, committee, or an agency associated only with that unit. Level 2 - to the College Dean for grievances against a unit head, faculty members in two or more units of that college, or a college-wide agency. Level 3 - to the Dean of the Graduate School for grievances against faculty members in two or more colleges, a university-wide agency, or a College Dean. Copies of Form A must be sent by the appointing administrator, to the dean responsible for the unit(s) and college involved, and to the Dean of the Graduate School. Step 2. Conference Review Every grievance must be discussed in a Conference Review process. It may not proceed unless this stage has been completed. A. A disinterested facilitator to conduct the review is appointed and identified to all parties in writing (on Form B*) within 10 working days of receipt of Form A. Level 1: The unit head is the appointing administrator who appoints the disinterested facilitator from the unit or college. If the unit head determines that a disinterested facilitator is not available in the unit or college, he/she must document the reasons in a request to the college dean to process the grievance at the next level. Level 2: The dean appoints a disinterested facilitator (from within unit if possible, otherwise from within college) to conduct the review. Level 3: The Dean of the Graduate School appoints a disinterested facilitator (who may be anyone who holds faculty rank in the university) to conduct the review. B. The facilitator meets with the parties individually or together (at the discretion of the facilitator) to attempt to arrive at a resolution which is agreeable to all parties (Form C,* Conference Review Checklist). This review may continue for up to 15 working days after the facilitator is appointed. C. If the grievance is resolved by the Conference Review: The facilitator sends a resolution form (Form D*) signed by all parties to all involved parties, including the Dean of the Graduate School. No written records shall be retained by the facilitator. Original documents must be returned to their source, to another site as agreed in the signed resolution, or to the appointing administrator. All other notes must be destroyed. D. If the grievance is not resolved by the Conference Review, the facilitator sends a notice (Form E*) that the grievance was not resolved to all involved parties, including the Dean of the Graduate School. No written records shall be retained by the facilitator. Original documents must be returned to their source, to another site as agreed in the signed resolution, or to the appointing administrator. All other notes must be destroyed. E. Grievances that are not resolved by the Conference Review proceed to Step 3: Fact-Finding and Step 4: Decision. Under no circumstances may the facilitator be involved in any other stage of the grievance procedures in any capacity. *These forms are for administrative use only. Step 3. Fact Finding A. A Grievance Review Committee (GRC), composed of 3 disinterested faculty members and 2 disinterested graduate students, is appointed within 30 working days of receipt of the Conference Review Non-Resolution Form (Form E*). The appointing administrator must inform all parties of the committee appointments in writing on Form F* within the 30 working days. Level 1: The unit head is the appointing administrator who appoints the GRC from the unit or college. If the unit head determines that a disinterested panel is not available in the unit or college, he/she must document the reasons in a request to the college dean to process the grievance at the next level. Level 2: The College Dean is the appointing administrator who appoints the GRC from the unit or college. If the College Dean determines that a disinterested panel is not available in the unit or college, he/she must document the reasons in a request to the Dean of the Graduate School to process the grievance at the next level. Level 3: The Dean of the Graduate School is the appointing administrator who appoints the GRC from throughout the university. B. The GRC must provide all parties the opportunity to present written and oral information relevant to the grievance to the GRC. (See the Grievance Review Committee Instructions on Form G*.) The GRC may also request information from other sources. Copies of all written information and summaries of pertinent oral information provided to the GRC must be provided to all parties. C. The GRC must issue a report (Form H*) to the appointing administrator within 30 working days of the committee's appointment. The GRC may request a specified extension of time from the appointing administrator, with documented rationale. Extensions may be granted only in unusual circumstances when, at the discretion of the appointing administrator, they are necessary to ensure fairness. The appointing administrator notifies all parties in writing of his or her decision. The report must contain: a statement of committee procedures, a summary of relevant information, including but not limited to documentation of all written and oral information presented to the GRC, relevant university rules and policies, and recommendations and the rationale on which those recommendations are based. *These forms are for administrative use only. Step 4. Decision Within 10 working days of receipt of the GRC report (Form H*), the appointing administrator: Renders a decision in writing to all parties and all involved administrators, with a copy of the GRC report attached OR Notifies all parties and all involved administrators that additional information is being requested from the GRC. If additional information is requested, the GRC must issue an addendum report as requested within 10 working days of the request for additional information and the appointing administrator renders a decision within 10 working days of receipt of the addendum report. Appeal Process First Appeal The grievant may appeal the decision of the Appointing Administrator on the grounds that correct procedure was not followed or on the grounds that the decision was based on errors in fact. No other grounds for appeal are recognized. The grievant must specify the grounds for the appeal. A. The appeal must be submitted in writing within 10 working days of the date of the notification of the decision of the Appointing Administrator, and copies must be simultaneously sent to all parties and involved administrators. Appeal of a decision by a unit head is to the college dean. Appeal of a decision by a college dean is to the Dean of the Graduate School. B. Any other party may submit a brief rebuttal to the appeal addressing only the alleged errors within 10 working days of the date of the appeal. No additional substantive information may be submitted by any party, and the recommendation and decision must be based upon the written record established in the Grievance Review, Fact-Finding and Decision processes. In extraordinary circumstances, and only when new information is available that was unavailable during the Fact-Finding to the party submitting it, new written information may be accepted on appeal at the discretion of the Appeal Committee or Dean of the Graduate School as appropriate. C. Within 10 working days of receipt of an appeal the college dean or Dean of the Graduate School (as appropriate): appoints an Appeal Committee consisting of two (2) disinterested faculty and one (1) disinterested graduate student from the college or university, respectively, to review the record and appeal, and provides them with a copy of the appeal and the Appeal Committee Instructions (Form I*). D. Within 30 working days of appointment, the Appeal Committee submits a written recommendation to the College Dean or Dean of the Graduate School (Form H*). E. Within 10 working days from receipt of the Appeal Committee recommendation, the college dean or Dean of the Graduate School issues a written decision to all parties and involved administrators. F. The decision of the Dean of the Graduate School is final. Decisions by a college dean may be appealed to the Dean of the Graduate School (see Second Appeal). *These forms are for administrative use only. Second Appeal Appeal decisions by a college dean may be appealed to the Dean of the Graduate School. A. The appeal must be submitted in writing within 10 working days of the date of the notification of the decision, and copies must be simultaneously sent to all parties and involved administrators. An appeal must specify the grounds for the appeal and/or all alleged errors occurring during the preceding process. B. Any other party may submit a brief rebuttal to the appeal addressing only the alleged errors within 10 working days of the date of the appeal. No additional substantive information may be submitted by any party, and the recommendation and decision must be based upon the written record established in the Grievance Review, Fact-Finding, Decision and First Appeal processes. In extraordinary circumstances, and only when new information is available that was unavailable during the Fact-Finding to the party submitting it, new written information may be accepted on appeal at the discretion of the Dean of the Graduate School. C. Within 10 working days of receipt of an appeal, the Dean of the Graduate School: Renders a final decision and issues it in writing to all parties and involved administrators OR Appoints a new Appeal Committee consisting of two (2) disinterested faculty and one (1) disinterested graduate student from the university to review the record and the appeal. A second Appeal Committee may be appointed only in unusual circumstances at the discretion of the Dean of the Graduate School. Within 30 working days of appointment, the Appeal Committee submits a written recommendation to the Dean of the Graduate School. Within 10 working days from receipt of the Appeal Committee recommendation, the Dean of the Graduate School issues a written decision to all parties and involved administrators. D. The decision of the Dean of the Graduate School is final. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top