Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Academics Academics Quick Links Course Schedules Forms Key Dates From understanding policies to conducting research to writing your thesis or dissertation, the Graduate School's academic policies are designed to help you attain your educational and career goals. Programs & Contacts Connect with one of The University of Texas at Austin's graduate programs, an admission coordinator, a graduate adviser or a graduate coordinator. Read More Milestones From degree requirements to estimated timelines, learn about the milestones that shape doctoral study. Read More Academic & Registration Policies The 99-Hour Rule. Registration procedures. Extension credit. Leaves of absence. Get answers to your questions about academic and registration policy at the Graduate School. Read More Research Many graduate students conduct research at some point during their course of study. Graduate School policies help student-researchers learn to do it well. Read More Theses & Dissertations From oral examinations to advancing to candidacy, see what’s required with respect to your thesis or dissertation. Read More Graduation Once your degree requirements are nearly complete, it's time to start thinking about graduation. Learn about deadlines, convocation and other topics. Read More Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022