Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Events Education Research Seminar: Cognition and Performance: Problem Solving in Genetics Education Research Seminar: Cognition and Performance: Problem Solving in Genetics October 19, 2018 @ 10:00 am - 11:00 am This event has passed. Dr. Jenny Knight, a specialist in education research at the University of Colorado, Boulder, will speak about her research on how students solve problems. Open to the public. No registration required. Hosted by the Center for Teaching Innovation. Summary: We are studying how students independently solve complex genetics problems through written documentation of their problem-solving processes. We analyze their answers for correctness, use of reasoning, and other cognitive and metacognitive processes, and also measure whether giving students content “hints” improves their performance. We are particularly interested in whether certain processes correlate with correct answers, and whether the sequence of thinking a student engages in influences their problem-solving ability. Ideally, this work will lead to an understanding of how to better help students become life-long problem-solvers. + Add to Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Date: October 19, 2018 Time: 10:00 am - 11:00 am Event Category: Future Faculty and Academic Careers Organizer Center for Teaching Innovation Phone: 607-255-7224 Email: cornellcti@cornell.edu View Organizer Website Other Topic Teaching Development Focus Area Build Your Skills Transferable Skills Teaching & Mentoring Venue 401 Physical Sciences Building 245 East Avenue Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Related Events Learning Community on Inclusive Teaching Begins June 2 @ 1:00 pm - 2:20 pm Pathways to Success Symposium June 8 @ 9:30 am - 3:30 pm 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote June 21 @ 11:00 am - 1:00 pm Event Navigation « Scholarship of Teaching and Learning Practitioner Workshop University-Wide GET SET Teaching Conference » Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022