Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Integrative Studies A.M. Sc.M. school Graduate School Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Integrative Studies is open to students proposing scholarly work that crosses disciplinary boundaries and cannot be accommodated within an existing doctoral program offering a master's degree. Brown University has a long tradition of creating, encouraging and fostering interdisciplinary and multi-disciplinary programs. It is possible to apply for permission to enroll as a master's student pursuing integrative graduate study. The application process depends on whether the individual is already enrolled in a degree-granting program at Brown, as is detailed in the Graduate School Handbook. It is incumbent on the individual to propose a self–designed plan of study leading to either the master of arts or the master of science. Evidence of Brown faculty support is required, per handbook guidelines. The Graduate Council will review the completed application package for approval. Those interested in pursuing integrative studies as a doctoral student may learn more at the Ph.D. in Integrative Studies page. Admission Information Inquire If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Optional; the GRE General Test at home version is accepted TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline April 15, 2022 5th Year Deadline April 15, 2022 Financial Aid No financial aid is available If you have an idea for an integrative studies master's program, please contact Shayna Kessel. Completion Requirements Please see the requirements provided in the Graduate School Handbook. Alumni Careers Learn More Resources Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Integrative Studies Open details for Integrative Studies Bookmark this Page