Skip to content Graduate School Information Contact Apply Menu Information For… Future Students Current Students Postdoctoral Fellows Faculty and Staff Graduate Programs Professional Development Diversity & Mentoring About Meet the Team Events & News Event Calendar News Grad Ram Impact Announcements Search for: Submit Search Close Menu Graduate School Apply Now Information Contact Information For… Future Students Current Students Postdoctoral Fellows Faculty and Staff Graduate Programs Professional Development Diversity & Mentoring About Meet the Team Events & News Event Calendar News Grad Ram Impact Announcements Search for: Submit Search Make a Gift Home » Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Explore Colorado State University Graduate School programs with our finder below. World-class teaching and research work together to produce a top-ranked educational experience for Colorado State University graduate students. CSU is consistently ranked as one of the nation’s top academic institutions in a wide variety of categories – from teaching and learning to research and student achievement in studios, laboratories, and classrooms. CSU is recognized among doctoral universities with very high research activity, commonly referred to as “R1” by Carnegie. Our distinguished faculty are not only creating the latest knowledge, they are sharing it with their students. Application deadlines vary by program. Contact the program’s department for deadline information. All Degree Types Certificate Programs Degree Programs Master's Programs PHD Programs Professional Doctorate Western Regional Graduate Program All Formats Hybrid On-Campus Online Featured Cell and Molecular Biology (M.S.) Cell and Molecular Biology On-Campus Featured Cell and Molecular Biology (Ph.D.) Cell and Molecular Biology On-Campus Featured Cell and Molecular Biology (Ph.D.) – Cancer Biology Specialization Cell and Molecular Biology On-Campus Featured Ecology (M.S.) Graduate Degree Program in Ecology On-Campus Featured Ecology (Ph.D.) Graduate Degree Program in Ecology On-Campus Featured Master of Sport Management (M.S.M.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format Online Featured Materials Science and Engineering (M.S.) School of Advanced Materials Discovery On-Campus Featured Materials Science and Engineering (Ph.D.) School of Advanced Materials Discovery On-Campus Featured Microbiome Science and Engineering (Certificate) Cell and Molecular Biology On-Campus Featured Molecular, Cellular, and Integrative Neurosciences Program Molecular, Cellular & Integrative Neurosciences Program On-Campus Featured Public Health (M.P.H.) School of Public Health On-Campus Accountancy (M.Acc.) College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Accountancy (M.Acc.) – Data Analytics and Systems Specialization College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Accountancy (M.Acc.) – Financial Analysis, Auditing, and Reporting Specialization College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Accountancy (M.Acc.) – Taxation Specialization College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Addiction Counseling in Psychology (M.A.C.P.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Advanced Clinical Behavioral Health (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Advanced Manufacturing (Certificate) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Advanced Silviculture (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources Online Adventure Tourism (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Aerospace Engineering (Certificate) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Agribusiness and Food Innovation Management (M.A.F.I.M.) College of Agricultural Sciences Hybrid Agricultural and Resource Economics (M.S.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Agricultural and Resource Economics (Ph.D.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Agricultural Sciences (M.Agr.) – Integrated Resource Management Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences Online Agricultural Sciences (M.Agr.) – Teacher Development Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Animal Sciences (M.S.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Animal Sciences (Ph.D.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Anthropology (M.A.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Anthropology (M.A.) – Humans and the Environment Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Anthropology (M.A.) – International Development Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Anthropology (M.A.) – Professional Methods and Techniques Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Anthropology (M.A.) – The Anthropology of Health and Wellbeing Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Anthropology (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Applied Developmental Science (Ph.D.) College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Applied Finance (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Applied Global Stability (Certificate) – Agriculture School of Global Environmental Sustainability Online Applied Global Stability (Certificate) – Natural Resources School of Global Environmental Sustainability Online Applied Global Stability (Certificate) – Water Resources School of Global Environmental Sustainability Online Applied Industrial/Organizational Psychology (M.I.O.P.) College of Natural Sciences Online Applied Investments (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Applied Positive Psychology (Certificate) College of Natural Sciences Online Applied Statistics (M.A.S.) – Data Science Specialization College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Online Applied Statistics (M.A.S.) – Statistical Science Specialization College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Online Art (M.F.A.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Arts Leadership and Cultural Management (M.A.L.C.M.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Atmospheric Science (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Atmospheric Science (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (M.S.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (M.S.) – Entomology Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (M.S.) – Pest Management Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (M.S.) – Plant Pathology Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (M.S.) – Weed Science Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (Ph.D.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (Ph.D.) – Entomology Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (Ph.D.) – Plant Pathology Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Bioagricultural Sciences (Ph.D.) – Weed Science Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Biochemistry (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Biochemistry (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Bioengineering (M.S.) School of Biomedical Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Bioengineering (Ph.D.) School of Biomedical Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Biological Data Analytics (P.S.M.) – Specialization College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Biological Science (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Biological Science (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Biomanufacturing and Biotechnology (P.S.M.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering (Certificate) School of Biomedical Engineering On-Campus Online Biomedical Sciences (M.S.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Biomedical Sciences (M.S.) – Anatomical and Physiological Sciences Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Biomedical Sciences (M.S.) – Reproductive Technology Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Biomedical Sciences (Ph.D.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Business Administration (M.B.A.) – Evening MBA College of Business On-Campus Business Administration (M.B.A.) – Impact Specialization College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Business Administration (M.B.A.) – Online MBA College of Business Online Business Administration (M.B.A.) – Online MBA, Marketing Data Analytics College of Business Online Business Application Development (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Business Information Systems (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Business Intelligence (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Business Management (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Campus Crisis Management (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Carbon Management (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Chemical Engineering (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Chemical Engineering (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Chemistry (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Civil Engineering (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Civil Engineering (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Clinical Sciences (M.S.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Clinical Sciences (Ph.D.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Communication (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Communication and Technology (Certificate) College of Liberal Arts Online Communication Studies (M.A.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Communication Studies (M.A.) – Deliberative Practices Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Communications and Media Management (M.C.M.M.) College of Liberal Arts Online Communications for Conservation (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources Online Computer Engineering (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Computer Engineering (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Computer Information Systems (M.C.I.S.) College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Computer Science (M.C.S.) College of Natural Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Computer Science (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Computer Science (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Computer Systems Engineering (Certificate) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Conflict Resolution and Mediation (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Conservation Actions with Lands, Animals, and People (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources Online Conservation Leadership (M.C.L.) Warner College of Natural Resources | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Construction Management (M.S.) College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Corporate Finance (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Counseling and Career Development (M.A.) College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Creative Writing (M.F.A.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Cybersecurity (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Data Analysis (Certificate) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Online Data Engineering (Certificate) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Design and Merchandising (M.S.) – Apparel and Merchandising Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Design and Merchandising (M.S.) – Interior Design Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Ecology (M.S.) – Human Environment Interactions Specialization Graduate Degree Program in Ecology On-Campus Economics (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Ecosystem Science and Sustainability (P.S.M.) Warner College of Natural Resources | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Ecosystem Sustainability (M.S.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Ecosystem Sustainability (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Education and Human Resource Studies (M.Ed.) – Adult Education and Training Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Education and Human Resource Studies (M.Ed.) – Education Sciences Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences Education and Human Resource Studies (M.Ed.) – Organizational Learning, Performance and Change Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Online Education and Human Resource Studies (Ph.D.) – Education, Equity, and Transformation Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Education and Human Resource Studies (Ph.D.) – Higher Education Leadership Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences Online Education and Human Resource Studies (Ph.D.) – Organizational Learning, Performance and Change Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences Online Electrical Engineering (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Electrical Engineering (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Embedded Systems (Certificate) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Engineering (M.E.) – Biomedical Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Engineering (M.E.) – Chemical Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Engineering (M.E.) – Civil Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Engineering (M.E.) – Computer Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Engineering (M.E.) – Electrical Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Engineering (M.E.) – Mechanical Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Engineering (M.E.) – Systems Engineering Specialization Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online English (M.A.) – English Education Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus English (M.A.) – Literature Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus English (M.A.) – Teaching English as a Foreign or Second Language (TESL/TEFL) Specialization College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus English (M.A.) – Writing, Rhetoric, and Social Change Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Environmental Health (M.S.) – Environmental Health and Safety Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Environmental Health (M.S.) – Environmental Health, Occupational Ergonomics and Safety Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Environmental Health (M.S.) – Epidemiology Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Environmental Health (M.S.) – Industrial Hygiene Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Environmental Health (Ph.D.) – Environmental Health, Occupational Ergonomics and Safety Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Environmental Health (Ph.D.) – Epidemiology Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Environmental Health (Ph.D.) – Industrial Hygiene Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Extension Education (M.Ext.Ed.) College of Agricultural Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format Online Facilitating Adult Learning (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Online Finance (M.Fin.) College of Business | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Fish, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology (M.F.W.C.B.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Fish, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology (M.S.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Fish, Wildlife, and Conservation Biology (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Food Science and Nutrition (M.S.) – Food Science Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Food Science and Nutrition (M.S.) – Nutrition Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Food Science and Nutrition (Ph.D.) – Food Science Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Food Science and Nutrition (Ph.D.) – Nutrition Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Forest Sciences (M.S.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Forest Sciences (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus French Linguistics and Literary Studies (Certificate) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Gender, Power and Difference (Certificate) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Geosciences (M.S.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Geosciences (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Health and Exercise Science (M.S.) College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus High Impact On-Demand Learning Solutions (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online History (M.A.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus History (M.A.) – Liberal Arts Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus History (M.A.) – Public History – Historic Preservation Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus History (M.A.) – Public History Specialization, Cultural Resource Management & Historic Preservation Option College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Horticulture (M.S.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Horticulture (M.S.) Horticulture and Human Health Specialization College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Online Horticulture (Ph.D.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Horticulture and Human Health (Certificate) Interdisciplinary On-Campus Online Human Bioenergetics (Ph.D.) College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Human Development and Family Studies (M.S.) – Marriage and Family Therapy Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Human Development and Family Studies (M.S.) – Prevention Science Specialization College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Human Dimensions of Natural Resources (M.S.) – Conservation Leadership Specialization Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Human Dimensions of Natural Resources (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Human-Centered Design Thinking (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Information Technology Project Management (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Journalism and Media Communication (M.S.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Languages, Literatures, and Cultures (M.A.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Languages, Literatures, and Cultures (M.A.) – Spanish Specialization College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Marketing Management (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Mathematics (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Mathematics (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Mechanical Engineering (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Mechanical Engineering (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Media Communication (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Microbiology (M.S.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Online Microbiology (Ph.D.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Microscope Imaging Technology (P.S.M.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Music (M.M.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Music (M.M.) – Choral Conducting Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Music (M.M.) – Composition Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Music (M.M.) – Instrumental Conducting Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Music (M.M.) – Music Education Conducting Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Online Music (M.M.) – Music Education Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Online Music (M.M.) – Music Therapy Specialization College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Music Therapy (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Natural Resources Stewardship (M.N.R.S.) – Ecological Restoration Specialization Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Natural Resources Stewardship (M.N.R.S.) – Forest Sciences Specialization Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Natural Resources Stewardship (M.N.R.S.) – Western Ranch Management and Ecosystem Stewardship Specialization Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Natural Sciences Education (M.N.S.E.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Online Nonprofit Administration (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Nutrition Sciences (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Occupation and Rehabilitation Science (Ph.D.) College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Occupational Therapy (OTD) College of Health and Human Sciences On-Campus Organizational Leadership (Certificate) College of Business On-Campus Online Pathology (Ph.D.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Philosophy (M.A.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Physics (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Physics (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Political Science (M.A.) – Environmental Politics and Policy Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Political Science (M.A.) – Political Analysis Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Political Science (M.A.) – Power, Justice, and Democracy Specialization College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Political Science (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Political Science (Ph.D.) – Environmental Politics and Policy Specialization College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Postsecondary Access and Success Programs (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online PreK-12 School Social Worker (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Prevention Program Planning and Evaluation (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Psychology (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Psychology (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Public Policy Analysis (Certificate) College of Liberal Arts Online Public Policy and Administration (M.P.P.A.) College of Liberal Arts | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Radiological and Nuclear Safety (Certificate) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences On-Campus Radiological Health Sciences (M.S.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Radiological Health Sciences (M.S.) – Health Physics Specialization College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Radiological Health Sciences (Ph.D.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Rangeland Ecosystem Science (M.S.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Rangeland Ecosystem Science (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Ski Area Management (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Social Aspects of Human-Animal Interaction (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Social Work (MSW) College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format Hybrid Social Work (Ph.D.) College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Sociology (M.A.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Sociology (Ph.D.) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Soil and Crop Sciences (M.S.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Soil and Crop Sciences (Ph.D.) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Spanish Linguistics and Literary Studies (Certificate) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Statistics (M.S.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Statistics (Ph.D.) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Student Affairs Administration (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Student Affairs in Higher Education (M.S.) College of Health and Human Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Online Student Affairs Management of Auxiliary Enterprises (Certificate) College of Health and Human Sciences Online Substance Use Disorder Identification and Treatment (Certificate) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Online Sustainable Military Lands Management (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources Online Systems Engineering (D.Eng.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Systems Engineering (M.S.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Systems Engineering (Ph.D.) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Systems Engineering Practice (Certificate) Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering On-Campus Online Teaching in Extension (Certificate) College of Agricultural Sciences On-Campus Online TESOL Education (Certificate) College of Liberal Arts On-Campus Theory and Application of Regression Models (Certificate) College of Natural Sciences On-Campus Online Tourism Management (M.T.M.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Online Toxicology (M.S.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Toxicology (Ph.D.) College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Urban Agriculture (Certificate) College of Agricultural Sciences Online Water Resources (Certificate) Warner College of Natural Resources Online Watershed Science (M.S.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Watershed Science (Ph.D.) Warner College of Natural Resources On-Campus Zoo, Aquarium, and Animal Shelter Management (P.S.M.) College of Natural Sciences | Western Regional Graduate Program eligible for the on-campus format On-Campus Colleges Agricultural Sciences Business Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Morgan Library Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Schools & Programs Graduate School International Programs School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Public Health School of Social Work Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs Cell and Molecular Biology Graduate Degree Program in Ecology School of Advanced Materials Discovery School of Biomedical Engineering School of Public Health Make a Gift Apply to CSU Accessibility Equal Opportunity Disclaimer Privacy Search CSU © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA