Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School Student Research Colloquium Hours Mon-Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. (CST) Phone 918-631-2336 1-800-882-4723 Location Lorton Hall, Room 201 Map Contact Us https://youtu.be/OZ5Tmkn_J7w RESEARCH COLLOQUIUM About the Research Colloquium Colloquium Agenda Video Competition Oral Presentations Special Topic Symposia Colloquium Sponsors The Student Research Colloquium was established in 1998 to provide TU students with an opportunity to gain public speaking experience, learn about research from fields outside their own academic discipline, and experience judging methods used by professional organizations for national and international meetings/conferences. This year’s event is scheduled for March 28, 2022 – April 1, 2022. Submissions will start being accepted at the beginning of the Spring 2022 semester and will be due Monday, February 14th. WHO MAY PARTICIPATE? Any TU student who is involved in a research project for any discipline. WHAT EVENTS ARE AVAILABLE? Oral presentations and video competition WHAT SORT OF RESEARCH IS CONSIDERED ACCEPTABLE? Presentations may contain original research or scholarship that you may be conducting, work that you already submitted for a classroom project during the previous fall semester, or work in progress for the Spring semester. Some students also use the Colloquium as an opportunity to present research proposals or scholarships for which they are contemplating an in-depth study. Research does not have to be experimentally based. Humanities, business, engineering, legal, physical sciences, and social science topics are all welcome. QUESTIONS? For more information, contact the Research Colloquium Committee at research-colloquium@utulsa.edu. HELP US CONGRATULATE THE 2022 RESEARCH COLLOQUIUM WINNERS Video Competition winners: Danita Mathew (winner)-$250 Emma Daharsh (honorable mention)-$100 Oral Competition winners: Julian Abhari (1st—tied)-$250 Gabriel Santos (1st—tied)-$250 Logan Guthrie (2nd—tied)-$200 Ellie Smith (2nd—tied)-$200 Grant Mayberry (3rd)-$150 Emily Schumacher (honorable mention)-$100 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT