This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Skip to content Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. Graduate Studies About Tech Academics & Research Cost & Funding Admissions Student Information News & Events FAQs Faculty & Staff Graduate Studies Application You are about to take the first step toward pursuing a graduate education — and we're delighted that you're considering pursuing it at Georgia Tech. We recommend you visit our Frequently Asked Questions for more information about our application process and requirements. Since each graduate program has its own set of criteria, it is important that you are prepared and ready to submit all of the required documents prior to the application deadline. If you have any questions or technical difficulties with the graduate application process, you can send an email to grad.ask@gatech.edu How to Start a New ApplicationWhen selecting your application type, make sure the correct academic year is selected: Select Fall 2022 - Summer 2023 if you want to apply for fall 2022, spring 2023, or summer 2023 semesters. Select Fall 2021 - Summer 2022 if you want to apply for the summer 2022 semester. Returning users: Log in First-time users: Create an account Facebook YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Login