Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Advisers & Coordinators Advisers & Coordinators Graduate advisers and coordinators are vital to the success of graduate students enrolled at The University of Texas at Austin. The Graduate School provides information and resources you need to support your students throughout their academic careers. Graduate Coordinator Network The Graduate Coordinator Network is a nonprofit, voluntary, professional association of graduate coordinators representing graduate students in a range of programs. Read More Milestones Information Students seeking a Ph.D. at UT System institutions sign, with their departments, agreements providing the expected timelines for the attainment of their academic milestones and graduation. Read More Select Admission Program The Select Admission Program relies on nominations to encourage undergraduate students with top academic records to remain at the university for a graduate degree. Read More 2017 Report on Graduate Education Report by the THECB on managing the expansion of graduate education. Read More Recruitment Tools & Information Application Instructions Preview information for students interested in applying to the Graduate School. Admissions & Enrollment Statistics Read reports detailing admissions and enrollment facts. Conditional Admissions Petitions Information on how to request removal of conditions set to admission. Graduate Admission Offer Letters Review the guidelines and the offer letter template to promote and support their consistent implementation across graduate programs, colleges and schools. Course & Catalog Information Academic Calendar Find key dates related to academics. Graduate Calendar Review key dates for students in master’s and doctoral programs. General Information Catalog Get general information about the university and rules that affect all students. Course Schedules Read schedules of detailing course offerings, dates and times. Graduate Catalog Review degree requirements, rules that affect graduate students, descriptions of graduate courses and more. Handbook of Operating Procedures (HOP) Access the university's governing policies. Updates to the Graduate Catalog Changes to policies described in the Graduate Catalog may require the approval of the Graduate Dean, Graduate Assembly, Provost and/or President of the University, UT System, Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB), and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). Quick Links EASI GSIS Canvas Link Library Staff Responsibilities Recruitment Brochure 2017 Report on Graduate Education International Travel Policies Administrative Roster (ARR) Graduate Studies Committee (GSC) Membership Update Reports and Reviews Faculty Committee Reports (All Records) Candidacy Admin List Decentralized Fellowships Graduate Program Review Materials (PDF) Graduate Program Review Schedules (PDF) Doctoral Exit Survey Dashboard Information for Graduating Students Forms Evaluation Decisions for Doctoral Defense Report on Doctoral Dissertation (PDF) Oral Examinations Doctoral Candidacy Master’s Candidates Graduation Graduate Studies Committee (GSC) List and Search Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022