Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Dissertation/Thesis Information » FAQ Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Frequently Asked Questions Thesis/Dissertation Formatting Questions How do I format my thesis/dissertation? right arrow down arrow See the Formatting Guidelines page for details on how to format your thesis/dissertation. How do I convert my Word document to PDF? right arrow down arrow The ProQuest Support Center website explains how to create a PDF with embedded fonts in their guide, Preparing Your Manuscript for Submission (Including Supplemental Files). Encrypted files are not acceptable. (To view this document, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download.) I don't have a full version of Adobe Acrobat. What do I do? right arrow down arrow If you do not own Adobe Acrobat, you have several options. You can: Visit any of the UCIT computer labs or the Langsam Library Student Technology Resources Center. Make an appointment with the Graduate School Helpdesk by calling 513-556-1496. Download the trial version of Adobe Acrobat X Pro from Adobe's website. This trial provides all of the necessary features for ETD preparation but expires after 30 days. Use the Adobe Online PDF Maker. This service allows you to make five free trial conversions with registration and unlimited conversions for $9.99/month. ETD Publishing Questions How will people be able to access my ETD? right arrow down arrow Your ETD will be indexed by Google and other search engines for download on the internet. It will also be available in the University of Cincinnati library catalog. Where is my ETD published? (MASTER'S) right arrow down arrow Your thesis is published on the internet through OhioLINK, the Ohio Library and Information Network. Publishing to OhioLINK does not cost any money. Your thesis will appear on this website after you complete the Graduation Checklist. You can also publish your thesis to ProQuest/UMI; for more information, see "What is ProQuest/UMI?" Where is my ETD published? (DOCTORAL) right arrow down arrow Your dissertation is published on the internet through OhioLINK, the Ohio Library and Information Network. Publishing to OhioLINK does not cost any money. Your dissertation is also published to PROQUEST/UMI, the University of Michigan Index. UMI does charge publication fees; see "How much does it cost to publish my document to UMI?" for applicable rates. Your dissertation will appear on these two websites after you complete the Graduation Checklist. How much does it cost to publish my document to UMI? right arrow down arrow Publishing to UMI is free. If you choose to have UMI get a copyright from the US Copyright Office on your behalf, you will be charged an additional $55. For information about your publishing options, see "What do I need to know about signing agreements with publishers?" Why would I want to make my ETD freely available? right arrow down arrow The world of scholarship depends on people making their research available to others. When this is done electronically, more people receive access at a lower cost, and more knowledge transfer occurs. This stimulates education and research. Your research is also more likely to be cited in other publications, which adds to your prestige and aids your future advancement. Before theses and dissertations were available electronically, not many were read. Electronic access multiplies the number of times works are read by a factor of ten or more. Because you spent a great deal of time on your research, you should be encouraged that others are reading your work. Your research may guide others, and your results may save others the time of redoing your study. What is an embargo? Should I request an embargo? right arrow down arrow An embargo is a delay in making a work publicly available. Your title and abstract will be available to the public, but the full text of your pdf document will be hidden for a period of time. You can embargo for up to two years at a time for a total of five years. At that time, your pdf will be released to the internet. You might choose to embargo because of a patent application or a pending publication in a journal. You should talk with your advisor about whether to embargo. You should also speak with any publisher of your thesis/dissertation work regarding the rules and restrictions of publication when a text is already publicly available. You can request to embargo your document within the ETD submission process. Your chair will approve the embargo request when you have submitted your ETD. What are my copyright options? right arrow down arrow On OhioLINK, there are three types of copyright to choose from: OhioLINK Permissions Your thesis or dissertation will be available under the Fair Use terms of copyright law. In addition, you may choose to allow additional use of your paper via a Creative Commons license. • Copyright, all rights reserved. My ETD may be used only under the terms of Fair Use. This may be required by third-party publishers you work with to publish your paper commercially. • Copyright, some rights reserved. My ETD may be copied and distributed only for non-commerical purposes and may not be modified. All use must give me credit as the original author. [This is the Creative Commons "Atrribution – Noncommercial – No Derivative Works" license.] • Copyright, some rights reserved. My ETD may be copied and distributed only for non-commercial purposes and may be modified only if the modified version is distributed with these same permissions. All use must give me credit as the original author. [This is the Creative Commons "Attribution – Noncommercial – Share Alike" license.] Learn more about Fair Use of copyrights and about Creative Commons licenses. Consult your advisor about which copyright is best for you. If you are a doctoral student or a master's student publishing to UMI, you can opt to purchase a copyright with the U.S. Copyright Office. This is a government-backed copyright and requires an additional charge; see "How much does it cost to publish my document to UMI?" What is ProQuest/UMI? right arrow down arrow ProQuest maintains a microform archive of approximately 1.5 million dissertations, as well as an online service called Dissertation Abstracts. Most dissertations written in the US are submitted to ProQuest for archiving, and all work received since 1996 is available online. ProQuest also functions as an on-demand book publisher that eliminates the editorial process and provides copyright advice. What is an ORCID? right arrow down arrow An ORCID is a free, unique researcher identifier that allows authors to mark all of their work with a persistent digital signature. For more information on ORCID please see, "Make Your Research Mark with ORCID" What if I want to write a book related to my thesis or dissertation? right arrow down arrow Because publishers vary widely in their policies, you should tell your publisher that your work is available on OhioLINK. You may want to embargo your work for a year or two until your publication comes out. For embargo information, see "What is an embargo? Should I request an embargo?" The electronic release of early versions of a book generally leads to greater sales. Indeed, showing a publisher the large number of electronic accesses to your work may help you land a book contract. We are open to discussions with publishers regarding policies or helping in the publicity process. What if I want to have a journal article as a chapter in my thesis? right arrow down arrow First, you can simply cite the publication in your references. Second, if the publication is online, you can link to it with permission of your publisher. Third, if your publisher gives you a signed release, you can include the publication in your thesis or dissertation as stated in the release. If your publisher restricts access in the release, possibly to your university, you may want to create two versions of your thesis or dissertation--one with and one without the chapter (e.g., published article) in question. You should discuss your options with your committee and publisher before submission. You can avoid this issue if your thesis or dissertation talks about your research in a very different way from the published article. Because articles are typically short, your thesis or dissertation may be the only place where the details, data, tables and other aspects of your research are available. What do I need to know about signing agreements with publishers? right arrow down arrow When you publish research in a conference, book or journal, you usually sign an agreement with the publisher. You should read the agreement carefully before signing, making sure you understand and agree with the terms and conditions. If you don't, you may want to change the agreement, possibly with advice of legal or other counsel. The agreement should be explicit about what future rights of use you retain. For example, if you want to include the materials in a dissertation or reuse the materials for teaching, the agreement should document this. You should obtain an agreement that allows you to include your research in a freely available electronic thesis or dissertation. You may also want to discuss matters of timing and revision. You have the right to negotiate with a publisher to reduce access to your ETD for a limited amount of time. However, most publishers consider a thesis or dissertation to be quite different from a journal article. An article is typically much shorter than a chapter or full work and has been revised through the editorial process and peer review. Therefore, many publishers have no concerns regarding fully accessible ETDs. Where can I get a bound copy of my ETD? right arrow down arrow The Graduate School recommends that you purchase bound copies of your ETD from UMI. If you are not publishing to UMI and would like bound copies, you can order them from GradWorks Online, Art Guild Binders, Inc. or Heckman Bindery. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top