Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Finances : Awards Awards The Graduate School coordinates annual award programs to honor outstanding individuals. These awards are generously underwritten by the University Co-op. Awards are presented at the annual Graduate School/University Co-op Awards Banquet each spring. Student Awards Outstanding Dissertation Award The Outstanding Dissertation Award was established in 1979 to recognize exceptional work and to encourage the highest levels of scholarship, research and writing. Outstanding Graduate Student Academic Employee Award The William S. Livingston Outstanding Graduate Student Academic Employee Award honors outstanding performance by graduate student academic employees. Outstanding Master’s Thesis/Report Award The Outstanding Master’s Thesis/Report Award was established in 2003 to recognize exceptional work by master’s students and to encourage the highest levels of scholarship, research, and writing. Professional Awards Outstanding Graduate Teaching Award The Outstanding Graduate Teaching Award recognizes the distinguished teaching of a graduate faculty member. Outstanding Graduate Coordinator Award The Outstanding Graduate Coordinator Award recognizes the exemplary service of a graduate coordinator. Outstanding Graduate Adviser Award The Outstanding Graduate Adviser Award recognizes the exemplary service of a graduate adviser. Outstanding Alumnus Award The Outstanding Alumnus Award recognizes outstanding academic or nonacademic achievements of Graduate School alumni and alumnae since their graduation from UT Austin with a doctoral or master’s degree. Questions If you have questions about the Graduate School Awards, contact Danielle Thoma. Professional Awards Awards Open: November 5, 2021 Awards Close: January 14, 2022 Student Awards Awards Open: January 10, 2022 Awards Close: March 11, 2022 Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022