Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development Set Navigation title in component Preparing Future Faculty Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Professional Development Beyond disciplinary experience and achievements, success in any career requires leadership and interpersonal skills, effective speaking and writing, the ability to engage and network, and wisdom in confronting the societal implications of your work. These pages introduce you to resources at UC and elsewhere that will give you these skills! Academic Development Career Development Communication Engagement Academic Development Graduate students will find opportunities to build their skills as teachers, researchers, scholars and professionals in a variety of contexts at UC. The Center for the Enhancement of Teaching & Learning (CET&L) offers workshops on classroom pedagogy and innovation, assessment, scholarship of teaching and learning, course design, accessibility and gateway instruction. The Preparing Future Faculty graduate certificate program provides instruction in modern teaching and learning and offers rich mentoring experiences to strengthen career skills. The Teaching Effectiveness course covers the theory and practice of effective, learning-focused teaching at the college level. The UC Libraries offer workshops and seminars designed to help students improve their research and technology skills. Career Development Prepare for an academic or professional career. The Academic Job Search course guides students through the entire academic job search and hiring process, from deciphering job postings to negotiating salary and benefits. The Academic Writing Center offers workshops and online resources related to preparing written materials for the academic and professional job search. The Division of Experience-Based Learning and Career Education provides career services that can help you at every stage of the job search with career coaching, a job search board specifically for UC students and alumni, resume critiques, practice interviews and more. Individual Development Plans (IDPs) provide a strategic tool to guide students through career and professional development. Helpful templates are provided to guide students through creating a personalized plan. The Preparing Future Faculty graduate certificate program provides instruction in modern teaching and learning and offers rich mentoring experiences to strengthen career skills. Many workshops offered by the Graduate School and other organizations prepare students for the job search. The Start Smart workshop, offered every fall and spring, teaches graduate students to negotiate salary and benefits. How to Get Hired, offered annually, provides students with best interview practices. Communication Excellent oral and written communication skills are valued by academic programs and employers alike. Take advantage of these free resources at UC to improve your communication skills. The Academic Writing Center offers free writing assistance. Tutors and workshops provide specialized assistance with the writing process and with crafting academic and professional documents. The Center for English as a Second Language (CESL) provides ESL courses to international students. These courses focus on reading and writing skills, oral communication and culture awareness. The Three Minute Thesis Competition encourages students to practice their oral research communication. All participants receive feedback and suggestions for improvement from judges. The Interdisciplinary Dissertation Writing Workshop course is extremely beneficial to students in all stages of thesis or dissertation writing. Engagement Get involved with the UC community, Cincinnati community and your future profession's community. Leverage community involvement for leadership and networking opportunities. UC student organizations offer opportunites for leadership, academic development, professional development and networking. UC's graduate student government (the GSG and GSAs) provides many opportunities for leadership and service to the graduate student community. The Center for Community Engagement connects students with volunteer and service opportunities in the local CIncinnati community. The Annual Student Leadership Conference, hosted every fall by Student Activities & Leadership Development, focuses on individual and group development to support student leaders in their positions and to provide personal and professional development experiences. Travel awards, funded by the GSG, provide graduate students with financial support for attending academic conferences and research-related workshops and seminars. These events often offer excellent networking opportunities. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top