Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Educating parents in order to boost childhood vaccination rates Educating parents in order to boost childhood vaccination rates October 9, 2019 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (and many other reputable health organizations around the world), vaccines are safe and effective for preventing disease at the individual and population levels. So why, given this straightforward, scientifically proven and cost-effective medical intervention are so many children in the United States going unvaccinated and why has that trend been increasing since 2001? The recent eruption of measles in New York City is but one troubling example of the toll the decision to not vaccinate can take. How, many health care workers and public health planners are asking, can childhood vaccination rates be increased? Second-year doctor of nursing practice (DNP) student Shelby Pope believes the answer to the second question resides in education – specifically, by sharing evidence-based data with parents so they can make informed decisions. “Two essential components of modern nursing are communication and patient education,” Pope observed. “Time and again, these have been shown to be central to safe and effective care.” For her family nurse practitioner (FNP) practice-improvement project, Pope – who served in the United States Army as a chaplain’s assistant before becoming a nurse – intends to use these tools to help increase childhood vaccination rates. Social determinants “I have always been pretty passionate about vaccines, even before I decided to go the advanced practice route,” Pope commented. “Vaccines are one of the greatest gifts of modern medicine.” At the heart of Pope’s project is the recognition that various “social determinants” play a significant role in vaccination rates. Researchers, she points out, have shown that children from households below the federal poverty line have lower combine seven-vaccine series coverage (62.8%) compared with children living at or above the poverty line (73.8%). Another influential factor is health insurance. Uninsured families have the lowest vaccination rates (48.5%); those with private insurance have the highest (76%). Methodology In addition to working full time with St. John Clinic Urgent Care in Tulsa, Pope is currently laying the groundwork for her investigation. She intends to set it in a primary care office that has a high ratio of uninsured pediatric patients or in a health department that serves the local community, ideally in or near her present home community of Skiatook. “In either case,” she noted, “it will be important for the quality of my study’s findings and potential impact to ensure diversity in practice types, practice settings and patient populations.” Once Pope has identified and secured a location, the next step will be an initial chart review documenting the ratio of vaccine-compliant patients. “Then, once I have completed the education component, I will conduct a second chart review to compare pre- and post-intervention rates. This comparison will enable me to gauge my project’s effectiveness and identify areas for improvement.” Multimodal education Pope proposes taking a “multimodal educational approach.” This will consist of verbal education for health providers that’s based on the latest research. In addition, Pope is planning for parents to employ visual education using electronic media and written education using printed handouts. For the electronic media portion, Pope has chosen a free app called Vaccines on the Go: What You Should Know, which was developed at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP). Some of the information contained in this app are vaccines and the diseases they prevent, safety concerns associated with vaccines and recommended immunization schedules broken out by age group. “I recognize,” Pope said, “that not everyone will have a computer, smartphone or other mobile devices in order to access this app. Therefore, I’m building into my project the ability for parents to have the option of touring the app on a tablet at the health care office prior to their appointment time.” In addition to using digital technology, Pope will provide printed handouts from CHOP’s Vaccine Education Center. She will also give written instructions on how to find accurate medical information in the internet. Investing in our communities While Pope’s project is driven by science, that is not her only motivation. Her research also is infused with a profound ethical orientation toward what she regards as her professional duty. “If more people aren’t willing to get out into their community, change just isn’t going to happen. You can only talk so much and expect things to happen. And they just don’t. That’s why it’s important for nurse practitioners to invest in their communities and track ‘which of my patients are really struggling?’ and ‘why are they struggling?’ and ‘what do these people have in common?’ and ‘how can I address those issues?’” Now in her second year in TU’s DNP program, Pope transferred here from an online DNP program. Two of the major reasons for her decision were the emphasis at TU on in-class learning and the university’s commitment to arranging career-relevant clinical placements for every student, something that is very challenging for nurse practitioner students. If you are interested in taking your nursing career to the next level, find out more about our ACEN-certified DNP program. Graduate School, Student Stories 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT