Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : Where to Begin Eligibility for Admission Consideration Eligibility for Admission Consideration To be eligible for admission consideration, applicants must meet the Graduate School's minimum requirements. Bachelor's Degree The Graduate School requires applicants to have earned a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited institution in the United States or a comparable degree from a foreign academic institution. 3.0 GPA A grade-point average (GPA) of at least 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) or a comparable GPA in upper-division work—junior- and senior-level courses—and in any graduate work already completed is also required. If your GPA does not meet the minimum requirement—or if you feel that your GPA is not a valid indicator of your ability—you may submit an application, then use the Document Upload System to add a letter explaining your concerns. Official Test Scores (GRE, GMAT, TOEFL, IELTS) Check with the program to which you are applying to see which test you should take. International applicants must take either the TOEFL or the Academic Examination of the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). Adequate Preparation Your records must reflect adequate subject preparation for your proposed graduate major. Additional Program Requirements Individual graduate programs may have more rigorous requirements and may require additional materials. Check with the program to ensure you’re able to meet its requirements and deadlines. Quick Links Application Instructions Your Application Status Contact Admissions Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022