Skip to main content The Graduate School Menu Close About Ask the Dean Protect the GradPack People Mission & Vision Academic Calendar Doctoral Exam Schedule Contact Us Graduate Programs Admissions Financial Support Residency Priority Deadlines Students New Graduate Student Orientation International Students Fellowships and Grants Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Diversity Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) Graduate Peer Mentoring Catalog and Handbook Professional Development Career Support Events Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Responsible Conduct of Research Teaching Support Workshops and Development Series Writing Support Faculty & Staff Forms and Data Slate GSC Resources ABGS Resources Resources for Student Funding Curriculum Development Program Assessment Recruiting Resources Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Alumni & Giving Think Magazine Give Now About About Ask the Dean Protect the GradPack People Mission & Vision Academic Calendar Doctoral Exam Schedule Contact Us Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Admissions Admissions Financial Support Residency Priority Deadlines Students Students New Graduate Student Orientation International Students Fellowships and Grants Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Diversity Graduate Student Support Plan (GSSP) Graduate Peer Mentoring Catalog and Handbook Professional Development Professional Development Career Support Events Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Responsible Conduct of Research Teaching Support Workshops and Development Series Writing Support Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Forms and Data Slate GSC Resources ABGS Resources Resources for Student Funding Curriculum Development Program Assessment Recruiting Resources Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving Think Magazine Give Now Admissions Advance your career with graduate studies at NC State, one of the nation’s leading research universities. Find Your Passion Research is at the heart of our academic mission, and graduate students are the heart of our research. As a master’s or doctoral student at NC State, you’ll help master complex ideas and develop the skills to put them to work solving global challenges. Our faculty are world class and so are our academic offerings: US News and World Report ranks 11 of our graduate programs among the top 30 nationally in their disciplines. Those include top programs in veterinary medicine, statistics, nuclear engineering, textiles, biological and agricultural engineering, business administration, industrial engineering, nonprofit management, materials engineering and chemical engineering. We focus on the acquisition and the application of ideas. NC State graduate students learn from innovative faculty researchers and use newfound knowledge to work alongside the many industry, government and nonprofit partners who collaborate with us. The quality of our graduate student body is a significant reason so many partners seek out NC State to help them tackle global challenges. Master’s and doctoral students are actively engaged in the innovative work of NC State-led federal research hubs, from the creation of a smart energy grid to the smart application of big-data tools, and from the revitalization of American manufacturing to the prevention of nuclear proliferation. Questions? Visit our FAQ page. Explore Our Programs NC State has more than 200 master’s, doctoral and graduate certificate programs. Find one that fits your interests and academic background. Review application deadlines and check program requirements. Applying as a Non-US Citizen Learn more about the additional admission requirements for non-US citizens. Start Your Application Already know which graduate program is right for you? Start your journey here. Degree Evaluations Have a three-year bachelor’s degree? Find out how to get your degree evaluated. The Graduate School Home 1020 Main Campus Drive Room 2300A Raleigh, NC 27695-7102 919.515.2872 Campus Map Accessibility Apply Ask Us Contact Us Give Now People Privacy Professional Development Programs MyPack Portal News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.