Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Services & Resources : Housing Housing No single housing solution exists for The University of Texas at Austin’s graduate student population, but these resources may help you find a place to call home—whether you want an apartment close to the university with an easy commute or a house in the suburbs with a yard for the kids. Off Campus Housing Resources Find information about housing in Austin. Read More University Apartments The University Apartments are three distinct UT communities in the heart of Austin, where everyone is a Longhorn. The Brackenridge, Colorado and Gateway complexes are within 15 minutes from campus and along UT Shuttle or Cap Metro routes, making the commute easy. Read More Transportation Capital Metro offers bus, shuttle and rail service to the greater Austin metropolitan area. Many students prefer not to bring a car to campus, but instead use Capital Metro or take advantage of the university’s central location by walking or bicycling. Those who wish to drive to campus must purchase a parking permit. We’re located in the heart of Austin, so parking is a challenge. Most lots are on the outskirts of campus, but UT Shuttles can get you from them to your campus destination with ease. Students, faculty and staff with valid UT IDs ride both Capital Metro and UT Shuttles for free. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022