Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Graduate Student Affairs Team Our Community Events and Programs Support Resources Life at Princeton Grad College.jpg The Graduate School recognizes that each of our graduate students brings a diverse perspective and varied background to the scholarly community at Princeton. For that reason, the Graduate Student Affairs Team works to ensure that your Princeton experience is both personally and academically rewarding by developing events, resources and services to support your diverse needs. We hope that you find our Student Life webpages informative and helpful as you gather information, resources, support services and establish a network of support and connections. The Life at Princeton webpages include: Graduate Student Affairs team – overview of the Student Affairs team's focus and areas of responsibility. Our Community – information on residential life, student organizations, Community Associates and student conduct. Events and Programs – listing of the formal workshops/events that the Graduate School sponsors. Support Resources – descriptions of support resources for students, including crisis resources for students in distress, health and wellness information, safety information, and complaint and grievance resolution processes. We hope you will take advantage of our offerings and that you will become actively involved in the Graduate School community. Please feel free to contact us with any questions or concerns you have about any aspect of graduate student life at Princeton. We look forward to getting to know you. Resources Porter's Lodge Graduate Student Affairs Team Our Community Events and Programs Support Resources Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University