Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Explore Student life at KU KU graduate students pursue singular disciplines, but we share a mutual mission of support and respect. In the classroom and beyond, you’ll belong to an enthusiastic and welcoming community of Jayhawks. How we thriveView as gallery page KU is committed to ensuring a healthy student community. We provide a number of campus support resources to help students meet everyday challenges and personal goals. Counseling & Psychological Services Students experiencing psychological, interpersonal, domestic, or other issues can schedule individual or group counseling sessions with CAPS. Watkins Health Services Watkins Health Services provides comprehensive medical care. Walk-ins are welcome, and services include lab work, gynecology, massage therapy, athletic training, and more. Hilltop Child Development Center Hilltop offers high-quality, on-campus childcare services during and between semesters, with priority paid to student families. Rates are on a sliding scale and may be subsidized by scholarships. Recreation Services From personal fitness to team intramural sports, KU Recreation Services offers a range of programs and facilities for students of all levels to break a sweat and improve their health and wellbeing. Previous Next Clubs and organizations KU offers over 100 graduate-focused clubs and organizations. Ranging from interests and hobbies to academics and advocacy, student organizations give Jayhawks a platform to raise their voices and share their enthusiasm with a like-minded community of graduate students. Rock Chalk Central International student life One in six KU graduate students are from outside the U.S. We proudly claim an active community of international Jayhawks, and invite all to celebrate and share their cultures. See more Academic resources Personal support and academic achievement go hand-in-hand. KU’s Academic Success programs provide students with individualized assistance and critical resources, in the classroom and elsewhere. Academic Success Academics at KU Writing Center University Career Center Emergency Aid Network Academic Support Centers Our partners Two of our campus partners help carry forward our mission of support and engagement. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging DEIB is committed to cultivating an inclusive campus environment, and offers a network of services and resources to help students live and thrive at KU. Learn More Student Affairs Through programs, activities, and events, the Office of Student Affairs supports and advocates for all KU students. Learn More Jayhawk Career Network JCN is a one-stop resource for making career connections through mentorship, networking, webinars, and an active job board. Learn More Swipe to see more KU Graduate Students 5,570 graduate students 38% from beyond Kansas — 17% internationally 1 in 5 from racially diverse backgrounds Get started Ready to start the conversation with KU? Begin the application process or sign up for our email list. Apply Apply Request info Request info graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.