Search How to Apply to UCLA Grad School Programs Programs A-Z Programs Sorted by Schools Program Statistics Admissions Steps To Apply Diversity in Admissions International Applicants Calendar Visiting UCLA Apply FAQs Academics Master’s Studies Doctoral Studies Academic Calendar Research Forms FAQs Funding Search for Funding Financial Aid & Finances Tuition Calendar Working at UCLA FAQs Life at UCLA Map Housing & Transportation Healthcare Resources Events Diversity at UCLA Our Students FAQs SmartRecs Recommendations Notifications My Favorites Settings Giving to UCLA’s Graduate Education Why Give to UCLA Grad? Opportunities to Give Recommendations Notifications My Favorites Settings Sign Out Go.Grad Favorites, recommendations, and notifications are only available for UCLA Graduate Students at this time. Sign Out Sign In Why Sign In? Access features exclusively for UCLA students and staff. As a student, you can: Add funding awards to your favorites list Get notified of upcoming deadlines and events Receive personalized recommendations for funding awards Sign In search grad.ucla Search Skip to content Show or hide navigation menu Sign in Recommendations Notifications My Favorites Settings Sign Out Go.Grad Favorites, recommendations, and notifications are only available for UCLA Graduate Students at this time. Sign Out Visiting UCLA We're Sorry You've signed in with a UCLA undergraduate student account. Sign in features are only available for UCLA graduate students at this time. OK, Sign me out For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. UCLA Graduate Programs How to Applyto UCLA Graduate School Steps To Apply Diversity in Admissions International Applicants Calendar Visiting UCLA Apply FAQs Visiting UCLA The University of California, Los Angeles sits just five miles from the Pacific Ocean at the base of the Santa Monica mountains. Are you interested in scheduling a campus visit? Your first step is to contact the programs you’re interested in applying to. Let them know when you’d like to schedule a visit and find out what times are best for the department. If you’d like to meet specific faculty, remember to ask if they’ll be available during that time. Join a more general: Graduate Campus Tour Undergraduate Campus Tour To find out when our Diversity Inclusions & Admissions staff is visiting your campus or city, check out our schedule. Campus & Neighborhood Map Map of UCLA and info about the neighborhood. Campus Map (Interactive) Interactive map of UCLA with building names. BruinBus Schedule and Routes Offers free transportation around campus. Directions to UCLA and Where to Park Freeway and street directions to campus. Parking Visitor parking information. Public Transit Public transit routes serving UCLA. UCLA Guest House Hotel A 61 room hotel located on UCLA campus. UCLA Luskin Conference Center A 254 room hotel located on UCLA campus. Interested in learning more about applying at UCLA Graduate School? UCLA will never share your email address and you may unsubscribe at any time. Sign Up × Loading... About Us Campus Map Terms of Use Contact Us Accessibility UCLA.edu UCLA Grad School Twitter UCLA Grad School Instagram UCLA Grad School YouTube Support Graduate Education 7ads6x98y X