Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Grad Updates will sunset on June 13 The Grad Updates site will sunset on June 13. We encourage you to visit and change your bookmark to the COVID-19 Guidance for Students page from Student Affairs. Stanford Grad Updates Search this site Submit Search Menu Home News About Your well-being and education are our top priorities. Grad Updates aggregates Stanford's current COVID-19-related information for new and continuing graduate and professional degree students. Main content start Latest Updates NOTE: The Grad Updates site will sunset on June 13. We encourage you to visit and change your bookmark to the COVID-19 Guidance for Students page from Student Affairs. COVID surveillance testing is being suspended for fully vaccinated and boosted students. Twice-weekly testing with Color will continue to be required for those who are not fully vaccinated and boosted. Masking in classrooms and on Marguerite shuttles, regardless of vaccination status, will continue to be required. If you or a close contact tests positive for COVID-19, please follow these instructions to get the support and care you need quickly. COVID-19 Safety Information All students living in R&DE-assigned housing or who are coming to campus are required to follow these public health protocols: Current COVID-19 policies and status Daily Health Check now on Stanford mobile app COVID Vaccinations information about COVID vaccines. If you have any questions about the health requirements specific to your circumstances, submit a ServiceNow ticket. COVID-19 Testing information about COVID testing for grad students living on or off campus COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours information on where to pick up and drop off COVID testing kits Testing for Student Partners/Spouse eligibility for non-student partners/spouses living in RD&E housing Stanford's COVID Dashboards updates about surveillance testing, vaccination metrics, Health Check submissions, isolation, and prevalence in the Stanford community COVID-19 Hygiene Best Practices training required online training for all students coming to campus Face Covering information on face covering policy Campus Life Campus activities are informed by university, county, state, and federal public health guidelines. Current Guidelines on Gatherings restrictions differ for academic and non-academic gatherings and are subject to change Health Attestation Required for Visitors guests from outside the Stanford community are permitted to visit student residences. Guests must comply with the Residence Agreement and follow the university’s COVID-19 visitor policy, including completion of the Stanford Visitor: Daily COVID-19 Health Attestation, which requires 1) being fully vaccinated against COVID-19, or 2) taking a COVID-19 test no sooner than 72 hours prior to the visit and receiving a negative test result. Stanford Transportation updates on transportation services, including Marguerite and DisGo shuttles, Zipcar car sharing, parking, and Enterprise car rentals Residential & Dining Enterprises COVID-19 updates regarding on and off campus subsidized housing Vaden Health Center for more information about care and testing CardinalRecovery current policies and protocols in for research Visa & Travel Information Immigration and travel policies continue to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic Bechtel International Center support and resources for students studying at Stanford on visas Immigration Issues and Resources general updates for Stanford’s international community Travel Policy updates to COVID-19 related travel policies and guidelines Travel & Return Testing Guide to support a healthy return to campus post-travel Emergency Information & Contacts Campus emergency information Learn more CardinalReady outlines procedures for various emergencies Graduate Life Office 24/7 Support: call 650-723-7288, provide page ID#25085 and indicate you need to read the GLO on-call dean; or email 25085@pageme.stanford.edu and provide your name and reason for paging Counseling and Psychological Services 24/7 mental health crisis support: 650-723-3785; call 911 (or 9-911 from an on-campus phone) for life threatening emergencies Questions? Please let us know what questions and suggestions you have. Contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education (VPGE) Contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs (VPSA) Stanford Grad Updates Web Login Vice Provost for Graduate Education Graduate Life Office Vice Provost for Student Affairs Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top