Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School Financial Assistance FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research and Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Stipends vary according to the amount of work required and the experience of the student. Full-time awards include a minimum stipend of approximately $13,000 for the nine-month academic year, with several awards having higher stipend amounts. Tuition scholarship awards covering up to nine credit hours of tuition per semester are also available. Students awarded financial assistance must be enrolled in at least nine hours of graduate work during the fall and spring semesters. Students must also maintain a 3.0 grade-point average in graduate studies to remain on an assistantship, fellowship, or scholarship. The University of Tulsa considers that a full-time graduate student receiving a graduate assistantship has a full-time commitment. Any employment in addition to the assistantship without the written permission of the Graduate School is specifically prohibited. Any violation of this policy will result in the immediate termination of the assistantship. Applicants interested in a teaching or research assistantship should submit their application for admission no later than February 1st for admission the next fall semester. Some specialized assistantship, fellowship, and scholarship programs have a deadline of January 15th and require the submission of a separate application. Please consult the specific award program for the correct application deadline. Need-Based Financial Aid Need-based financial assistance for all students is handled by the Office of Student Financial Services. For more information about these funding opportunities, see their website. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT