Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : How to Apply Admission for Non-Degree Seeking Students Admission for Non-Degree Seeking Students Not all graduate programs offer the option for students to enroll as a non-degree seeker. Before applying, check with the graduate program of interest to see if they offer the non-degree option. The application process for a non-degree seeker is the same as degree seeking students. Enrollment is limited to one year, and a bachelor’s degree is required. Check with the graduate program to determine if the GRE/GMAT is required, as it may be waived for non-degree seeking applicants. The TOEFL/IELTS is required of all international applicants unless they meet the waiver requirements. All programs have additional requirements such as letters of recommendation or a statement of purpose that you may need complete before they will consider your application. Check with the program you are applying to for instructions on submitting additional supporting documents. Please note that if the program does not require these documents, they may still be requested by the Graduate School before your application can be considered for admission. If you later decide to seek a graduate degree, you must apply as a degree-seeking student by the program deadline. A degree-seeking student may petition to have applied to the master’s degree up to six semester hours of credit in graduate-level courses earned while enrolled as a non-degree seeking student. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022