Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Graduate Student Life Columbia Engineering offers students a rigorous and dynamic graduate engineering program at one of the world’s most renowned universities. Graduate students at the school participate in rigorous academic programs and experiential activities that contribute to a holistic and inclusive educational experience. Graduate Student Life at SEAS From their first day on campus to the Class Day and Graduation celebrations, Graduate students participate in breakthrough research, social events encouraging interpersonal relationships with peers and alumni, educational opportunities to learn from esteemed faculty, and professional development initiatives to prepare students for careers after graduation. In addition, Columbia Engineering Graduate students can become involved through the Engineering Graduate Student Council, student organizations, and departmental programming. In terms of academic programs, Columbia Engineering offers several Graduate level degrees including the Master of Science program; two doctoral degrees in engineering; the Doctor of Engineering in Science (EngScD) and the PhD. Housing The New York City housing market can be overwhelming, but Columbia is dedicated to helping its students find safe, affordable housing. Incoming Columbia Engineering Graduate students can leverage the following resources to secure housing, both On and Off-campus. Please keep in mind that Columbia Housing is highly competitive with the majority of our masters students living off-campus. MORE New Student Checklist For new students transitioning to Columbia Engineering, the Office of Graduate Student Affairs has organized a comprehensive orientation program and a checklist to support you. Information on academic and campus resources is also available. MORE Engineering Community Standards Policies and procedures regarding graduate code of conduct, academic integrity, and ethical behavior at Columbia University - Fu Foundation School of Engineering & Applied Science. MORE GSA Student Organizations Leadership is highly encouraged at Columbia Engineering and many students find the opportunity to lead participating in the numerous student groups found at the school. MORE Columbia University and Engineering School Resources Columbia University supports students by offering an extensive set of resources throughout the entire student cycle. As a Graduate Student at Columbia Engineering, students may browse the list below to find support for a specific issue. MORE Graduation Engineering Class Day is a celebration of the accomplishments of all bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degree candidates of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Graduating students will be individually recognized, and addresses are given by the president, dean, a keynote speaker, and other individuals. Date: May 16, 2022 Location: South Lawns of Campus University Commencement will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, at 10:30 a.m. (EDT). MORE Fellowships and Opportunities Students can find external fellowships and various research opportunities throughout the country. MORE Office of Graduate Student Affairs Graduate Student Affairs (GSA) provides programming and services to Graduate Engineering students that support and enhance the student experience and success. GSA offers holistic guidance from orientation to graduation, including academic advising, class registration, and events that promote student life and wellness. Our office seeks to be your go-to resource for navigating Columbia University and assisting with any questions or challenges that arise during your time here. We look forward to meeting you! MORE Graduate Students Welcome, Columbia Engineering Graduate Students! From their first day on campus to Graduation celebrations, graduate students participate in breakthrough research, social events that encourage interpersonal relationships with peers and alumni, educational opportunities to learn from esteemed faculty, and professional development initiatives to prepare students for careers after graduation. MORE Spring 2022 Updates To learn more about the fall semester, please visit the Spring Updates for Students page. The Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC) EGSC is the student governing body of the graduate students at Columbia Engineering. Participation in EGSC through its various committees, student organizations, and executive board positions is highly encouraged. Visit the EGSC website Student Organizations Leadership is highly encouraged at Columbia Engineering and many students find the opportunity to lead participating in the numerous student groups found at the school. Clubs and Organizations Graduate Student Handbook This student handbook contains most of the policies guiding your tenure as a student at Columbia. Students are responsible for knowing the contents and following all policies contained within. Student Handbook COVID-19 Student Resources Students should be aware of COVID-19 resources and should utilize these resources accordingly. The university's COVID-19 resources may be subject to updates depending on guidelines set forth by the university, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and NY State. COVID-19 RESOURCES Return to Campus To learn more about returning to campus, please visit the Return to Campus page. GSA Newsletter To stay up-to-date on all that's happening in grad. student life at SEAS, please remember to read our newsletter sent by [email protected]. Columbia Engineering Graduate Virtual Hub For online students, please stay connected with the GSA through our Virtual Hub. Virtual Hub Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University