Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Alumni Faculty Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Back to Top Nav Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Back to Top Nav Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Back to Top Nav Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Back to Top Nav Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Back to Top Nav Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community News & Events Share Board of Advisors Current Advisory Board Members Kristen M. Garner Amanti, Ph.D. Guarini'10 MED'10 Allison S. Bailey '87 Douglas L. Borden '88, Guarini '88 Mark R. Briggs '93, Guarini'93 (Chair) Ting Cai, Guarini '96 Laura A. Carlson '87 (Vice-chair) Arijit Chakravarty, Guarini '03 Ronald R. Chance, Guarini'74 Kathleen Ann Coleman, Guarini '00 Shinichiro Fuse, Guarini '08 Patrick Edward "Pat" Lindner, Guarini '97 David A. Silbersweig, M.D. '82 Julie Skinner-Manegold, Guarini '15 Henry N. Tisdale, Guarini '75, Guarini '78 Ben Vinson III '92 Former Advisory Board Member: Mark W. Durand, Guarini '84 *deceased Kristen M. Garner Amanti, Ph.D. GR'10 MED'10 kristen-amanti.jpg Kristen is a vice president of Health Advances, a strategy consulting firm that serves clients across the life sciences industry. She is a leader of the precision medicine practice and her work largely focuses on the development of commercialization strategies, business development opportunity assessment, deal diligence, international and domestic market assessment, and corporate strategy. Kristen has expertise in precision medicine, companion diagnostics, oncology, women's health, reproductive health, and rare disease. She is a member of the Town of Carlisle (MA) Lyme Disease Committee and volunteer for the Concord-Carlisle Youth Soccer program. At Dartmouth, she is an academic advisory member for the Dartmouth Biotech Club. Kristen holds a B.S. and M.S. in Biology from University of Vermont and a Ph.D. in Pharmacology from Dartmouth College. Allison S. Bailey '87 baileyallison87_nom_041957.jpg Allison is a managing director and senior partner at Boston Consulting Group and a global leader of the firm's People and Organization practice. The Boston Consulting Group strives to empower organizations to grow, build sustainable competitive advantage, and drive positive societal impact. She has worked extensively with clients in the media, technology, consumer goods, health care, education, and financial services fields on issues related to strategy, growth, organization, large-scale transformation, operational improvement, turnaround, mergers and acquisitions, and post-merger integration. Allison advises company leaders on setting overall strategic direction, managing through transition, building effective leadership teams, and driving value. Allison is a former Dartmouth Admissions alumni interviewer (1988–2002). Douglas L. "Doug" Borden '88, MS Physics '88 boa-doug-borden.jpg Doug is a managing director with Two Sigma Investments, a New York City-based hedge fund that uses a variety of technological methods, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, and distributed computing, for its trading strategies. Previously, he was a managing director for KCG Holdings, global financial services firm engaging in market making, high-frequency trading, electronic execution, and institutional sales and trading. At Dartmouth, Doug was awarded the Haseltine Chemistry-Physics Prize (1987), which is offered to that student who, in the opinion of a committee consisting of the president, the dean of the college, and the ranking professors in each of the subjects mentioned, shall show the most promise in chemistry or in physics. Chair Mark R. Briggs '93, MS Physics '93 boa-mark-briggs.jpg Mark Briggs serves as chairman and CEO of Validity. He has over 25 years of experience building and leading high-growth technology companies with a strong track record of generating exceptional shareholder value. Most recently, he served as CEO of ABILITY Network, which was acquired by Inovalon (NASDAQ:INOV) for $1.2 billion. Additionally, Mark is a senior advisor for Silversmith Capital Partners, a leading Boston private equity firm. Prior to ABILITY, Mark held executive leadership positions at Carefx Corporation, at NaviNet, was the president of MPI Solutions at QuadraMed Corporation, and founded LinkSoft Technologies where he served as the chairman and CEO. Mark holds a Master's in Theoretical Physics and a Bachelor's in Physics, both from Dartmouth College. Ting Cai, MS Computer Science '96 boa-ting-cai.jpg Ting has been employed with Microsoft for over 15 years. Currently, he is the partner director of product and technology and director of Bing News, Microsoft's news aggregator powered by artificial intelligence that is part of the Bing search engine. Ting is responsible for working on speech and search products and technology including news, multimedia, relevance, platform, user experience, and mobile app, as well as the global Bing news product, engineering, and publisher engagement teams. He is a frequent speaker at Big Data and AI for Media conferences around the world and served as a juror for the AI and the News Open Challenge (2019). Vice-chair Laura A. Carlson '87 boa-laura-carson.jpg Laura is a professor at Notre Dame University and serves as vice president, associate provost, and dean of its Graduate School. Her research focuses on how we represent environments, examining how they are learned, which landmarks are remembered, how routes through these environments are described, and why we might get lost in these environments. Laura is the author or co-author of over 70 articles and chapters, co-editor of a book, and has been funded by the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health. She has served as an associate editor for three journals: Cognitive Psychology, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, and Memory and Cognition. Laura is currently chair of the governing board of the Psychonomic Society and served previously on the Governing Board for the Cognitive Science Society. At Notre Dame, she received the Edmund P. Joyce Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching (2008), and Kaneb Center Teaching Award (2005, 2001). Arijit Chakravarty, PhD Biochemistry '03 boa-arjit-chakravarty.jpg Arijit is the chief executive officer for Fractal Therapeutics, a model-based drug discovery and development company, focused on building a pipeline of novel assets in oncology, infectious disease, and rare diseases. Prior to that, he worked for Takeda Pharmaceuticals in roles of increasing responsibility spanning a diverse range of functions within the research and development organization. Over his career as a scientist, Arijit contributed to over 50 drug development programs, presented at over 100 conferences and seminars, and co-authored 31 peer-reviewed papers and book chapters. Arijit served as adjunct faculty in the Department of Computational Biology at Carnegie Mellon University (2008–2017). He serves as the chair of Board of Directors for Perceptx (2018– ). Ronald R. "Ron" Chance, PhD Chemistry '74 boa_ron-chance.jpg Dr. Ronald Chance began his career with Allied Corporation in 1974, where he served in a number of research positions including Research Manager for Electronic Materials. In 1986, he joined Exxon Corporate Research as the Director of their Polymer and Fluids Laboratory, later serving as Division Manager for the Paramins Technology division of Exxon Chemical, and as Distinguished Scientific Advisor in ExxonMobil's Corporate Strategic Research Laboratories. Dr. Chance retired from ExxonMobil in 2006 and joined the Georgia Institute of Technology as Professor of the Practice with a joint appointment in the School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and the School of Chemistry and Biochemistry. He also served as Distinguished Scientific Advisor Emeritus at ExxonMobil from 2006-2009. Dr. Chance is currently Senior Scientific Advisor for Algenol Biotech, having served as Executive Vice President of Engineering for 2009-2018. His current research interests center around algae-based biorefineries and CO2 management. He has organized a number of international scientific meetings, served on numerous industrial and academic advisory boards, and is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. He has published more than 200 papers and patents, with over 20,000 citations. In 2018, Ron was the recipient of the Evans award from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers for lifetime achievement in chemical engineering practice. Ron received a BS in chemistry from Delta State University and a Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry from Dartmouth College. Kathleen Ann "Kathy" Coleman, MALS '00 boa-kathy-coleman.jpg Kathy graduated from Hiram College majoring in Sociology with a minor in Communications and received a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) from Dartmouth in Public Relations/Communication. She has served on numerous Boards, including Hiram College; University of Akron Foundation – Vice-Chair; Cleveland International Piano Competition; The Musical Theater; MALS Council – Dartmouth; University Hospitals – Development Committee; University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center – Co-chair of the Seidman Cancer Leadership Council; and Vice-chair of all Councils at UH. She has also chaired numerous events for Cleveland International Piano Competition, Friends of the Cleveland Orchestra, American Red Cross Ball, Cleveland Ballet, The Music Settlement and University Hospitals of Cleveland. She has received the Hiram College Garfield Society Award for Philanthropy, the Philanthropist Leadership Award from the Association of Fundraising Professionals, Greater Cleveland Chapter, an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Akron, and the Samuel L. Mather Visionary Award from University Hospitals of Cleveland. Shinichiro "Shin" Fuse, PhD Microbiology & Immunology '08 boa-shin-fuse.jpg Shinichiro (Shin) is a partner at MPM Capital and is focused on advancing MPM's investment identification, due diligence and business development activities. Shin is an investment committee member of the UBS Oncology Impact Fund (OIF), an oncology-only crossover fund (both private and public equities) managed by MPM, and supports MPM's relationship with Astellas. Shin serves on the boards of Triplet Therapeutics, Orna Therapeutics and iOmx Therapeutics, and is a board observer for CODA Biotherapeutics and was previously a board observer for Repare Therapeutics (NASDAQ: RPTX). He previously served operational roles at portfolio companies as the interim CEO of Orna Therapeutics and interim SVP of Business Development at ElevateBio, where he led several deals including Allovir (NASDAQ: ALVR) and HighPass Bio. Prior to joining MPM, he was Director of Business Development at bluebird bio, where he was instrumental in executing and managing key industry and academic partnerships in the fields of cell and gene therapy, cancer immunotherapy and genome editing, including partnerships with Five Prime Therapeutics, National Cancer Institute and the acquisition of Pregenen. Previously, he was at Campbell Alliance (Syneos Health) as a life science strategy consultant, and at PureTech Ventures, where he was a member of the founding team of Vedanta Biosciences. He also serves as a columnist for Nikkei Biotech, the leading biotech journal in Japan. Shin received his Ph.D. in Microbiology and Immunology from Dartmouth College, an M.S. in Biomedical Science from the University of Tokyo, and a B.Eng. in Applied Chemistry from Keio University in Japan. Patrick Edward "Pat" Lindner, PhD Chemistry '97 boa-pat-lindner.jpg In March 2019, Patrick began serving as the president of consumer packing at WestRock Company, a provider of differentiated paper and packaging solutions. He previously served as chief operating officer for W.L. Gore & Associates, a materials science company with products ranging from medical devices that treat aneurysms to high-performance GORE-TEX® Fabrics. Patrick serves on the Board of Advisors for Survivors of Abuse in Recovery (2015– ). At Dartmouth, he was the recipient of the Hannah Croasdale Award (1997) for academic excellence which is awarded annually to the graduating Ph.D. student who best exemplifies the qualities of a scholar, and the John H. Wolfenden Teaching Prize (1996), awarded to those chemistry graduate students who have completed their teaching requirements with unusual distinction and excellence. David A. Silbersweig, M.D. '82 silbersweig.jpg David, a neurologist and psychiatrist, is one of the pioneers of functional neuroimaging research in psychiatry. The aim of his work in systems-level neuropathophysiology is to help provide a foundation for the development of novel, targeted, and biologically based diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to aid those suffering with mental illness. David is the chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the Brigham and Women's Hospital and co-director of the Brigham's Institute for the Neurosciences. He also is Stanley Cobb Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. He was an Academic Dean at Harvard Medical School for seven years. David has played a notable role in shaping the rapidly developing field of neuropsychiatry through his clinical and scientific work, innovative educational activities, invited presentations in the United States and abroad, and his work with scientific journals and organizations. He is a Fellow of the American Neuropsychiatric Association, Consulting Editor of the Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences, and editor of a major textbook of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Neurology. He has significant involvement and leadership roles in national and international research consortia. David was the founding vice chairman of the governing board of the National Network of Depression Centers and a board member for the Brain Science Foundation. He is on the board of the Spaulding Rehabilitation Network. His Dartmouth service includes Admissions alumni interviewer (2015–2021); Alumni Council (AC) Nomination and Alumni Trustee Search Committee, member (2017–2020); AC Executive Committee, member (2017–2018); Alumni Council, member (2015–2018); AC Academic Affairs Committee, chair (2017–2018) member (2015–2016), vice chair (2016–2017); and Alumni Advisory Jewish Life, member (1984–1989). David will be a Montgomery Fellow at Dartmouth in the Fall of 2022. Julie Skinner Manegold, PhD Physics & Astronomy '15 boa-julie-skinner.jpg Julie is an astronomer specializing in the observation and characterization of the smallest stars and their stellar and planetary companions. Most recently, she was visiting faculty at Smith College. Prior to that, she was a postdoctoral scholar at Boston University's Institute for Astrophysical Research, where she founded the Women as Leaders in Astronomy program and was the Assistant Director for the NSF-funded astronomy REU program in addition to her scholarly pursuits. While at Dartmouth, Julie was given the Physics & Astronomy Chair's teaching award, was an NSF GK-12 Fellow, and was the Graduate Fellow for Professional Development Programs. In this capacity, she developed a plan for school-wide TA training and facilitated workshops for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars on best practices in teaching and learning through the Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning. Julie holds a bachelor's degree in astrophysics from the University of Oklahoma and a Ph.D. in Physics & Astronomy from Dartmouth College. Henry N. Tisdale, MS Mathematics '75, PhD Mathematics '78 boa-dr._tisdale.jpg Dr. Tisdale became the eighth president of Claflin University in 1994 and recently retired from that position on July 31, 2019. During his 25-year tenure, he was committed to the vision of making Claflin a premier liberal arts institution. Highlights of Henry's implementations include: established the Freshman College to ease the transition into college life; established the Professional and Continuing Studies Center, Academic Plan for Excellence, Leadership Development Center, and Center for Excellence in Science and Mathematics; restoration of Tingley Memorial Hall; Student Residential Center comprised of four residential facilities and new dining center; launched master's programs in business administration, biotechnology, education; and the designation of the Molecular Research Center as a core research facility by the South Carolina Research Authority. Remarkably, Claflin successfully achieved the largest capital campaign in school history. The University now offer degrees under four schools as well as various online degrees. Claflin also offers a bachelor's degree in nursing. Over the years, Dr. Tisdale has served on many committees, councils, boards, and task forces at both the state and national levels including: United Negro College Fund (UNCF), Board of Directors; American Council on Education Commission on Effective Leadership; UNCF Special Programs, Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges Council of Presidents; Historically Black Colleges and Universities-Educational Testing Service Steering Committee; General Board of Higher Education and Ministry of The United Methodist Church, Board of Directors; University Senate of The United Methodist Church; Orangeburg County Economic Development Partners; and Orangeburg County Development Commission, Board of Directors. Dr. Tisdale also has been honored with the Order of the Palmetto, the highest civilian award given by the Governor of South Carolina. Ben Vinson III '92 boa-ben-vinson.jpg Dr. Vinson is the provost and executive vice president at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, OH and is responsible for all facets of the academic programs and research of the University. He is an accomplished historian of Latin America and served on the faculties of Barnard College and Penn State before joining Johns Hopkins as a professor of history and founding director of its Center for Africana Studies. Ben went on to serve as a vice dean for centers, interdisciplinary studies, and graduate education before becoming dean of George Washington University's Columbian College of Arts and Sciences. Under his leadership, Columbian College increased interdisciplinary initiatives, enhanced diversity, and substantially grew research efforts. Ben led the integration of the Corcoran School of the Arts and Design into Columbian College, collaborated with the dean of engineering to open an interdisciplinary science and engineering building, and initiated graduate degree programs in data science and applied economics. He serves on The National Humanities Center Board of Trustees (2013– ), chair (2018—) and is a member of the American Historical Association. Ben has been awarded fellowships from the Fulbright Commission, National Humanities Center, Social Science Research Council, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Ford Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, and Mellon Foundation. At Dartmouth, he served as an Admissions alumni interviewer (2016–2017). Main menu Dartmouth College Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Alumni Graduate Alumni Research Award Stay Connected Tell Us Your Story Faculty Required Syllabi Language Mentoring Resources Ribbon Footer View policies relating to graduate courses. Courses View all the GRAD policies in one place. Policies View the Academic Honor Code and other related regulations. Academic Conduct Regulations Close Contact Guarini Admissions. Find out more about applying to the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. APPLY Find out more about tuition and living costs. Tuition & Living Costs Find out more about funding available through fellowships, grants, and awards. Funding Close People Admissions Guarini.Graduate.Admissions@Dartmouth.edu General Guarini.Graduate.School@dartmouth.edu Current Students & Postdocs Please Complete Our Contact Form Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies 64 College Street Anonymous Hall Suite 102 Hanover New Hampshire 03755-3563Come Find Us! Phone: 603-646-2106 Fax: 603-646-8762 HB: HB 6062 Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Close Policies Apply Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback