Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : Where to Begin Where to Begin To be considered for graduate admission to The University of Texas at Austin, you must meet both the minimum requirements set by the Graduate School and the requirements of the individual graduate program to which you are applying. Often, the program's requirements are more rigorous than those set by the Graduate School. Each program sets its own deadlines and requires the submission of additional materials. These materials vary by program, but may include letters of reference, auditions, work samples and personal statements. Information about required materials is available from the admission coordinator of each program. Request More Information Tell us about yourself and we will connect you with your program of interest. Submit your request Programs & Degrees Visit the website of the graduate program that interests you to learn more about it, from requirements and deadlines to coursework and career outcomes. Read More Cost of Attendance See what your program of interest will cost and compare it to the cost of other programs. Read More Admissions & Enrollment Statistics Find out the average GPA, GRE/GMAT scores and selectivity/yield for various graduate programs. Read More Eligibility for Admission Consideration Review requirements you’ll need to meet in order to be eligible for admission consideration. Read More Quick Links Programs & Contacts Graduate Admission Milestones Recruitment Brochure Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022