Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Estimate Cost & Aid Breadcrumb Home Financial Support for Master’s Students Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance Financing Worksheets Estimators & Calculators Estimate Cost & Aid Understand the cost of attendance for master’s programs at Brown, estimate educational expenses and plan for payment using Brown’s Installment Payment Plan. Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance is a combination of direct charges and estimated indirect expenses. Financing Worksheets for Graduate Students Use these worksheets to map out your program’s cost and eligible financing options. Estimators & Calculators These tools help students estimate and calculate costs, billing and loan repayment. Brown's Installment Payment Plan (IPP) Managed by the Bursar's Office, Brown's IPP enables students to make interest-free monthly installments to cover each semester’s tuition, housing, meals and required fees. The IPP is available for the fall and spring semesters only. Enrollment in the plan for fall semester begins late June; enrollment in the plan for spring semester begins mid-November. Each semester of enrollment requires a $75 non-refundable enrollment fee. The IPP can be updated once your financial aid award is complete. Typically, awards for the upcoming year are completed mid to late June. Details and application instructions are available on the Bursar's Office website or by calling (401) 863-2484. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Estimate Cost & Aid Open details for Estimate Cost & Aid Bookmark this Page