Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Academic Progress Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Additional information for the Graduate School community can be found on the COVID-19 Graduate School Updates page. Mentoring Remotely During Disruption COVID-19 has created an environment where faculty need to mentor students remotely, under disruptive circumstances. Below are some suggestions on how to approach this: Acknowledge the uncertain times and psychological distress students (and their faculty advisors and mentors) are experiencing. Reassure students that you will be as available, supportive, understanding, and flexible as possible. Consider what this means for you personally. Depending on individual circumstances, some faculty will be in the position to provide more support than others. Allow yourself to be available, within boundaries, to meet your and their needs. Provide reassurance and, when possible, pertinent information you receive. Do this regularly. Be responsive to students’ concerns about health, feelings of isolation, housing, family and loved ones both local and afar, travel, food access and insecurity, etc. The list of concerns can be long for many of our students, and many offices across campus are working to help students address and manage these concerns. (The Graduate School has modified hours of operation so staff are answering emails and accommodating virtual appointments from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) Review the goals and expectations you established with your students under normal conditions (e.g. face-to-face interactions, regular check-ins, group meetings, etc.). Identify which of these goals and expectations are important to maintain and which may need to be reprioritized and redefined. Consider how new constraints (available time, remote work, new stressors) may factor into how mutually understood expectations can be met, how individual and shared goals can be achieved, and within what time frame. Many students whose work depends heavily on being in the field, lab, or other external environments are concerned about how this time working remotely will impact their continued progress. Students closer to degree completion are also concerned about a rapidly changing job market both within and beyond academia. Do what you can to ease their concerns, but also work with them on realistic action plans including pointing them toward resources and support offered by the Graduate School such as Future Faculty and Academic Careers and Careers Beyond Academia. Communicate clear expectations for your students (as clear as you can under rapidly changing circumstances). How do you plan to communicate with students, individually and in groups? (Email? Zoom? Slack? Phone? Facetime? Skype?) How often can students expect to hear from you? Schedule regular check-in times for one-on-one meetings. How often do you want to hear from your students for check-ins and progress updates? Maintain regular, virtual lab meetings, as well as social times such as virtual coffee hours and virtual lunches. What do you want students to do regarding research and writing? Any modifications? What degree of flexibility? On what schedule do you expect progress to be made? Again, with what modifications and flexibility? Consider asking for written progress reports. Keep track of progress with structure, e.g. pre-meeting summary of key tasks; pre-meeting report on accomplishments, obstacles, questions for discussion. Continue to communicate as students ask questions. Regular communication is reassuring. You don’t need to know all the answers, but be prepared to help connect them with various resources as specific needs and concerns become apparent. Consider having members of a lab or cohort form sub-groups with two to three people to check in on each other every other day. Checking in should be about research, but also about how they doing personally. It’s OK to tell students that you and other faculty are also trying to figure out how to continue your teaching, research, writing, and publishing under these challenging circumstances. Possible language: “We’ll figure this out together. Send me questions whenever you have them, especially if I have missed something important. If I don’t know the answer, the Graduate School, the college, and others will help us figure out missed and next steps.” Help students stay connected with peer writing groups, professional networks, journal clubs, seminar series, etc. Support students’ well-being: Remind them to get outside, where possible, include exercise in their schedules, etc. Encourage students who feel overwhelmed to step away from social media and the news. Bear in mind that everyone’s home environments look different – students and postdocs may have different levels of access to technology and internet connections, and caregivers may be juggling those responsibilities in real-time with their professional work. These are unprecedented times that are impacting everyone one in significant ways. Provide yourself and your students with some grace. Demonstrating empathy and humanity will go a long way in providing students with reassurance that they are not in this alone! The university, colleges and schools, and the Graduate School are all posting regular updates. You can access the most up to date information on Cornell’s Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Resources and Updates page. Updates, resources, and FAQs more specific to graduate students may be accessed directly on the Graduate School’s COVID-19 Updates page. Encourage and expect your students to check these sites regularly (so you don’t have to send more emails than necessary), as faculty have limited bandwidth too! Compiled by the Graduate School Offices of Academic & Student Affairs and Inclusion and Student Engagement, the Office of Faculty Development and Diversity, and Future Faculty and Academic Careers. Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022