Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Breadcrumb Home Types of Aid Sub Navigation In This Section Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Brown continues its commitment to veterans by collaborating with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on the Post 9/11 GI Bill and the Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program. Brown continues its commitment to veterans by collaborating with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on the Post 9/11 GI Bill and the Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program. Post 911 GI Bill® Benefits Effective August 1, 2021, benefits include: Up to $26,042 annually towards the cost of a private institution's tuition and fees A monthly housing allowance equal to the basic allowance for housing payable to an E-5 with dependents, in the same zip code as the school Yearly books and supplies stipend of up to $1,000 per year To determine if you are eligible for this program, visit Brown's Office of Military-Affiliated Students or contact the VA. Yellow Ribbon Program Students who are receiving Post 9/11 GI Bill Benefits may also be eligible for the Yellow Ribbon Program. Brown will continue to support a limited number of eligible graduate Yellow Ribbon recipients for the academic year 2020-21. (This support applies to eligible veterans or dependents of eligible veterans.) In 2021-2022, there will be support for 10 students in the Graduate School, 3 graduate students in the division of Bio-Med, 2 medical students, and 16 School of Professional Studies students on a first-come, first-served basis. This is determined by the date a veteran or an eligible dependent’s Certificate of Eligibility (for veterans) or the Transfer of Entitlement (for dependents of veterans) is received by the individual divisions. Graduate students are required to submit their documentation to the Graduate School. Medical students are required to submit their documentation to the Alpert Medical School. SPS students are required to submit their documentation to the School of Professional Studies. Maximum funding would vary if a student is enrolled less than full-time. Brown’s contribution for each eligible executive masters Yellow Ribbon recipient will be up to $7,500 annually. The amount may vary depending upon timing of the start and end dates of the program in relation to the VA fiscal year. The Process Students must be an admitted or currently enrolled student in a degree program. Students must apply for benefits under the Post 9/11 GI Bill with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. Students must forward a Certificate of Eligibility or the Transfer of Entitlement from the VA to the required department mentioned above. Additional Information More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. For questions related to eligibility and veteran support, visit the Student Veterans and Commissioning Programs website. For questions related to VA funding for Master’s or PhD programs, contact the Graduate School at 401-863-2600 or graduate_school@brown.edu. For questions related to VA funding for School of Professional Studies (SPS) Master’s programs, you can contact them at 401-863-2700 or professional@brown.edu. For questions related to VA funding for medical school students, contact the Medical School Office of Financial Aid at 401-863-5113 or md_finaid@brown.edu. For assistance in obtaining a certification of enrollment at Brown, contact the Registrar’s Office at 401-863-2500 or registrar@brown.edu. GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Open details for Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Bookmark this Page