Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Fields of Study Departments and Programs Princeton University has 42 degree-granting departments and programs that admit students. Associated admission and degree requirements for each can be found within the Fields of Study listings. The University also offers a growing number of interdepartmental programs and offerings that allow students to work across disciplinary boundaries while still continuing to receive advanced training and a degree in the home department. Recognized interdepartmental programs are also listed in Fields of Study. Joint Degrees Princeton's Graduate School itself authorizes and offers four full joint-degree programs: interdisciplinary humanities, social policy, neuroscience, and materials science. Established joint degree programs allow participating students to earn a Ph.D. within a recognized discipline, but with a substantial research component of a related discipline. Students apply to a participating home department, and are usually accepted to a joint degree program after admission and enrollment. Students who successfully pursue a joint degree will receive a Ph.D. from their home department and from the affiliated program. Joint degree programs have their own listing within Fields of Study. Princeton also participates in two established joint-degree programs with other institutions. Information about these can be found in the Fields of Study listings for the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs (for the M.P.A.-J.D. program), and the Department of Molecular Biology (for the M.D-Ph.D. program). Individual agreements or arrangements outside of these formal programs may also be possible with the support of a student's department and the Graduate School. Graduate Certificates Graduate certificate programs allow graduate students to develop a secondary area of expertise and require work that is in addition to a student's normal degree requirements. Such additional work may include language study and acquisition, course work, participation in special workshops or colloquia, or research activity (for Ph.D. students, this additional research activity often involves significant additional content or methods for the general examination and/or the doctoral dissertation). Students are not admitted to the University via certificate programs; only graduate students already admitted to degree programs at Princeton may be eligible to pursue certificates. Certificate programs are listed within Fields of Study, either as their own entry or, in cases where the certificate program is sponsored directly by a degree-granting department, within the sponsoring department's entry. Entries for certificate programs that have been approved by the Graduate School and the University to appear on a student's transcript indicate as much. Such certificates are recorded on the transcript at the same time the degree is awarded. Students may pursue and earn one recorded certificate for each graduate degree awarded. In no case should degree progress be slowed or altered because of work on a certificate. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University