Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Alumni Faculty Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Back to Top Nav Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Back to Top Nav Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Back to Top Nav Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Back to Top Nav Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Back to Top Nav Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Programs Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Share Orientation 2021 ESL Orientation dates will be August 24-28. Orientation 2022: September 7, 8, and 9 Programming will be determined closer to the dates with regards to in-person or virtual as we assess the situation around COVID-19. Orientation Schedule Orientation will be mostly virtual on CANVAS which will go live on August 23, 2021 (Students will receive an email with an invite to join the CANVAS site). Lab Safety -- Mandatory Sessions Wednesday, September 8 Location TBD North Park/First Year Mixer Wednesday, September 8 from 6-8pm Ramunto's Pizzeria, 9 South St, Hanover, NH 03755 Orientation BBQ Thursday, September 9 @5pm Life Sciences Center Lawn Join the Guarini community for food and non-alcoholic beverages on the lawn. GSC Activities Fair Friday, September 10 @3pm New Location: Anonymous Hall Lawn Come along to learn about the many different activities and groups supported by the Graduate community! Lab Safety will be mandatory for those on campus and will be held in person on Wednesday, 8th with times and location to be announced. Ethics Training Panel Discussion: On Friday, September 10 at 9:00 am, we will present an interactive online panel via Zoom on professional ethics. Our purpose is to engage you in a discussion about some of the complex ethical issues that face professionals conducting research today, whether your area of study is in the sciences, the social sciences, or the humanities. Participating in the live session or watching the recorded session is Mandatory. Zoom link: https://dartmouth.zoom.us/j/96789307358?pwd=MW94YmFMdkFIZC93ZkgrYnZtMzU2Zz09 Prior to that date, we are asking you to spend 55 minutes watching a NOVA special, the "Secret of Photo 51," that touches on these issues. The link to the NOVA special can be found on your canvas site. Ethics Survey To complete the Graduate Ethics Survey: o Canvas will send a message to your Dartmouth email account, inviting you to join the Online Guarini Orientation course. o Accept the invitation by clicking on the link in the email. o Go to Module 3, "Building a Respectful Community" -> Academic Honesty. After having read and viewed all content, click on Take the Grad Ethics Survey. You must answer "yes" to all four questions. Vaccinations and Coming to Campus As we begin the phased re-opening of the Dartmouth campus, one of the steps that will allow us to do so safely is adding the requirement of a COVID-19 vaccine. For all undergraduate, graduate, and professional students planning to enroll for the 2021-2022 academic year, the deadline to submit evidence of at least a first dose, or to complete a medical/religious waiver, will be June 30, 2021. Documentation showing that you are fully vaccinated (all doses plus 14 days) will be required two weeks before you arrive on campus in July, August, or September for the fall term. If you have already submitted documentation to the Dartmouth College Health Service, there is no need to resubmit your documents. For information on the types of vaccines Dartmouth will accept as well as the process for submitting a waiver, please visit, https://students.dartmouth.edu/health-service/about/covid-19-campus-information/covid-details-vaccination-and-quarantine-updates/vax-faqs . We will accept COVID vaccines that have received emergency use authorization by either the CDC or the WHO. There is a list of WHO authorized vaccines in the link above. If you do not have access to an authorized COVID vaccine where you are living please let our medical records office know at: Medical.Records@Dartmouth.edu. The Health Service will help you get access to the vaccine when you arrive to campus if you haven't been able to be fully vaccinated before arrival. Please note it will take one to two weeks to process your COVID-19 vaccine documentation. If you would like to confirm that your immunization record has been updated, please visit https://healthservices.dartmouth.edu and go to the immunizations tab, where all of your vaccines will be reflected. We are unable to respond to emails regarding your COVID-19 record unless a correction or more information is needed. Coming to Campus We are looking forward to meeting you all this fall – Here is some helpful information ahead of time. Vaccination Information https://students.dartmouth.edu/health-service/about/covid-19-campus-information/covid-details-vaccination-and-quarantine-updates/vax-faqs · If you have not been vaccinated - Will we offer COVID-19 vaccine at Dartmouth? Dartmouth has previously partnered with DHMC and the State of NH to vaccinate Dartmouth community members. We plan to offer more vaccination opportunities on campus in the future and can support students who need to be vaccinated due to lack of access to vaccine. We encourage all students to get vaccinated as soon as they can, whether they live internationally or in the US. You can register for vaccine through the State of NH at https://www.vaccines.nh.gov/ International Students: Travel Guidance https://ovis-intl.dartmouth.edu/visas-travel/travel/travel-guidance Guarini School Orientation information will be sent and posted in mid-August. In the meantime, below is some helpful information for your arrival: Self-Quarantine Guidelines - Please read the Dartmouth guidelines for self-quarantine for when you arrive on campus. The guidelines are changing, so please check before you leave for Dartmouth. ON-CAMPUS HOUSING Guarini graduate students living in on-campus housing will be able to get their keys at Safety and Security at 5 Rope Ferry Road or for Sachem Housing, Melissa R. Jewell will be available to provide your keys. OTHER COMMUNICATIONS Dartmouth ID Cards – Please make sure to upload a photo. We would like to process your id card as soon as possible so it will be ready when you arrive. Your department will give you your Dartmouth ID card. Slack Workspace – Guarini Fellow, Sidhartha Jandhyala, is creating a Slack Workspace (Dartmouth Guarini School for Advanced Studies) for incoming students to chat with each other and the Guarini Fellows and Ambassadors. You will receive an invite to join in the summer. Click here for more information on how to access Slack. Helpful Links: Guarini School/Dartmouth Covid 19 Information – here. Dartmouth Office of Visa & Immigration Services – click here. Dartmouth Rental Housing List – click here. Dartmouth Campus Maps – click here COVID-19 Testing COVID Testing Guidelines for Guarini Grad Students Please visit HERE On-Campus Housing Guarini graduate students living in on-campus housing will be able go to the Real-Estate Office at 4 Currier Place Suite 305 (8:30-3:30, Mon.-Fri.) for their apartment keys. In addition, Guarini Students may request the Real-Estate Office leave their keys with Safety and Security (with 3 days in advance notice) at 5 Rope Ferry Road. For Sachem Housing, Melissa R. Jewell will be available to provide your keys. Other Communications Dartmouth ID Cards – Please make sure to upload a photo. We would like to process your id card as soon as possible so it will be ready when you arrive. Your department will give you your Dartmouth id card. Slack Workspace – Guarini Fellow, Sidhartha Jandhyala, is creating a Slack Workspace (Dartmouth Guarini School for Advanced Studies) for incoming students to chat with each other and the Guarini Fellows and Ambassadors. You will receive an invite to join soon. Click here for more information on how to access Slack. Helpful Links: Guarini School/Dartmouth Covid 19 Information – here. Dartmouth Office of Visa & Immigration Services – click here. Dartmouth Rental Housing List – click here. Dartmouth Campus Maps – click here Main menu Dartmouth College Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Alumni Graduate Alumni Research Award Stay Connected Tell Us Your Story Faculty Required Syllabi Language Mentoring Resources Ribbon Footer View policies relating to graduate courses. Courses View all the GRAD policies in one place. Policies View the Academic Honor Code and other related regulations. Academic Conduct Regulations Close Contact Guarini Admissions. Find out more about applying to the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. APPLY Find out more about tuition and living costs. Tuition & Living Costs Find out more about funding available through fellowships, grants, and awards. Funding Close People Admissions Guarini.Graduate.Admissions@Dartmouth.edu General Guarini.Graduate.School@dartmouth.edu Current Students & Postdocs Please Complete Our Contact Form Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies 64 College Street Anonymous Hall Suite 102 Hanover New Hampshire 03755-3563Come Find Us! Phone: 603-646-2106 Fax: 603-646-8762 HB: HB 6062 Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Close Policies Apply Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback