Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying to Princeton Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Prospective Inquiry I-9 Information FAQ Application Reapplying Recommenders Transcripts VSRC - Nondegree English Language Test Scores Prerequisite Test Scores Admission fcc.jpg Academic home to more than 2,700 graduate students, 5,300 undergraduates, and 1,100 faculty members, Princeton University offers a unique combination of resources in a community that provides wide-ranging cultural and intellectual opportunities. We encourage you to peruse our offerings and meet with our faculty to discover which field of study is best suited for your interests. By doing so, you will get a feel of what it is like to reside in our community of scholars, collaborate with our distinguished faculty and work in our state-of-the-art facilities. Scholars from all disciplines, backgrounds and interests are encouraged to apply. The University prepares graduate students for distinguished careers in research, teaching, and as experts in the public and private sectors. Master’s students are trained to assess information and trends in their fields and to create original works. Doctoral students perform research at the highest level, advancing knowledge in their fields. Princeton’s commitment to supporting students’ scholarly activity is demonstrated in numerous ways, including generous funding in which Princeton guarantees full tuition, fees, and a stipend for its regularly enrolled, degree-seeking Ph.D. candidates for all years of regular program enrollment, contingent upon satisfactory academic performance. Explore this section of our website to learn more about applying to Princeton. If you have further questions, please feel free to contact us. The Graduate School recognizes the significant disruption caused by COVID-19 and will take that into account when reviewing applicants’ records and transcripts. While a final transcript submitted by an applicant who is offered admission must still in all cases indicate that an undergraduate degree or its international equivalent has been awarded prior to enrolling at the Graduate School, we appreciate that many applicants currently enrolled in degree programs will pursue pass/fail or other non-standard grading options during this extraordinary time. Applying to Princeton Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Prospective Inquiry I-9 Information FAQ Application Reapplying Recommenders Transcripts VSRC - Nondegree English Language Test Scores Prerequisite Test Scores Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University