Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Tuition and Costs Stipend Rates Funding Sources Fellowships Assistantships External Funding Professional Development and Scholarly Travel Grants Summer Funding Veterans Benefits Assistance Programs Dean's Completion Fellowship/PGRA Program Education Loans and Work Study Graduate Student Hourly Employment Definitions Policies Financial Wellness Fellow Program Tiger Cents Chronicles Funding Sources Overview Princeton University’s Graduate School is committed to supporting its Ph.D. students through a variety of funding sources. In general, the types of funding provided to regularly enrolled Ph.D. candidates consist of: University, departmental, and program fellowships Research and teaching assistantships External financial support Over the course of regular enrollment, it is common for a student to have their financial support provided by a combination of funding sources. In general, if a student receives a combination of financial support from the University in a given term or year, the tuition and stipend components of their total support are adjusted proportionately. If an external award is received, any University awards are adjusted accordingly. While Princeton provides all of its first year Ph.D. students with fellowship funding to allow students to devote themselves full time to graduate study, funding for subsequent years of study varies by division. The general funding patterns for Ph.D. candidates are described below, by division. Humanities and Social Sciences A typical first year student entering in the Humanities and Social Sciences divisions receives a University Fellowship, which provides full tuition and fees plus a 12-month stipend for the year beginning in August. In subsequent years, returning Ph.D. students in the Humanities and Social Sciences departments typically continue to receive a University Fellowship as their base financial support, unless they have alternate sources of funding. Natural Sciences and Engineering A typical first year student entering in the Natural Sciences and Engineering divisions receives a First Year Fellowship, which provides full tuition and fees plus a 10-month stipend. Summer support up to an additional $8,000 is available depending upon a department’s resources. In subsequent years for Ph.D. candidates in the Natural Sciences and Engineering divisions, a student’s department provides financial support for the academic year and the summer, typically in the form of an Assistantship in Research. A student’s support may be also be provided by Assistantships in Instruction, other departmental funds, or external fellowships. The webpages in this section provide an overview of these different types of funding available to graduate students throughout their regular enrollment period. Resources Tax Information Tuition and Costs Stipend Rates Funding Sources Fellowships Assistantships External Funding Professional Development and Scholarly Travel Grants Summer Funding Veterans Benefits Assistance Programs Dean's Completion Fellowship/PGRA Program Education Loans and Work Study Graduate Student Hourly Employment Definitions Policies Financial Wellness Fellow Program Tiger Cents Chronicles Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University