Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Loan Eligibility Appeals Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Basics Sub Navigation In This Section Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Loan Eligibility Appeals If you wish to appeal your departmental funding or have special financial circumstances, we suggest contacting your program directly. Only a few departments have funding to offer grants or stipends to master's students. The Office of Financial Aid offers no aid besides loan borrowing and cannot adjust your current financial aid award. If you wish to appeal your departmental funding (grant, scholarship or stipend) or have special financial circumstances, we suggest contacting your program directly. If you require additional loan funding but currently do not have any remaining loan eligibility, you may submit a Loan Eligibility Appeal Form to our office. This form is used to determine if your actual educational expenses outside of Tuition and Fees exceed your estimated budget allowances. Documentation (i.e. copies of rent/lease agreements, utility bills, computer purchase receipt, etc.) must be submitted for review with the Loan Eligibility Appeal. Loan Eligibility Appeal You can request additional information on the Loan Eligibility Appeal by simply stopping by our office or emailing your request to GS_Financial_Aid@Brown.edu Request a Loan Eligibility Appeal Federal Student Aid Federal loans are available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Private Educational Loans Private educational loans are available to domestic and international graduate students. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Loan Eligibility Appeals Open details for Loan Eligibility Appeals Bookmark this Page