Search How to Apply to UCLA Grad School Programs Programs A-Z Programs Sorted by Schools Program Statistics Admissions Steps To Apply Diversity in Admissions International Applicants Calendar Visiting UCLA Apply FAQs Academics Master’s Studies Doctoral Studies Academic Calendar Research Forms FAQs Funding Search for Funding Financial Aid & Finances Tuition Calendar Working at UCLA FAQs Life at UCLA Map Housing & Transportation Healthcare Resources Events Diversity at UCLA Our Students FAQs SmartRecs Recommendations Notifications My Favorites Settings Giving to UCLA’s Graduate Education Why Give to UCLA Grad? Opportunities to Give Recommendations Notifications My Favorites Settings Sign Out Go.Grad Favorites, recommendations, and notifications are only available for UCLA Graduate Students at this time. Sign Out Sign In Why Sign In? Access features exclusively for UCLA students and staff. As a student, you can: Add funding awards to your favorites list Get notified of upcoming deadlines and events Receive personalized recommendations for funding awards Sign In search grad.ucla Search Skip to content Show or hide navigation menu Sign in Recommendations Notifications My Favorites Settings Sign Out Go.Grad Favorites, recommendations, and notifications are only available for UCLA Graduate Students at this time. Sign Out Research We're Sorry You've signed in with a UCLA undergraduate student account. Sign in features are only available for UCLA graduate students at this time. OK, Sign me out For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. UCLA Graduate Programs Give ToUCLA Graduate Education Master’s Studies Doctoral Studies Academic Calendar Research Forms FAQs Research Whether you’re a new grad student, a postdoc, a visiting graduate researcher, or a prospective applicant looking to see what research work we’re doing on campus, we’ve compiled several research resources in one place. As a graduate student at UCLA, you will do more than learn about a field. You will shape research questions and forge new paths. You will discover, invent, and find solutions. You will have the opportunity to inspire the students whom you teach and the mentors who guide you. You will have the opportunity to develop as a communicator, teacher, collaborator and leader. And when you graduate, you will join the thousands of UCLA alumni who through their values, experience, talents and efforts are finding solutions to the problems facing our world today. Robin L. Garrell Form Dean, UCLA Graduate Division Professor Emerita of Chemistry and Bioengineering Visiting Graduate Researchers Visiting Graduate Researchers are domestic or international degree-seeking graduate students at their home institution who are invited to conduct short-term doctoral research or participate in a mentored or independent research project or master’s research collaborations with a faculty member at UCLA. The initial Visiting Graduate Researcher appointment can range from 3 weeks to 12 months; the maximum stay is 24 months. Postdoctoral Scholars A Postdoctoral Scholar (Postdoc) is an individual who holds a doctoral degree and is engaged in advanced training and education, and conducts research under the guidance of a faculty member at UCLA. A postdoctoral scholar position prepares you for a career in academia, industry, government or the non-profit sector. Each year, UCLA hosts approximately 1,400 postdocs from across the world who play a critical role in furthering the University’s educational and research mission. Research Assistantships Graduate Student Researcher positions provide experience working on faculty-supervised research projects. Applicants should inquire within their department. Internships The UCLA Career Center’s Handshake is a good place to start looking for internships, as is the UCLA International Education Office if you’re looking for an experience abroad. Other places are your home program/department and other programs/departments on campus. Summer Programs Many UCLA summer programs are designed to give undergraduates research experience prior to applying to graduate school. Head to our Admissions section to learn more about Undergraduate Summer Programs. For graduate students, search our Graduate Funding Search Engine to see what current research opportunities are available through the summer. UCLA-Peking Joint Research Institute Summer Exchange Interested in learning more about applying at UCLA Graduate School? UCLA will never share your email address and you may unsubscribe at any time. Sign Up × Loading... About Us Campus Map Terms of Use Contact Us Accessibility UCLA.edu UCLA Grad School Twitter UCLA Grad School Instagram UCLA Grad School YouTube Support Graduate Education 7ads6x98y X