Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Faculty Faculty Faculty at The University of Texas at Austin receive the support of the Graduate School in both their teaching and research. Look to these resources for assistance. 2022 - 2023 Graduate Catalog Updates From approximately October 15, 2021, through January 15, 2022, the Graduate School will accept requests to update the 2022-22 Graduate Catalog. Read More Mentoring Fellowship The Mentoring Fellowship program helps faculty members in recruiting outstanding new graduate students that add to the diversity of the campus. Read More Graduate Assembly Legislative functions with respect to graduate programs are exercised through the Graduate Assembly. Read More Funding Opportunities Faculty Travel Grants Eligible faculty may receive as much as $1,400 per academic year for travel expenses to present original papers at scholarly and professional meetings. Faculty Research Assignments Faculty Research Assignments support initiation, furtherance or completion of a tenured faculty member’s specific research project. Summer Research Assignments Summer Research Assignments provide tenure-track faculty members with salary support while they concentrate on research and writing during the summer. Big XII Faculty Fellowships Big XII Faculty Fellowships stimulate scholarly initiatives by offering faculty the opportunity to travel to member institutions to exchange ideas and pursue research. Pivot Pivot is an external funding opportunity database that complies more than 10,000 federal and private funding opportunities. Research Information Office of VP of Research Connect with the Office of the Vice President for Research. Research Grants See a listing of awards, fellowships and grants available to researchers. Hamilton Faculty Author Awards Program Learn about awards available to faculty and staff publishing book-length works. Find Funding Read news of research honors, awards, programs and deadlines; find out about researchers quoted in news media; and see listings of funding opportunities. Visiting Researchers & Scholars Complete the steps to nominate a Research Affiliate. Quick Links Office of the Executive VP and Provost Programs & Contacts Milestones Postdoctoral Office Option III Guidelines Authorization to Teach Graduate Level Courses Organizations & Committees Faculty Committee Reports List of Graduate Faculty Graduate Studies Committee (GSC) List and Search Theses & Dissertations Report on Doctoral Dissertation (PDF) Digital Submission Requirement Oral Examinations Retiring Emeritus Faculty on a GSC Evaluation Decisions for Doctoral Defense Graduate Program Reviews External Review Materials (PDF) External Review Schedule (PDF) Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022