Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Spotlight: Abby Kelly Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Yonatan Eyal Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Apply » Transcript Submission Policy Set Navigation title in component Admission Criteria Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Graduate School Policy on Transcript Submission for Admission These policies are the minimum requirements as set by the Graduate School for all graduate programs (with the exception of the JD, MD and PharmD) and apply to all admissions applications. Individual programs may set additional requirements or earlier deadlines for the submission of materials. Contact a specific program of interest for complete requirements information. Official transcripts are not required by the Graduate School at the time of application, but are required from all students who accept an offer of admission to the university. Know Before You Order Have you accepted admission into a graduate program yet? If not, please wait until you accept your offer of admission to send your official transcript. We will not process any transcripts for applicants who have not accepted an offer of admission. Did you just graduate? Before you order, check with your institution to make sure your completed degree will be listed on your transcript. If your transcript does not verify that you have earned your degree, you will be required to send us a new transcript, once that information is added to your student record. Are you ordering an electronic transcript? You must have the institution send your electronic transcript directly to the Graduate School (grad.info@uc.edu). Electronic transcripts received by the student and then forwarded on to the Graduate School are not considered official. Only electronic transcripts sent directly to UC are considered official. Are you ordering paper copies to be sent to yourself? We can accept paper transcripts from students only if the transcript is still in its original, sealed envelope. We will not accept transcripts if the envelope has been opened or if the envelope has been resealed. Did you earn your degree in China? For degrees received in China, view the policy outlined below. "Can I get my transcript back?" No. Once submitted to the Graduate School, transcripts become the property of the university and cannot be returned to the student. "What happens if I send a transcript that is not accepted as an official document?" The Graduate School has very specific requirements for what makes a transcript official. Unofficial transcripts will not be retained. Please see the next section for all criteria a transcript must meet to be considered official. Transcript Submission Policy (For degrees received in China: View the policy outlined below.) What does the Graduate School consider official transcripts? Transcripts are considered official when they arrive directly from the school in a sealed (fastened shut) envelope. The Graduate School will accept transcripts first received by the applicant and then forwarded to the Graduate School, provided that the transcripts stay in their original, sealed envelope. Once the applicant or someone outside the University of Cincinnati opens the transcript envelope, the Graduate School can no longer accept the transcript as official. The Graduate School also accepts electronic transcripts that are provided directly by the institution to UC. Electronic transcripts must be provided via the institution's official transcript service or by the designated administrator via an official institution email account. Providing academic records during the application process Applicants will be required to upload images or scans of their unofficial transcripts. Any significant discrepancies later found between student-provided unofficial transcripts and official transcripts will be grounds for dismissal. Unless a program has explicitly stated other requirements, it will only be necessary to submit official transcripts after an applicant has accepted an offer of admission. Do NOT send official transcripts as part of your application if they are not required; this will slow down processing of your application and will not benefit the admissions process. Deadline for official transcripts with degree conferral Once an applicant has been extended an offer of admission to the University of Cincinnati and accepted, he or she should submit an official transcript showing conferral of a baccalaureate degree or higher as soon as possible. If transcripts do not explicitly state that a degree was conferred, the educational institution must separately document the earned degree (ideally in a letter sent with the official transcript). The deadline for submission of official transcripts is one week before the end of classes in the student's first semester. Students will not be allowed to complete a full academic year without providing verification of an earned baccalaureate degree or higher. Individual programs may require the submission of additional official transcripts, and students should consult with the program to find out the requirements. Official transcripts can be sent to the following addresses: Regular U.S. postal mail: Graduate School University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, Ohio 45221-0627 Delivery via parcel delivery service (FedEx, DHL, UPS, etc.): Graduate School University of Cincinnati 2614 McMicken Circle 110 Van Wormer Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0627 Additionally, many schools now send transcripts electronically. The Graduate School accepts electronic transcripts sent directly by the school as official transcripts. These documents can be sent to grad.info@uc.edu. UC alumni Students who have received degrees from the University of Cincinnati do not need to submit official copies of their UC transcripts. However, if the program to which the student is applying requires the use of an outside Common Application System, applicants should follow those guidelines for submitting documentation and may be required to submit official UC transcripts to that organization. Students with degrees received in China (excluding Hong Kong & Macau) (For degrees received in Hong Kong or Macau: Follow policy outlined above.) During the application process Applicants who have received degrees in China will upload scans or images of their transcripts along with English translations. These "unofficial transcripts" are required during the application process. These documents do not need to be verified at this stage of the application process. After being accepted to join a graduate program Those admitted students who have received a degree in China will not submit the usual official transcripts. Instead, they must have their degrees verified by the China Academic Degrees and Graduate Education Development Center (CDGDC). For admissions review purposes (during the application process only), these students will apply with unofficial transcripts and translations like all other applicants. After being accepted to join a graduate program, applicants who have earned a degree from China must submit electronic (or scanned originals) of the Degree Certificate in English and Chinese and electronic CDGDC degree certificate verification report in Chinese. Send these items to grad.info@uc.edu along with your name and M# (your UC student ID number). The subject line of the email should read: “CDGDC [Your Name] [M#]” Applicants with Chinese transcripts must contact the CDGCD after their degree is completed. Students who request a verification report prior to degree conferral will be required to submit a second report after degree conferral. Students who have completed coursework in China but not received a degree will not be required to submit verification through the CDGDC. Order a verification report from the CDGDC Chinese language page for ordering a verification report English language page for ordering a verification report When are student verification reports due? CDGDC verification reports should be sent to the Graduate school as soon as possible after admission. The final deadline for submission of official transcripts is one week before the end of classes in the student's first semester. Failure to submit verification reports will result in students being placed in non-matriculated status, which will result in UC revoking the student’s visa. What is the cost of a verification report? CDGDC has moved to an electronic only service and no longer charges a fee for verification. This may be subject to change in the future. Question: The program I am applying to requires the use of a third-party evaluation—e.g., WES (World Education Services)—for transcript evaluation. If I send this evaluation report, do I also need to send a report from CDGDC? If the third-party evaluating agency is a NACES member and uses the CDGDC for their verification, you will not need to send a report from the CDGDC and the evaluation is sufficient for your application. If not, please contact grad.info@uc.edu to find out whether your evaluation will be accepted. More Questions? Contact the Graduate School at 513-556-4335 or grad.info@uc.edu. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top