Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments Ph.D. and M.S. Programs Atmospheric Science Climate and Health Data Science Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Meteorology and Physical Oceanography Ocean Engineering Ocean Sciences Master of Professional Science Admissions Welcome from Associate Dean Application Information Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid Ph.D. Assistantships Tour Request Virtual Tour Undergraduate Prep Students Awards Course Schedules Forms, Guidelines, and Handbooks Ph.D. Assistantships Student Directory Student Organizations Contact Us Apply Now Ph.D. and M.S. Programs Master of Professional Science Admissions Students Contact Us Apply Now Search Ph.D. and M.S. Programs Atmospheric Science Climate and Health Data Science Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Meteorology and Physical Oceanography Ocean Engineering Ocean Sciences Master of Professional Science Admissions Welcome from Associate Dean Application Information Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid Ph.D. Assistantships Tour Request Virtual Tour Undergraduate Prep Students Awards Course Schedules Forms, Guidelines, and Handbooks Ph.D. Assistantships Student Directory Student Organizations Contact Us Apply Now GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply PH D Assistantships List of Ph.D. Research Assistantships 2022 PH D Assistantships List of Ph.D. Research Assistantships 2022 Graduate Tour CLICK HERE FOR VIRTUAL WALK THROUGH Graduate Tour CLICK HERE FOR VIRTUAL WALK THROUGH Atmospheric Sciences Research areas include tropical meteorology and hurricanes, climate dynamics and prediction, cloud and aerosol processes, and atmospheric chemistry. Learn more Environmental Science & Policy Our research integrates natural and social science to contribute new knowledge to the development of real-world solutions to environmental challenges. Learn more Marine Biology & Ecology Research areas in marine biology and ecology include coral reef studies, biological oceanography, physiology, genomics, fisheries biology, and the biology and behavior of marine animals. Learn more Marine Geosciences The Department of Marine Geosciences (MGS) employs traditional and cutting-edge tools to examine the evolution of Earth, its climate, and the biosphere. Learn more Meteorology & Physical Oceanography Research areas include ocean and atmospheric dynamics, climate variability and prediction, ocean mixing and transport, air-sea interactions, coastal oceanography, uncertainty quantification and data assimilation in ocean and weather forecasts, hurricane and tropical meteorology. Learn more Ocean Engineering The MS in Ocean Engineering provides participants with a combination of engineering skills and strong scientific knowledge in the marine sciences, preparing them to address a variety of ocean-related engineering concerns in a rational and responsible manner. Learn more Ocean Sciences Broad understanding of the ocean with research concentrations on theoretical and experimental aspects of ocean dynamics, air-sea interaction and remote sensing, biophysical interactions, marine biogeochemistry. Learn more Climate and Health This new M.S. program (led by the Miller School of Medicine) will focus on relationships between human health, climate and weather, and will quantify these relationships at scales including gene-expression, individual susceptibility, community response, region-wide morbidity and mortality burden. Learn more Data Science The Master of Science in Data Science (MSDS) is designed to provide interdisciplinary connections and experiential learning opportunities across all aspects of data science and computing Learn more U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Ph.D. and M.S. Programs at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 Phone: 305-421-4155 Phone: 305-421-4155 Email: gso@rsmas.miami.edu Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices