Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Alumni Faculty Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Back to Top Nav Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Back to Top Nav Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Back to Top Nav Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Back to Top Nav Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Back to Top Nav Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Provost's Fellowship Program PROF Scholars McCulloch Fellowships MCB Core Class Mentoring Fellowship Guarini Fellowships Program Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Non-Degree Applicants Share Guarini Fellowships Program Guarini Fellowships Program Guarini Fellows are graduate students who will develop programming and serve as peer advisors, mentors, communicators, and advocates. Fellows must have strong interpersonal, writing and oral communication skills, the ability to work as a team, and experience to serve as peer advisors, mentors, and advocates for graduate students. Fellows will participate in leadership events and will be recognized on the website as Guarini Fellows. Fellows will meet weekly with their Assistant Dean/Director and other fellows in their area of interest. Guarini Fellowship applicants must be in good academic standing. All Fellows will be expected to continue to conduct research, fulfill all program specific responsibilities, and maintain satisfactory progress in their program for the duration of the Fellowship. Please see application for further eligibility requirements. Fellows will be provided a stipend of $4,000 for the 12 months of the fellowship over their normal stipend, and appointments will be for one-year with the option to apply for a second year. The fellow will be expected to work 8 hours per week. Interested applicants should send a letter of interest and resume. See descriptions below. Applications will be accepted until positions are filled. Faculty references and program approval will also be required. Scholars Program Fellowship Graduate fellows are selected for a 1-year fellowship towards the development of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging programming in their resident graduate programs. Fellows lead the development and implementation of a Scholars Program workshop designed to diversify the next generation of academic leaders in their respective graduate field. These workshops are designed to diversify graduate education by recruiting cohorts of scholars and provides them with an opportunity to experience graduate school at Dartmouth, while providing support and guidance in the graduate school application process that can otherwise be difficult to navigate. Fellows work in coordination with faculty mentors, Guarini staff and other graduate fellows to develop and coordinate workshop activities. Interested applicants should send a letter of interest and resume to Jane Seibel. Applications will be accepted until positions are filled. Faculty references and program approval will also be required. Position filled. Selection Process: Selected applicants will be required to participate in a brief in-person interview with the Selection Committee. Position filled. INTERNATIONAL GRADUATE MENTORING FELLOWSHIP The Guarini International Graduate Mentoring Fellowships were created with the purpose of developing graduate students as exceptional future faculty mentors. Fellowships will be awarded to graduate students who exemplify a deep commitment to fostering the professional development of a diverse cadre of graduate students from different backgrounds. A full explanation of responsibilities can be accessed HERE. Interested applicants should send a letter of interest and resume to Kerry Landers. Applications will be accepted until positions are filled. Faculty references and program approval will also be required. Position Filled Selection Process: Selected applicants will be required to participate in a brief in-person interview with the Selection Committee. Graduate Student Activities Fellowship Activities Fellows should expect to spend approximately 8 hours a week in their duties during the academic term. Fellows are required to spend about 4 hours each week in Guarini Graduate and Advanced Studies Office either attending meetings with the Assistant Dean or working on office programs and activities. As both a Fellow at the Guarini School and an executive board member of the GSC, the GSAC Fellow serves as an important bridge between the administration and the graduate student body and as such must attend and participate in the monthly GSC general council and executive board meetings. Expectations include: Design of unique and relevant social events and programs that appeal to diverse populations of graduate students in order to foster and strengthen the graduate community. Collaboration with and support of the Graduate Student Council (GSC) recognized student groups in planning events and programs. Assists in helping with the Guarini Commons (graduate student space). Assists in helping with Guarini School events such as orientation and graduation. Other duties as assigned A full explanation of responsibilities can be accessed HERE. Interested applicants should send a letter of interest and resume to Kerry Landers. Applications will be accepted until positions are filled. Faculty references and program approval will also be required. Position filled. Selection Process: Selected applicants will be required to participate in a brief in-person interview with the Selection Committee. Main menu Dartmouth College Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Alumni Graduate Alumni Research Award Stay Connected Tell Us Your Story Faculty Required Syllabi Language Mentoring Resources Ribbon Footer View policies relating to graduate courses. Courses View all the GRAD policies in one place. Policies View the Academic Honor Code and other related regulations. Academic Conduct Regulations Close Contact Guarini Admissions. Find out more about applying to the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. APPLY Find out more about tuition and living costs. Tuition & Living Costs Find out more about funding available through fellowships, grants, and awards. Funding Close People Admissions Guarini.Graduate.Admissions@Dartmouth.edu General Guarini.Graduate.School@dartmouth.edu Current Students & Postdocs Please Complete Our Contact Form Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies 64 College Street Anonymous Hall Suite 102 Hanover New Hampshire 03755-3563Come Find Us! Phone: 603-646-2106 Fax: 603-646-8762 HB: HB 6062 Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Close Policies Apply Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback