Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » Preparing Future Faculty » Legacy Program Set Navigation title in component Preparing Future Faculty Legacy Program Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Legacy Program PFF students engage in a reading group. The UC PFF program provides instruction in modern teaching and learning and offers rich mentoring experiences that strengthen these career skills. Established in 1993, the UC PFF program was one of the founding group of national PFF programs. Active participation in a PFF program is widely recognized as a valuable credential. UC's PFF program has transitioned from a certificate program to a participatory professional development program in the Graduate School. Matriculated prior to the fall 2019 application deadline? Great! Find all of the Legacy Program materials here. Program changes do not affect your PFF experiences. Not matriculated prior to the fall 2019 application deadline? Thank you for your interest in the program. Check out the other tabs on this website to learn more about the current PFF program. Contact the program coordinator at gradpff@uc.edu with any questions or concerns. Questions or concerns? No worries! Contact the program coordinator at gradpff@uc.edu for more guidance. Legacy Program Requirements The three semester-credit Teaching Effectiveness course (PD8041, offered fall semester) The two semester-credit Academic Job Search course (PD8042, offered spring semester) Five PFF-approved workshops Three reading groups as a participant and a fourth as a leader A 40-hour mentoring experience Legacy Program Mentoring Experience The culmination of the UC PFF program is the Mentoring Experience, which involves 40 hours of teaching- and service-related activities planned and conducted in close cooperation with an experienced mentor from the University of Cincinnati or from one of our Collaborating Cluster Institutions: Xavier University, Northern Kentucky University, Mount St. Joseph University, Thomas More College, Hebrew Union College, or UC Blue Ash College. Students may also select mentors from other tristate institutions of higher education but must first make separate arrangements with the PFF Program Coordinator. Completion of the mentoring experience is required to earn the PFF certificate. Mentorship Planning and Requirements Please note: the Teaching Effectiveness course must be completed before a Mentoring Agreement will be approved. Therefore, the minimum time to complete the PFF program is 1 year. Students with special circumstances for program completion must email gradpff@uc.edu to submit a request with a compelling rationale to the PFF program director. Furthermore, a student's advisor can no longer serve as the student's mentor for the mentoring experience. Please reach out to the PFF program coordinator at gradpff@uc.edu if you have any questions. The Student Explore your mentorship experience options in the Program Manual and then contact the program coordinator at gradpff@uc.edu to find a mentor or discuss the mentorship experience further. Complete a Mentoring Agreement Contract (see below) with the mentor and submit the signed document to gradpff@uc.edu for approval. The PFF program coordinator will either require revisions or approve the contract. Keep a log detailing all mentoring activities and the hours spent on those activities. Ideas include observing the mentor's teaching styles, meeting to discuss pedagogical styles and seeking suggestions on developing a syllabus. Complete at least 40 hours of mentoring activity. Write a mentorship report and submit the report to the PFF program coordinator. Guidelines for the Mentorship Report: The first section compares the experience to the plan described in the Mentoring Agreement. The student will discuss activities completed and hours spent on each. The second section (three-page essay) discusses differences between what was planned (goals) and what actually happened (realities), what the student learned from the experience and any suggestions for future mentees. The Mentor The mentor should collaborate with the student on the mentorship agreement contract, and the mentor must sign the contract. Upon completion of the mentorship experience, the mentor must complete the Post-mentoring Assessment form and Statement of Completion form and submit the forms to gradpff@uc.edu. These forms are required in order for the student to complete the certificate, and the mentor will not be paid until these forms have been submitted. It is highly recommended that the mentor share the Post-Mentoring Assessment form with the PFF student. If the mentor is not a UC employee, the mentor must complete a Personal Services Contract form and a Certification of Completed Mentorship form, which are required to process the mentor's honorarium. Mentoring Agreement Contract Students: use this form to lay out the details of your upcoming mentorship, including how you will spend the required 40 hours. Mentoring Agreement Contract (DOCX) Legacy Program Manual and Checklist Download or bookmark the PFF Program Manual. This manual contains the program's policies and procedures, and it will serve as a helpful guide for your Preparing Future Faculty experience. PFF Program Manual (PDF) Download the Preparing Future Faculty Certification Checklist to track your progress as you complete program requirements. Both Word and PDF versions are available for your convenience. PFF Certification Checklist (DOCX) PFF Certification Checklist (PDF) To view these documents, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download. Legacy Program Professional Development Resources The Graduate Association for Teaching Enhancement (GATE) This group of graduate students and postdocs with a passion for teaching support the professional development of TAs and future professors at UC. The organization provides informaiton and instruction on innovative teaching methods, basic career guidance and netwroking opportunities with fellow graduate students who share a common vision of teaching and learning excellence. National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Provides external mentoring for graduate students, post-docs and university professors. POD Network The Professional and Organizational Development (POD) Network in Higher Education is devoted to improving teaching and learning in higher education. POD provides its members with personal and academic relationships that are essential for professional growth. Faculty Focus Through its free e-newsletter and dedicated website, Faculty Focus publishes articles on effective teaching strategies for the college classroom — face-to-face, online, blended, or flipped. From the Professor's Bookshelf: GATE & PFF Bibliography Download a combination of the PFF & GATE bibliographies to use as a reference for relevant, insightful reading. The list includes information on where you can get a copy of the title and a brief description of the text. GATE and PFF Bibliography (PDF) Keep current with our list of recommended articles from organizations such as Inside Higher Ed and the Chronicle of Higher Education. Articles (PDF) To view these documents, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download. Questions? Contact the PFF program coordinator, Cory Whitworth: 110 Van Wormer Hall 513-556-4335 gradpff@uc.edu Office Hours, Fall 2019 Monday, 8:00 a.m.–3:30 p.m. Tuesday, 8:00 a.m.–3:30 p.m. Wednesday, 10:30 a.m.–3:30 p.m. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top