Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School Graduate Research Office of Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Research is the lifeblood of modern graduate programs and a defining element of an institution’s character.   The University of Tulsa research projects and graduate programs incorporate a set of core values that reflect the University’s mission statement and educational goals: Excellence in scholarship Dedication to free inquiry Integrity of character Commitment to humanity The core values define the unique qualities of TU’s graduate programs and research projects. New and exciting research opportunities occur all over campus and are not confined to the laboratory or the classroom. Community involvement and an understanding of the ethical implications of one’s research are essential elements of TU research and graduate studies. When considering graduate programs, you should consider how an institution’s research will shape your academic experience and professional future. Research is going on all over the TU campus and addresses everything from new petrochemical technologies to the impact of traumatic events on the human psyche. Just the Facts Total funded external research, 2019-2020: $17,571,288 Total sponsored grants and contracts, 2019-20: 198 Funding sources: 40% federal, 53% private sector, 5% state and local government and 2% non-profit/other organizations Federal funding sources: Department of Agriculture Department of Defense Department of Energy Department of Homeland Security Department of Justice Internal Revenue Service National Aeronautics and Space Administration National Endowment for the Humanities National Institutes of Health National Science Foundation National Security Agency Internal funding for student research, 2019-20: $45,462 Internal funding for faculty and student travel, 2019-20: $24,206 Active Consortia and Joint Industry Projects Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things Center for Boundary Integral Methods Computational Neuroscience and Adaptive Systems Lab (CNAS) Crash Reconstruction Research Consortium Critical Infrastructure Protection Lab Cyber Corps Program Erosion Corrosion Research Center Hurricane Motor Works (HMW) Indoor Air Program Insilico Research Group Materials Research Group MultiAgent SysTEms ReSearch Group (MASTERS) Software Engineering Architecture Team (SEAT) TU Artificial Lift Projects (TUALP) TU Center of Research Excellence (TUCoRE) TU Center for Reservoir Studies (TUCRS) TU Drilling Research Projects (TUDRP) TU Fluid Flow Projects (TUFFP) TU High-Viscosity Oil Projects (TUHOP) TU Hydrates Flow Projects (TUHFP) TU Paraffin Deposition Project (TUPDP) TU Petroleum Reservoir Exploitation Projects (TUPREP) TU Separation Technology Projects (TUSTP) Interdisciplinary Institutes Institute of Alternative Energy (TIAE) Institute for Biochemical and Psychological Study of Individual Differences (IBPID) Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (IBCB) Institute for Information Security (iSEC) Institute of Nanotechnology (NANO) Institute for Software Research (TUISR) Oklahoma Center for the Humanities (OCH) Oklahoma Photovoltaic Institute (OKPV) Tulsa Institute for Trauma, Adversity and Injustice (TITAN) TU Institute for Bob Dylan Studies 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT