Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Italian Studies Ph.D. school Graduate School department Italian Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Italian Studies program offers students the opportunity to study the language, history and culture of Italy under the guidance of internationally renowned scholars in anthropology, history, history of art and architecture, literature and modern culture and media. The doctoral program in Italian Studies prepares students for research and teaching positions in academic environments, and in the world of advanced thought more generally. The program emphasizes an interdisciplinary "cultural studies" perspective, while maintaining vital links to literary-critical, philosophical, art-historical and historical disciplines. Along with intensive training in teaching language and culture at all levels, we offer our students preparation in the most recent relevant theories and methodologies, including special training in the digital humanities. Additional Resources Audio-visual equipment, online resources for teaching and research (the Virtual Humanities Lab), departmental library, and reading room. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (in Italian and English). Additional Requirements: Fluency in Italian. Proficiency in English. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 5, 2022 Completion Requirements At least 12 courses in Italian Studies are required of doctoral students, including: ITAL 1610 – Dante ITAL 2100 – Introduction to Italian Studies ITAL 2820 – Italian Studies Colloquium ITAL 2900 – Teaching Methodology Distribution requirements: All students must take at least 3 courses in Medieval/Early Modern Italian Studies and 3 courses in Modern/Contemporary Italian Studies. All students must take at least one 1000– or 2000–level course in three out of the four following disciplinary fields: Italian literature; Italian history and anthropology; History of Italian art and architecture; Italian film and media studies. Please note: one course can fulfill both the chronological and the field requirement (for example: a course in Renaissance art can fulfill both the Medieval/Early Modern and history of Italian art and architecture field requirement). Additional Requirements: First year review; preliminary examination; dissertation; four–semester teaching requirement; language requirement (demonstrated reading proficiency in two languages, other than English and Italian). Students entering with a master's or an Italian Laurea may transfer up to eight course credits, of which only four may be applied to course requirements in Italian Studies. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg suzanne_stewart-steinberg@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Massimo Riva massimo_riva@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Italian Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1942 Italian_Studies@brown.edu 401-863-1561 Visit the Department of Italian Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Italian Studies Open details for Italian Studies Bookmark this Page