Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Alumni Faculty Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Back to Top Nav Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Back to Top Nav Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Back to Top Nav Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Back to Top Nav Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Back to Top Nav Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Share The Mystery Behind Magnetic Explosions Explained Posted on May 06, 2022 by David Hirsch News subtitle Study reveals the force behind solar flares and other dramatic space shows. Image Image Solar flares and coronal mass ejections are caused by “magnetic reconnection”—when magnetic field lines merge, rejoin, and snap apart. (Photo courtesy of NASA Conceptual Image Laboratory) Body Space enthusiasts and just about anybody who manages a power grid, an orbiting satellite, or a radiocommunications network has had their attention fixed on the sun since NASA reported “significant” solar flare activity last month. Yi-Hsin Liu, an assistant professor of physics and astronomy who recently published research on the physics behind solar flares, is among them. “The snapping of magnetic lines forces out magnetized plasma at high speeds,” Liu says in describing the natural forces at play. “This is a magnetic tension force similar to that which ejects objects from slingshots, just on a scale many times the size of Earth.” Image Yi-Hsin Liu’s research explains the forces behind solar flares and other magnetic explosions. (Photo by Robert Gill) Plasma is the fourth state of matter, along with solids, liquids, and gas. It consists of charged particles and fills most of the visible universe. These charged particles stream along magnetic field lines surrounding the sun and Earth, like the movement of cars in lanes of traffic. The solar flares and coronal mass ejections that have captured recent attention are giant bursts of energy caused when magnetic field lines merge and whip apart. Energy from the explosions can travel the 94-million-mile expanse between the sun and Earth within a day and can cause broadcast interference and power outages such as a provincewide blackout in Quebec in 1989. “Magnetic reconnection causes explosions that release massive amounts of energy,” says Liu. The fundamentals of magnetic reconnection are well known. The process takes place when magnetic field lines are drawn toward each other, break apart, rejoin, and then violently snap away. But researchers have struggled for more than a half-century to explain the precise physics behind the rapid release of energy. Remote video URL This explanatory video demonstrates the transport of magnetic energy (orange dots and lines) through the region of magnetic reconnection. (Animation courtesy NASA Goddard’s Conceptual Image Lab/Lisa Poje) Liu’s study was published in Communications Physics only a few weeks after the April light show began erupting on the sun. It provides the first theoretical description of how a phenomenon known as the “Hall effect”—which describes the interaction between electric currents and the magnetic fields that surround them—determines the efficiency of magnetic reconnection. Quote We now have a full theory to address this long-standing problem of what drives the speed of some of the most explosive spectacles in nature. Attribution Yi-Hsin Liu, assistant professor of physics and astronomy The theoretical paper focuses on the “reconnection rate problem”—identifying the mechanisms that determine the speed at which the lines converge and pull apart. Co-authored by Xiaocan Li, a postdoctoral researcher, and Shan-Chang Lin, Guarini ’24, the study shows that the conversion of energy from the magnetic field to plasma particles is suppressed by the Hall effect. The pressure at the point where the lines merge is limited. That forces them to curve and pinch, resulting in a geometry that speeds the reconnection process. Image From left, Shan-Chang Lin, PhD candidate; Yi-Hsin Liu, assistant professor of physics and astronomy; and Xiaocan Li, postdoctoral researcher. (Photo by Robert Gill) The research team, funded by the National Science Foundation and NASA, is working alongside NASA’s Magnetospheric Multiscale Mission (MMS), which analyzes magnetic reconnection in space using four satellites flying in tight formation around Earth’s magnetosphere. Data from the instruments will be used to validate Liu’s theoretical finding. According to Liu, who serves as deputy lead of MMS’ theory and modeling team, magnetic reconnection in near space or distant space can significantly impact everyday life on Earth. This was made clear by the space weather and electrical disturbances caused by the sun’s recent flare activity. Liu’s research on magnetic reconnection has strong ties to previous Dartmouth research. Bengt Sonnerup, the Sydney E. Junkins 1887 Professor of Engineering Emeritus at Thayer School of Engineering, is credited with being the first researcher to point out the potential importance of the Hall effect during reconnection in space plasmas. “Yi-Hsin’s new work represents a great leap forward in our understanding of the process,” says Sonnerup, who first wrote about the Hall effect in 1961 and conducted an analysis of the reconnection process at Dartmouth in 1979. The new theory could further the technical understanding of solar flares and coronal mass ejection events such as those that have captivated researchers in recent weeks. It can also inform studies of geomagnetic substorms, the solar winds, and plasmas near neutron stars and black holes. Although there is no current applied use, some researchers have considered the possibility of using magnetic reconnection in spacecraft thrusters. “After decades of effort, we now have a full theory to address this long-standing problem of what drives the speed of some of the most explosive spectacles in nature,” says Liu. Main menu Dartmouth College Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies About Who We Are COVID-19 Guarini Updates Frank J. Guarini '46 Board of Advisors Factsheet Visual Identity From the Dean People Visiting Dartmouth Life & Community Get Involved Living Here Student Services Guarini Student Survey News & Events Academics Programs PhD Innovation Program at Dartmouth Internship and Experiential Learning Courses for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at Dartmouth Interdisciplinary Programs Summer Research Opportunities Academic Calendar Commencement & Investiture 2022 Orientation Ethics Training Sessions Graduate Student Appreciation Week Mental Health Awareness Month Graduate Registrar Academic Requirements Academic Standing Courses Transcript Requests Enrollment Verification Academic and Conduct Regulations Graduate School Academic Policies and Forms Academic Policies Thesis and Dissertation Forms Exit Forms Admissions & Financial Aid Applying to Dartmouth Funding NSF GRFP Fellowships Awards & Grants Tuition & Living Costs Financial Aid Institutional Financial Aid International Students Non-Degree Applicants Student Support Health and Wellness Support Graduate Student Council Resource Guide Mental Health Title IX Office Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Training Ethics Training Professional Development Academic Support Writing Support Disability-related Accommodations Teaching Support Career Services CVs and Resumes Correspondence Individual Development Plan (myIDP) Interview Practice & Techniques Externship Student Professional Development Groups Academic Jobs Non-Academic Jobs For Employers Research Grants and Funding Finding Funding Get in Touch Diversity Overview CARE First-Generation Students LGBTIQA+ Persons Students with Disabilities Service Members and Veterans Women Guarini Diversity Initiatives Campus Diversity Initiatives Recruitment ASURE International Students Postdocs Welcome Affiliated Fellows Career and Professional Development Postdoc Research Day National Postdoc Association Core Competencies Professional Affiliations Professional Development Award Advocacy and Support Postdoc Appreciation Week National Postdoc Association Mentoring Resources Dartmouth Postdoc Community Resources Get in Touch News Alumni Graduate Alumni Research Award Stay Connected Tell Us Your Story Faculty Required Syllabi Language Mentoring Resources Ribbon Footer View policies relating to graduate courses. Courses View all the GRAD policies in one place. Policies View the Academic Honor Code and other related regulations. Academic Conduct Regulations Close Contact Guarini Admissions. Find out more about applying to the School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. APPLY Find out more about tuition and living costs. Tuition & Living Costs Find out more about funding available through fellowships, grants, and awards. Funding Close People Admissions Guarini.Graduate.Admissions@Dartmouth.edu General Guarini.Graduate.School@dartmouth.edu Current Students & Postdocs Please Complete Our Contact Form Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies 64 College Street Anonymous Hall Suite 102 Hanover New Hampshire 03755-3563Come Find Us! Phone: 603-646-2106 Fax: 603-646-8762 HB: HB 6062 Email: Guarini.Graduate.School@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Close Policies Apply Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback