Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Public Affairs MPA school Graduate School Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Our MPA program provides students with the analytical foundations, policy domain knowledge, field experience, interdisciplinary tools, and leadership skills they need to tackle today's most intractable problems. Brown University offers a one–year Master of Public Affairs (MPA) program with an accelerated schedule (summer–fall–spring) for full–time students. Our MPA program provides students with the analytical foundations, policy domain knowledge, field experience, interdisciplinary tools, and leadership skills they need to tackle today's most intractable problems. The Brown University program prepares students for careers spanning public service, all levels of government, NGOs, foundations, and the private sector. Distinct features of our program include: Rigorous, multidisciplinary curriculum Consultancy project with leading policy organizations High–touch learning experience with dedicated career planning and professional coaching support Faculty comprised of world–renowned researchers and experienced practitioners Merit–based aid available The only one–year Master of Public Affairs degree program from an Ivy League institution The program's skills courses are designed to equip students with the data analytical tools and leadership skills needed to understand and address some of the world's most pressing problems. Students also engage in a three–month consultancy project. Students may apply to pursue a data–driven policy specialization to gain the tools needed to turn large data sets and behavioral science into improved policy. For more detail, see the curriculum page on the MPA website. Program of Study: For degree completion, students must complete at least 13 courses (10 credits). For more detail, see the curriculum page on the MPA website. Program Cost: Includes tuition, health insurance, and student fees. Please see detailed program costs on the MPA website. Admission Information Inquire Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Optional; the GRE General Test at home version is accepted. Applicants who do not submit official GRE scores are required to submit a quantitative resume. TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required Personal Statement: Your statement should outline why you have decided to pursue graduate work in policy. Discuss your interest in the policy field with specific focus on the policy area you are most interested in pursuing and how study at Brown will further your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required; a quantitative resume is also required for applicants who do not submit official GRE scores. A quantitative resume sample can be found on the MPA website. Additional Requirements: Comprehensive application requirements are detailed on the Master of Public Affairs website. If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. REGISTER FOR AN INFORMATION SESSION Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 19, 2022 5th Year Deadline January 19, 2022 Financial Aid Tuition: $7,808 per credit; 12 courses/10 credits in one year. See a summary of all direct-billed costs on the MPA website. Scholarships: Merit-based scholarships are awarded to qualified, eligible candidates, including international applicants. There is no additional application process to be considered for a merit scholarship. Student loans are available through our Office of Financial Aid to eligible U.S. applicants who submit a FAFSA. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Program Director Susan Moffitt susan_moffitt@brown.edu Director of Graduate Study Matthew J. Lyddon matthew_lyddon@brown.edu Contact and Location Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Mailing Address Brown University watsonmpa@brown.edu 401-863-9960 Visit the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Resources Master of Public Affairs Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Public Affairs Open details for Public Affairs Bookmark this Page