Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > About > Publications Publications ABOUT Facilities Program Director & Selected Participating Faculty FAQs The University of Tulsa and The Graduate School offer a number of publications to inform students about various opportunities as well as their responsibilities. The Graduate School, in particular, has several publications that assist faculty and graduate students with making graduate studies at TU a successful and rewarding experience for all participants. In addition, a number of academic journals are housed on the TU campus, giving students and faculty an opportunity to share their insights and research concerning academic topics with the larger academic community around the world. Newsletters The Graduate School Electronic Newsletter is published each fall and spring semester. It includes important and interesting information about the graduate offerings at the University of Tulsa as well as the graduate students currently enrolled at TU. All current graduate faculty, staff, and students are welcome to contribute to the Electronic Newsletter. To contribute information or an article, please contact Caitlin Getchell at 918-631-2686 or caitlin-getchell@utulsa.edu. Graduate-Newsletter-Fall 2021 Graduate-Newsletter-Spring-2018 Graduate Newsletter – Spring 2017 Graduate Newsletter – Fall 2016 Graduate Newsletter – Fall 2015 Graduate Newsletter – Spring 2014 Academic Journals Published at TU The University of Tulsa sponsors a number of academic and literary journals. In addition, several TU faculty edit academic journals not directly housed on our campus. Journals housed on the TU campus often offer opportunities for graduate students to assist with their production as either paid or unpaid editorial assistants. Graduate students interested in assisting with any of the journals listed below should contact the journal’s managing editor directly to learn more about available opportunities. Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, the first journal devoted solely to women’s literature, has for 32 years published groundbreaking articles, notes, research and reviews of literary, historicist and theoretical work by established and emerging scholars in the field of women’s literature and feminist theory. From its inception in 1982, Tulsa Studies has been devoted to the study of both literary and nonliterary texts — any and all works in every language and every historical period produced by women’s pens. James Joyce Quarterly For nearly 45 years, the James Joyce Quarterly has been the flagship journal of international Joyce studies. In each issue, the JJQ brings together a wide array of critical and theoretical work focusing on the life, writing and reception of James Joyce. Our goal is simple: to provide an open, lively and multidisciplinary forum for the international community of Joyce scholars, students and enthusiasts. The Modernist Journals Project The MJP is a multi-faceted project, intended to become a major resource for the study of the rise of modernism in the English-speaking world, with periodical literature at the center of this study. Its historical scope has a chronological range of 1890 to 1922 and a geographical range that extends to English language periodicals, wherever they were published. With magazines at the center, the MJP also has a generic range that extends to the digital publication of books directly connected to modernist periodicals and other supporting materials for the study of these periodicals. The MJP is a joint project of Brown University and The University of Tulsa. Nimrod International Journal of Prose and Poetry Nimrod, founded in 1956 at The University of Tulsa, has been active  in the discovery and publication of new writers for more than 50 years and has had increasing impact on the development of the careers of new writers for more than 28 years through the Nimrod/Hardman Awards. General Interest Graduate Publications Graduate School Bulletin The Graduate School Bulletin contains all policies and guidelines concerning graduate studies at the University of Tulsa. It also contains descriptions of each graduate degree program at TU. The Bulletin is updated every two years. Graduate School Viewbook The Graduate School viewbook provides insight into academic and social life at The University of Tulsa. Graduate Research Opportunities Whether you are interested in pursuing a master’s or a doctoral degree, get the answers to important questions as you consider graduate studies at the University of Tulsa and its associated research opportunities. Thesis and Dissertation Guidelines All students enrolled in a degree program that requires the completion of a thesis or dissertation should consult these guidelines in completing their work. The guidelines outline a number of important issues, including the proper formatting of the work and sources to ensure proper citation and utilization of sources. Graduate Assistant Handbook This handbook includes important information about the requirements and expectations of those graduate students working as teaching, research or administrative assistants on the TU campus. A workshop for new graduate assistants is offered prior to each fall semester in conjunction with the New Graduate Student Orientation program. Graduate Student Handbook The University of Tulsa Student Handbook provides students with academic and social information. The handbook addresses questions and concerns students face on a daily basis and helps students to know which people and organizations they should contact for assistance. Chronicle of Higher Education “Graduate Student Electronic Newsletter” This electronic newsletter has news and advice on surviving graduate school — from planning your dissertation to navigating the job market. Interested students must sign up at the link above to receive it. Graduate Advisor’s Handbook All graduate faculty who advise graduate students should read the Graduate Advisor’s Handbook. It contains useful information about the policies and procedures of the Graduate School and how advisors can assist the Graduate School and their graduate students to ensure that everyone’s graduate educational experiences at TU are positive and productive. Graduate Student Orientation Materials All of our updated orientation materials can now be found in Harvey. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT