Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Never too late: Single mom pursues a graduate degree Never too late: Single mom pursues a graduate degree September 23, 2019 As her daughter starts her freshman year of high school, Bettina Walker will be starting her second year in the molecular biology master’s program at The University of Tulsa. In spite of having her undergraduate degree in pre-med and a master’s in executive leadership, she wasn’t done with school. “I didn’t feel fulfilled in my career. I decided that I wanted to go back,” Walker said. “I applied to TU and told myself that if I got accepted, I would quit my job and relocate to Tulsa.” She left her career at the Social Security office in Chicago and moved with her daughter to Tulsa. Almost one year later, she’s tackling virology, more specifically, viruses in potatoes and soybeans. “I chose virology because I am interested in the viral diseases that affect both plants and humans,” she explained. When deciding on a university, TU stood out as a place where Walker could continue her education and Tulsa as a community where she could raise her teenage daughter. “I wanted to be somewhere where I could have a one-on-one relationship with professors as opposed to being just a number,” Walker said. TU has an average class size of 20 students. Being a single mother while being a teacher’s assistant and conducting researching has been tough, but her passion and the support system of her professors and family keeps her motivated. “When nontraditional students like Bettina come to the graduate school, I know that it is important for them to find a space that is both welcoming and understanding of their needs,” said Student Success Coach Nadia Hall, who recently transferred from TU’s Graduate School. “The first day Bettina walked through my door, I knew she had a fire for continuing her education and setting a positive example for other women aspiring to make amazing changes in their lives. She came to a city that was totally new for her, and she did it with confidence and grace. She immediately made TU and the city of Tulsa her home. In just a year, she became involved in the community and various graduate student events.” As a single mom, Walker is grateful for the support of her professors and fellow students. “The professors are amazing. They go out of their way to help students and make them feel accepted no matter their situation,” she described. Walker also finds time to focus on areas aside from her studies and her family. Recently, she was elected president of BioGrads, vice president of the Graduate Student Association and secretary of RAW writing club and poetry group. Motherhood When it comes time for homework, she and her daughter get it done together. Walker was told that it would be tough being a single mom and going back to school and it is. With so many commitments, “I have to find ways to balance motherhood and my education,” she stated. After studying, the two will watch movies, bowl and even play musical instruments together. While Walker is busy in the lab, her daughter spends her time taking care of a family of turtles in the Oliphant Hall sanctuary. Some professors have even invited Walker’s daughter to sit in one of their classes during the summer. “As a single mom, the most important factor for me was getting a great support system to help offset some of the tasks of motherhood. I have found that and more as a student at TU,” she stated. No limits Walker’s experiences have shaped her aspirations and cemented her dedication to achieving her goals. Growing up, Walker lived in the Robert Taylor Homes, a public housing project located on the south side of Chicago. Drugs and violence were prevalent, but Walkers says those “things I have encountered have made me who I am today.” Undeterred by her surroundings, a passion for education came to Walker at a young age. “I was in kindergarten by 3 years old,” she explained. She was valedictorian in her grade school class and was ranked in the top 10% of her high school. Walker was the first of six children in her family to graduate high school. “I chose to push myself through,” she said. Now, as a single mother getting her doctoral degree, Walker sets an example for her daughter. “Bettina is a self-motivated student pursuing a lifelong dream,” said Harrington Wells, professor of biological science. “I am honored to help her reach her career goal.” Following graduation, Walker plans to enroll in a post-doctoral program or pursue a career with the Food and Drug Administration, Environmental Protection Agency or Department of Agriculture. Whichever paths she chooses, Walker is set to fulfill her aspirations to balance the roles of mother and researcher. “It is never too late to pursue your dreams, yet the will to do so starts from within by setting short-term goals that lead to lifelong achievements,” she said. TU supports nontraditional students from all backgrounds. To learn more, visit the TU Graduate School. Biological Science, Commitment: Empowered, Commitment: Self-Discovery, Featured, Graduate School, News, Non-Traditional Student Stories, Stories, Student Stories 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT