Skip to content Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. Toggle navigation Graduate Studies About Tech Why Choose Tech Contact Us Diversity & Accessibility Visit Tech Academics & Research Degree Programs Colleges & Schools Professional Education Theses and Dissertations Research Resources Cost & Funding Cost & Fees Paying for Grad School Admissions Preparing Your Application Apply BS/MS Program Form International Applicants 62 or Older Program Student Information New Students Student Life International Students Professional Development Graduate Experience Survey Commencement News & Events Grad Buzz e-Newsletter News Events FAQ Faculty & Staff Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Admissions 62 or Older Program If you are a resident of Georgia who is 62 or older and are interested in taking graduate-level* courses, Georgia Tech offers a program that allows you to enroll in classes tuition free, depending upon available space. A waiver of in-state tuition and applicable student fees may be granted to legal residents of Georgia aged 62 and over. This waiver can remain in effect as long as you (the student) are continuously enrolled. The program is sponsored by the University System of Georgia. To participate, you will need to submit the following documentation and meet regular admission requirements: A completed online application for graduate admission, including the application fee. Within the application you will select the degree program under which you will take the course(s) of interest. You may apply as either a degree-seeking or Special non-degree seeking student, depending on your intent. A birth certificate or other acceptable and comparable written documentation to verify age. Office of the Registrar's Senior Citizen Waiver Application form. Official transcripts from all colleges and universities attended. Any applicable test scores, if required. Test score requirements may be waived by the program to which you are applying. Contact the degree program of interest to confirm. After completing the online application for admission to Georgia Tech, please submit required documents to the Office of Graduate Studies. Questions? Contact us here. *If you are interested in enrolling in undergraduate-level coursework, you will need to apply via the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Accessibility Information Per accessibility compliance standards, this page may have links to files that would require the downloading of additional software: Download Adobe Reader Download Microsoft Products Facebook YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login