Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Graduate School Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Programs Admissions Resources to Prepare for Graduate School Student Stories Adonara Mucek, Ph.D. Geology '17 Adriana Mendoza, Ph.D. Mathematics '14 Andrew Olsen Becca Maher ('21, Ph.D.) Bryan Lynn, Ph.D. Integrative Biology Celeste Frazier Barthel, Ph.D. Education '21 Diane Brandt Garrett Rogers Ginny Katz, Ph.D. Geography Jafra Thomas Jordan Jimmie Kelsey Contreras Layla Ghazi Marie Tosa, Ph.D. Wildlife Sciences Sara Letton Tiara Walz, Ph.D. Public Health Glossary of Terms Student Ambassadors Current Students Master's Students Doctoral Students Certificate Students New Graduate Students Grad Welcome Week 2022 Co-sponsorships Your Graduate Committee Student Resources Grad Appreciation Week Grad Research Photo Competition Tips for Scheduling Committee Meetings Program of Study Graduate Teaching Assistantship (GTA) Training Thesis Guide Commencement Grad Inspire Grievance Procedures Request a Workshop Earning Concurrent Degrees or Pursuing a Dual Major Videos Career Preparation Grad Writing Group Challenge Graduate Writing Center Graduate Writing Center Online GRAD 420 - Graduate School Preparation GRAD 512 - Current Issues in Higher Education GRAD 513 - Professional Development in College and University Teaching GRAD 514 GRAD 516 - Graduate Teaching Seminar GRAD 520 - Responsible Conduct of Research GRAD 521 - Research Data Management GRAD 542 - The Inclusive College Classroom GRAD 550 - Introduction to Online Teaching GRAD 560 - Theories of Teaching and Learning GRAD 561 - Course Design and Methods GRAD 599 - Creating Happiness GRAD 599 - Interdisciplinary Teams GRAD Courses OSU Grad Advantage WR 599 - Scientific and Technical Research Writing WR 599 - Writing Workshop for Thesis and Dissertation Writers Funding Postdocs Faculty Resources Graduate Faculty Membership Graduate Council Representatives Graduate Program Policies Policy updates Holistic Admissions Graduate Mentoring Defining the Graduate Mentor The Importance of Mentors Apprenticeship and Mentoring Mentor and Mentee Pairing Maintaining and Evaluating Mentoring Suggestions for Mentoring Programs Handbooks, Manuals, and Guides Mentoring Bibliography Excellence in Mentoring Award Outcomes Assessment of Graduate Programs Communication Items Graduate Recruitment Toolkit College and Program Recruitment Representatives Graduate Recruitment Tips Helpful Recruitment Links Shared Graduate Recruitment Schedule Leave of Absence and Family Medical Leave Eligibility Mentor Training for Faculty Student Funding Student Progress Student Registration Information Supporting Fulbright-Sponsored Students Diversity About News April 2022 Newsletter March 2022 Newsletter February 2022 Newsletter Staff Strategic Plan Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Programs Admissions Current Students Funding Postdocs Faculty Resources Diversity About Current Students Current Students Find the information you need to help move your degree progress forward. On this page: Degree Completion Steps and Deadlines Resources and Professional Development Special Events All Events Degree Completion Steps and Deadlines Master's students Doctoral students Certificate students Dual-majors and concurrent degrees All Forms All Policies Resources and Professional Development OSU Grad Advantage Take the self-assessment to gauge your skill level in five core competencies of personal and professional growth. OSU Grad Advantage New graduate students Read the new student checklist and find resources relevant to new students. New students Graduate Student Commons The Graduate Student Commons on the sixth floor of the Valley Library provides a place for students to relax, study, reserve rooms and meet with campus resource partners. Check out our drop-in and appointment schedules. Learn more about the Grad Commons Career preparation Available to all Oregon State students, Aurora's online tools and videos help students prepare for and navigate the academic and professional job market. Visit the OSU Career Development Center's graduate student page to find a career guide and other tools for your career preparation needs. Co-sponsorships The Graduate School offers consultation and matching funds for supporting graduate student success initiatives through co-sponsorships. Apply for a co-sponsorship Request a workshop Designed to demystify the ins and outs of graduate school. Any OSU graduate program, college, unit or recognized graduate student groups may request a workshop for a class, meeting, or get-together. Request a workshop GRAD courses The Graduate School and its partners deliver courses designed to support students. Please check the course catalog to confirm the term the course is offered. Find the list of courses Graduate Certificate in College and University Teaching This 18-credit certificate provides advanced course work and experiential learning opportunities to students who plan to teach in higher education settings, or need facilitation skills for other careers. Learn more about GCCUT Graduate Writing Center The GWC assists with theses and dissertations, seminar papers, manuscripts, IRB material, funding and research proposals, as well as conference and defense presentations. Visit the grad writing center Video library Watch video tutorials on common graduate student tasks like finding a GCR or steps to graduation. Find videos Campus resources Find academic, professional and student life resources from across Oregon State. View resources Student clubs and leadership opportunities Get involved and find community with these opportunities. Clubs and organizations Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate School Advisory Council Special Events by Term Grad Welcome Week (fall) Start building a solid graduate career with orientation, library day, and GTA training. Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) Training Get started teaching with on-demand informational sessions covering instructional policies and procedures and equity literacy in college teaching. Grad Writing Group Challenge (winter) The challenge is to form a writing group and then to meet virtually at least four times in February. Whether you are forming a group to work on your thesis or dissertation, grant or job applications, or coursework, we hope these meetings help you achieve your writing goals. Grad Inspire (spring) Co-created by Oregon State’s Inspiration Dissemination radio show, Grad Inspire explores ideas in action by bringing graduate students to the stage to share their story. Grad Appreciation Week (spring) A week-long celebration of graduate students' contribution to making Oregon State the best! All Events View calendar Contact Info Graduate School Heckart Lodge 2900 SW Jefferson Way Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-1102 Phone: 541-737-4881 Fax: 541-737-3313 Email Contact Us Instagram Twitter Facebook Login Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Links Programs - Majors, minors and certificates Admissions Academic Progress Funding Student Success Postdocs Faculty Support Staff Directory Forms Graduate Catalog