Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Award Opportunities » GSHI Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Graduate Student Health Insurance Award The Graduate School offers two types of health insurance awards. Award A applies in the fall semester and continues to apply to the spring semester health insurance costs if the student qualifies in the spring semester. Award B applies ONLY to spring semester health insurance costs. To qualify for these award funds, you must apply by their respective deadline and be in a UC assistantship or fellowship position that pays a minimum of $2,560 per term. If you receive a health insurance award in the 2022–23 academic year, a credit of $860 will be put towards your health insurance costs at the start of each semester you are eligible for the award. For Award A, this is $860 for Fall or $1,720 for the academic year (both fall and spring semesters). For Award B, this applies $860 to spring semester only. Health insurance coverage purchased for spring semester continues through the summer term for no additional cost. No award is provided for the summer semester. If you are awarded Award A, you are not permitted to be awarded Award B for double the award in spring. The maximum award is $1,720 per academic year. 2022–23 Application Information Award Amount for 2022–23 For the 2022–23 academic year, the Graduate School has been able to secure funding in order to provide a GSHI award of $860/semester (maximum award of $1,720 per academic year). Students Purchasing UC SHI Coverage for Dependent/Spouse For the 2021–22 academic year, students who purchased UC student health insurance (SHI) coverage for themselves and for a spouse/dependent(s) were charged the full cost of coverage for the academic year on their fall semester bill. For the 2022–23 academic year, students who are charged the full cost of coverage for the academic year on their fall semester bill will receive the maximum total of their award ($1,720) on their fall bill. Students who are billed on a semesterly basis will receive a maximum of $860/semester as applicable. Important Eligibility Information As of Fall 2020, only full-time students are eligible for this award. Students must be enrolled in at least 10 graduate credit hours in order for the award to disburse to their bill. If a student drops or withdraws from courses during the semester and falls below 10 graduate credit hours, the award will be removed from their student bill. The reason for 10 (rather than 12 or 15 or whatever the student’s program requires as a criteria of their tuition scholarship) is that for the purposes of billing, 10 credit hours is considered full-time status for graduate students. Audited courses do not count toward this minimum. At the end of each award semester, the university will re-confirm students’ eligibility to make sure that all other requirements have been met (see below for description requirements). Students who fail to maintain award eligibility will have their award removed. It is the student’s responsibility to check with the program that sponsors their graduate assistantship to make sure the pay dates for the minimum $2,560 in pay falls within the pay date ranges below. These date ranges will be used to pull information from UC payroll records to verify eligibility. Please direct any questions to gshi@uc.edu. Award A: For both Fall and Spring Semester Apply for GSHI Award A from June 27 to September 5, 2022. Timing Application Period: 6/27/22–9/5/22 Posting of awards: Starting on August 12, awards will be posted on a weekly basis. First Day of Classes: 8/22/22 September 2022, GSHI will check to make sure that the student has enrolled for SHI by the SHI enrollment deadline and if not, remove the award. December 2022, GSHI will check to make sure that the student met all of the requirements for the GSHI Award during the fall semester and if not, rescind the fall award. January 2023, GSHI will check to make sure that the student has enrolled for SHI by the SHI enrollment deadline and if not, remove the award. April 2023, GSHI will check to make sure that the student met all of the requirements for the GSHI Award during the spring semester and if not, rescind the spring award. Award Benefit $860/semester credit to Fall, or Fall and Spring Semester bills (maximum award of $1,720 for the academic year). Award Criteria To receive this award, you must: 1. Be a Graduate Assistant (teaching, research or administrative) or Fellow, in the UC payroll system as a graduate assistant or fellow. 2. Be receiving stipend payments of a minimum $2,560 per semester through UC Payroll within the following pay dates: Fall Semester: 08/30/22–12/31/2022 (9 pay periods) AND (only if spring award is also desired) Spring Semester: 01/01/23–04/28/23 (9 pay periods) GAs who are awarded a 15 week appointment, rather than a 16 week appointment, must receive a minimum of $2,400 per semester. Payroll checks from UC for grad students with a payroll status of student worker, compensated hourly, do NOT count toward the $2,560 requirement. Payment must be made from UC Payroll (refunds from the Bursar are not considered payments). Co-op students paid by a company other than UC during either of these semesters (fall or spring) will not have their pay from their co-op company counted toward the $2,560 semester pay requirement. Graduate students who receive a fellowship stipend directly from an outside/third-party sponsor are required to send a copy of the award letter and/or official documentation that clearly states the award period and financial terms of the fellowship (e.g., stipend amount, tuition scholarship amount, living allowance, etc.) to GSHI@uc.edu OR via mail: GSHI University of Cincinnati PO Box 210635 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0635 OR via UC Mail to ML 0635 Each outside/third-party sponsor must be a U.S. based foundation which requires matching funds or be a U.S. based federal or state institution which supports research or teaching missions like Fulbright, Krell, etc. 3. Maintain university student health insurance coverage throughout the qualifying award term. For more information about enrollment, contact the Student Health Insurance Office. 4. Enroll for at least 10 graduate credit hours in each qualifying award semester. Audited courses do not count toward this minimum. If a student does not meet all eligibility requirements throughout the qualifying award term, then he or she will forfeit the Graduate Student Health Insurance Award for that semester. This will result in the full amount of the award being removed from the student’s UC account. If a graduate student waives the university health insurance, he/she will not be eligible for any GSHI Award. Award B (ONLY for Spring Semester) If you have already received Award A (which covers fall and spring semester), DO NOT apply for Award B. If you have already been awarded Award A, you are NOT permitted to be awarded Award B for double the award in spring. The GSHI Award B application will be open from November 15, 2022 to January 23, 2023. Timing Application Period: 11/15/22–01/23/23. Awards Posted: starting in January, awards will be posted on a weekly basis. First day of classes: 01/9/23 Late January 2023, GSHI will check to make sure that the student has enrolled for SHI by the SHI enrollment deadline and if not, remove the award. April 2023, GSHI will check to make sure that the student met all of the requirements for the GSHI Award during the spring semester and if not, rescind the spring award. Award Benefit $860 credit to Spring Semester bill. Award Criteria To receive this award, you must: 1. Be a Graduate Assistant (teaching, research or administrative) or Fellow, in the UC payroll system as a graduate assistant or fellow. 2. Be receiving stipend payments of a minimum $2,560 through UC Payroll within the following pay dates: Spring Semester: 01/01/23–04/28/23 (9 pay periods) GAs who are awarded a 15 week appointment, rather than a 16 week appointment, must receive a minimum of $2,400 per semester. Payroll checks from UC for grad students with a payroll status of student worker, compensated hourly, do NOT count toward the $2,560 requirement. Payment must be made from UC Payroll (refunds from the Bursar are not considered payments). Co-op students paid by a company other than UC during spring semester will not have their pay from their co-op company counted toward the $2,560 semester pay requirement. Graduate students who receive a fellowship stipend directly from an outside/third-party sponsor are required to send a copy of the award letter and/or official documentation that clearly states the award period and financial terms of the fellowship (e.g., stipend amount, tuition scholarship amount, living allowance, etc.) to GSHI@uc.edu OR via mail: GSHI University of Cincinnati PO Box 210635 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0635 OR via UC Mail to ML 0635 Each outside/third-party sponsor must be a U.S. based foundation which requires matching funds or be a U.S. based federal or state institution which supports research or teaching missions like Fulbright, Krell, etc. 3. Maintain university student health insurance coverage during the spring semester. For more information about enrollment, contact the Student Health Insurance Office. 4. Enroll for at least 10 graduate credit hours in spring semester. Audited courses do not count toward this minimum. If a student does not meet all eligibility requirements throughout spring semester, then he or she will forfeit the Graduate Student Health Insurance Award for spring semester. This will result in the full amount of the award being removed from the student’s UC account. If a graduate student waives the university health insurance for spring semester, he/she will not be eligible for the GSHI Award B. Please direct any questions to gshi@uc.edu. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top