Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Fields of Study Industrial and Labor Relations Field Description Cornell offers four graduate-degree programs in the field of Industrial and Labor Relations (ILR): The M.P.S. (Master of Professional Studies); M.S., and Ph.D.; and the M.I.L.R. (Master of Industrial and Labor Relations). The M.I.L.R. Choose one of the following areas of concentration: human resources and organizations; collective representation; dispute resolution; labor-market policy; or international and comparative labor. Students complete a minimum of 48 credits in courses and seminars, including required courses in collective bargaining, organizational behavior, labor economics, labor and employment law, human resource management, and statistics. Candidates with a law or M.B.A. degree from a U.S. institution may be able to obtain M.I.L.R. degree in two semesters. Students interested in careers in business administration may apply for a five-semester, dual-degree program at the School of Industrial and Labor Relations (M.I.L.R.) and the Johnson Graduate School of Management (M.B.A.). The M.P.S. This degree is limited to individuals with professionally related work experience who wish to update their knowledge of current practices. Applicants for this degree are typically sponsored by their governments or organizations. Degree requirements include course work, an MPS project paper and a two-year commitment. Students may choose to study part-time in New York City in the M.P.S. (I.L.R.) New York program, or full time in residence on the Ithaca campus. M.S. and Ph.D. Candidates select major and minor subjects from the following areas: collective bargaining, labor law, and labor history; organizational behavior; human resource studies; international and comparative labor. One minor is selected from outside the ILR Field of Study. Minors Labor Economics and Economic & Social Statistics are offered as minors only. Minor subjects in fields outside ILR are encouraged. Each candidates program is supervised by a committee of faculty members chosen by the candidate. The average M.S. program requires two years; the doctoral program typically takes an additional three years. Contact Information Website: http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/graddegreeprograms/ Email: ilrgradapplicant@cornell.edu Phone: 607 255-1522 218 Ives Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Data and Statistics Doctoral Program Statistics Research Master's Program Statistics Professional Master's Program Statistics Subject and Degrees Human Resources (Online) Human Resources (Online) (M.P.S.) (Ithaca) Industrial and Labor Relations Industrial and Labor Relations (M.I.L.R.) (Ithaca) Industrial and Labor Relations (M.I.L.R./M.B.A. (dual degree)) (Ithaca) Industrial and Labor Relations (M.P.S.) (Cornell ILR NYC) Industrial and Labor Relations (M.S.) (Ithaca) Industrial and Labor Relations (M.S./Ph.D.) (Ithaca) Industrial and Labor Relations (Ph.D.) (Ithaca) Concentrations by Subject Human Resources (Online) human resource management labor relations, economics, and organizational behavior Industrial and Labor Relations collective representation (M.I.L.R. only) dispute resolution (M.I.L.R. only) human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only) human resources and organizations (M.I.L.R. only) international and comparative labor labor economics (minor) labor market policy (M.I.L.R. only) labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) social statistics (minor) Faculty Ariel C. Avgar Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: labor relations, law and history Rosemary Batt Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); international and comparative labor Research Interests: human resource studies; international and comparative labor Bradford S Bell Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: human resource studies Michele Belot Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: Behavioral Economics, Labor Economics, Health Economics Sarah Besky Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Research uses ethnographic and historical methods to study the intersection of nature, labor and capitalism in South Asia Dina Bishara Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor Research Interests: Authoritarianism, social and protest movements, state-labor relations, and the mobilization of the unemployed Francine D Blau Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor economics Research Interests: labor economics; international and comparative labor Vanessa Kimberly Bohns Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: social influence; egocentrism; moral emotions; prosocial and antisocial behavior; interpersonal relations Brittany Bond Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Organizations, Labor Markets, Status, Evaluations, and Careers George R Boyer Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor economics Research Interests: labor economics; international and comparative labor Mary Diane Burton Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: human resources Christopher J Collins Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: organizational behavior; human resources studies Alexander J. Colvin Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: collective representation (M.I.L.R. only); dispute resolution (M.I.L.R. only); international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor history; labor law Paul Davis Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); human resources and organizations (M.I.L.R. only) Ileen A Devault Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor law; labor history; international and comparative labor Thomas J Diciccio Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: economics and social statistics Virginia L Doellgast Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor Research Interests: international and comparative labor Ronald Gordon Ehrenberg Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: labor economics Sean Fath Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Social perception and inequality in organizations and society Gary Sheldon Fields Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor economics Research Interests: international and comparative labor; labor economics Elias Friedman Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor Research Interests: international and comparative labor Shannon Marie Gleeson Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: low-wage workers, the role of immigrant documentation status, and legal mobilization; immigrant civic engagement and the bureaucratic processes of labor standards enforcement. Michael Evan Gold Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: dispute resolution (M.I.L.R. only); labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor law; labor history; dispute resolution Kate Griffith Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: James A Gross Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: dispute resolution (M.I.L.R. only); international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor law; labor history; dispute resolution; international and comparative labor John P. Hausknecht Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); human resources and organizations (M.I.L.R. only) Research Interests: human resources; motivation; organizations; staffing and selection; employee retention Robert Morris Hutchens Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: labor economics Louis Hyman Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: labor relations, law, and history Tristan Ivory Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor George Hersch Jakubson Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: labor economics Lawrence M Kahn Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor economics; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: labor economics; collective bargaining; labor law; labor history; international and comparative labor Harry Charles Katz Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: dispute resolution (M.I.L.R. only); international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor law; labor history; international and comparative labor; dispute resolution Rebecca Kehoe Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Star performers, alignment of HR systems and business strategy, and process-based perspectives of HR system design and implementation. JR Keller Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); human resources and organizations (M.I.L.R. only) Philipp Kircher Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: Consequences of search frictions in labor markets, in particular regarding wage setting and assignment of workers to jobs. Sarosh C Kuruvilla Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: dispute resolution (M.I.L.R. only); international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor law; labor history; international and comparative labor, dispute resolution Desiree LeClercq Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: international and comparative labor; labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Relationship between international labor rights and broader international governance Alice Lee Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Social influence, negotiations and conflict management, power and status, cross-cultural dynamics Risa L Lieberwitz Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: collective bargaining; labor law; labor history Adam Seth Litwin Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: employee relations; health care industry; high performance work systems; industrial relations systems; labor and society; labor relations; unions; technology and work Brian Lucas Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Veronica Martinez-Matsuda Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: affirmative action;comparative labor movements;community problem solving;discrimination;diversity and inclusion;gender and families;immigration and the labor force;labor history;labor rights;organizing;rights of working people;wage differentials John E. McCarthy Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Courtney McCluney Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Diversity, equity and inclusion in organizations Tejasvi Nagaraja Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: How labor and working-class history intersects with African American and foreign relations history Lisa H. Nishii Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); international and comparative labor Research Interests: human resource studies; international and comparative labor Tae Youn Park Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Employment relationship;Compensation and rewards;Turnover and retention Devon Proudfoot Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Human Resources (Online): human resource management; Industrial and Labor Relations: human resource studies (M.S./Ph.D. only); human resources and organizations (M.I.L.R. only) Research Interests: stereotyping and inequality, creativity evaluation, motivational underpinnings of organizational attitudes and behaviors Evan Riehl Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: Economic development; Economics of higher education; labor economics Benjamin A Rissing Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Seth Sanders Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: Labor economics and econometrics with a specialization in population research Wesley D. Sine Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: organizational behavior Robert Stewart Smith Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor economics Research Interests: labor economics Pamela S. Tolbert Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: organizational behavior Martin Timothy Wells Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: social statistics Research Interests: economic and social statistics Eleanor Wilking Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: Tax law, employment law, and policy Duanyi Yang Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: labor relations, law, and history (M.S./Ph.D. only) Research Interests: How organizational human resource management policies operate within different institutional contexts and in the face of globalization, migration, and demographic shifts Emily Zitek Campus: Ithaca Concentrations: Industrial and Labor Relations: human resources and organizations (M.I.L.R. only); organizational behavior (M.S./Ph.D. only) Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Narrow Your Search Return to Field of Study listing Search Phrase Go Filter by faculty Filter by program Campus Cornell ILR NYC Cornell NYC Tech Distance Learning Geneva Ithaca Degrees Doctorate Professional Masters Research Masters Disciplines Arts and Humanities Life Sciences Physical Sciences and Engineering Social Sciences Clear Filters Table of Contents Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022