Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Admissions Visit Us Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science welcomes prospective students to visit us virtually. Appointments Prospective applicants can schedule a virtual or telephone appointment with an admissions representative from the Office of Graduate Admissions. To arrange an appointment, please send an e-mail request to [email protected]. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, we will be unable to meet with visitors in-person during the Fall 2020 semester. For More Information, please contact the Office of Graduate Admissions at (212) 854-3543 or (212) 854-4688, or by e-mail. Campus Tours We are excited to offer virtual campus tours for students interested in applying to a Master's or Doctoral program at Columbia Engineering. Request More Information To receive information about Columbia Engineering graduate programs of study and updates about applying for admission complete our prospective student form. Contact Us Office of Graduate Student Affairs Columbia University The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science 500 West 120th St., Rm. 1220 S.W. Mudd, MC 4708 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-3543 (Admissions) Phone 212-854-4688 (Admissions) Fax: 212-854-5900 Questions: [email protected] Follow Us! Connect with us on social media to see what's happening on-campus and learn more about our office. Facebook Instagram Twitter Columbia University Visitors Center In light of evolving information about COVID-19 and out of an abundance of caution, the Columbia University Visitors Center will be closed until further notice. We are taking this temporary action to ensure the safety and well-being of our entire Columbia community and campus visitors. Visit Virtual Tour With Columbia's virtual tour, you can enjoy 360° panoramic views of Columbia’s beautiful Morningside Heights campus from the convenience of your own computer or mobile device. This interactive online walking tour includes stops inside iconic locations such as Butler Library and Low Rotunda, as well as our residence halls, academic spaces and dining facilities. Tour Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University