Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : How to Apply Change of Graduate Major Change of Graduate Major Graduate students at The University of Texas at Austin who wish to change majors must apply to do so. (Interested in law school? That’s a separate application process.) Complete the Application To request a change of major, please complete the appropriate application for admission. Business: Those who wish to pursue the Texas McCombs MBA, Masters in Professional Accounting, Masters in Finance, Masters in Business Analytics, Masters in Technology Commercialization, Masters in Health Care Transformation, Masters in Information Technology and Management, or a Masters in Marketing should visit the program site for application instructions. Engineering: Applicants to the Cockrell School of Engineering should visit the program site for information about applying. Social Work: Applicants to Social Work should visit the program site for application information. Executive Master in Public Leadership: Applicants to the Executive Master in Public Leadership program should visit the program site for application information Other Programs: Applicants to all other graduate programs (except the School of Law) should start the application process by submitting the ApplyTexas application. Because you are a former student of UT Austin, you should complete the U.S. Graduate Application even if you are a non-U.S. citizen or non-permanent resident of the United States. Pay the Application Fee Students submitting an application to transfer from a program in the Graduate School to one in the Graduate School of Business (or vice versa) must pay the regular application fee. If you are changing majors within the Graduate School or within the Graduate School of Business and have not been enrolled in that school for one long semester or more, a readmission application fee of $65 is required. An application fee is not required for currently enrolled students changing majors within the school where they are currently enrolled (the Graduate School or the Graduate School of Business). If you are currently enrolled and you are asked to pay the application fee, do not make a payment. Please indicate that you will pay outside the application system and do not make a payment through What I Owe or UT Direct. If you inadvertently pay the application fee, we will be unable to process a refund. Submit Official Transcripts If you have been enrolled for at least one long semester, you will be billed the $20 fee for your UT Austin transcript. The bill will be posted to your MyStatus page within 72 hours of submission. Do not request an official paper transcript from the Office of the Registrar directly. We will be unable to use that document in the processing of your application and you will still be billed the $20 transcript fee via your MyStatus. You do not need to furnish transcripts from other institutions if the work has already been posted to your permanent university record unless you entered the university prior to 1974. If, however, you have attended another senior college or university since you were last enrolled at the university, you must provide an official transcript for evaluation in addition to the transcripts on file. Non-UT Austin transcripts should be uploaded via the Document Upload System. Complete guidelines for uploading transcripts are available in Instructions for Uploading Transcripts, a downloadable guide. Submit Test Scores Consult the graduate program to which you are applying to see if there are any departmental test score requirements you must meet. If you have previously received a waiver of the GRE/GMAT requirement but are applying to transfer to a program that requires the GRE or GMAT, you will be required to submit an official test score. Complete Departmental Requirements All programs have additional requirements that you must complete before they will consider your application for change of major. Check with the program to which you are applying prior to submitting the application form for instructions on what additional supporting documents will be required. Most will allow you to upload additional required materials such as a resume/CV or statement of purpose via MyStatus. If the program to which you are applying requests recommendation letters, you will need to enter your recommenders information as you fill out the application form (you can monitor the status of the requests here. If the program to which you are applying does not want you to submit recommendation letters, please leave the recommender section of the application form blank. Quick Links Applying for Readmission Table of Contents Complete the Application Pay the Application Fee Submit Official Transcripts Submit Test Scores Complete Departmental Requirements Change of Major Application Deadlines Deadlines are set by the individual program; check the program's website for more information. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022