Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement Statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement June 30, 2020 In 1921, Tulsa’s thriving Black community, known as Black Wall Street, was destroyed as a result of hate, jealously and racism. The Tulsa Race Massacre is “still the deadliest and most destructive act of racial violence and domestic terrorism in United States history,” according to the Greenwood Cultural Center. Why has it taken us almost 100 years to fully recognize this tragedy? Why, in 2020, are Black Americans being killed for existing? It would be ignorant of us to think that the murders of black and brown bodies have nothing to do with racist systems of oppression, unjust social structures and individual racial bias. We must acknowledge that as a society we have failed to give Black citizens equal access to basic freedoms and privileges afforded to many white Americans without fear of being labeled as a threat – or much worse. Audre Lorde, a distinguished scholar, states in Sister Outsider: Essays and Speeches, “Guilt is not a response to anger; it is a response to one’s own actions or lack of action. If it leads to change then it can be useful, since it is then no longer guilt but the beginning of knowledge. Yet all too often, guilt is just another name for impotence, for defensiveness destructive of communication; it becomes a device to protect ignorance and the continuation of things the way they are, the ultimate protection for changelessness.” Although we are still in the midst of a global pandemic, we cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. This is not a time to be silent or timid in our response, but we must move forward with understanding, compassion and intention. We must recognize our own contributions to institutionalized racist structures and identify action steps to stop the cycle of supremacist ideology and discrimination. Our community came together to respond to COVID-19, and we should demonstrate that same fortitude, care and concern as we stand together and support our Black students, faculty and staff. We have an obligation to create a campus culture where all can thrive and feel supported; especially in times of need. University leadership has spoken out about the recent murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor and taken a strong public stand against systemic racism. TU is committed to taking action and leading by example as we examine our painful past and build a better future. Many are experiencing varying degrees of grief, outrage and uncertainty. If you would like support or need someone to talk to, please contact TU’s Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) at 918-631-2200 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. If you need support outside of normal business hours, please call Campus Security at 918-631-5555 and a staff member will connect you to a counselor immediately. CAPS’ trained professionals provide assistance to individuals from various identities and backgrounds, including traditionally marginalized groups. If you are looking for ways to support others, please consider the following resources: Donate to Black Lives Matter Donate and learn about Tulsa’s Greenwood Cultural Center Support Campaign Zero Support the National Police Accountability Project Sign a petition: Justice for Breonna Taylor Color of Change If you would like additional educational resources or information on how to support local Black-owned businesses, please contact TU’s Office of Diversity and Engagement at 918-631-2713. As a community, we have to hold each other accountable to teach the history we were never taught, engage in hard conversations and actively challenge acts of racism, prejudice and injustice. We have a responsibility to be a leader in providing opportunities and resources to build a community, on-campus and in our city, where Black Lives Matter. In this way, we will honor the lives lost during the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre and engage in the lifelong commitment to advocate for a just, humane and equitable society. Arts & Sciences, Arts and Sciences, Business, Diversity, Engineering and Natural Sciences, Featured, Health Sciences, Law School, News, Stories 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT