Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Plasma Physics Academic Year: 2021-22 Department or Program: Astrophysical Sciences Address: Forrestal Campus Phone: 609-243-2678 Website: Program in Plasma Physics Program offerings: Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies Nathaniel Fisch Graduate Program Administrator Dara Lewis Overview Plasmas, the fourth state of matter, are collections of freely moving charged particles (mainly electrons and ions) in which collective phenomena, such as waves, dominate the system's behavior. Plasmas are essential to many high-technology applications. One example is fusion energy, for which the fuel is a high-temperature plasma. Low-temperature plasmas are used for a growing number of materials fabrication processes, including the formation of complex microscopic and nanoscopic patterns for microelectronic and micro-optical components, and the deposition of tribological, magnetic, optical, conducting, insulating, polymeric, and catalytic thin-films. Plasmas are also important for illumination, display technology, microwave generation, destruction of toxic wastes, lasers, spacecraft propulsion, astrophysics, and advanced-design accelerators for fundamental particle research. Applications of plasma science and technology meld several traditional scientific and engineering specialties. This program aims to provide strong interdisciplinary support and training for graduate students working in these areas. The scope of interest includes fundamental studies of the plasmas, their interaction with surfaces and surroundings, and the technologies associated with their applications. Academics and Research The faculty responsible for the teaching program hold positions within the Department of Astrophysical Sciences. Recognizable on the list of faculty are many names associated with classic textbooks or research papers in the field of plasma physics. Students can pursue research with the teaching faculty, associated faculty in other departments, or any of the nearly one hundred scientists at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL). The Program in Plasma Physics emphasizes both basic physics and applications. There are opportunities for research projects in the physics of the very hot plasmas necessary for controlled fusion and projects in solar, magnetospheric, and ionospheric physics, plasma processing, plasma devices, and nonneutral plasmas lasers, materials research, and other emerging areas of plasma physics. With the field of fusion energy entering an exciting phase of burning plasma and technological implementation, increasing attention is paid to the practical engineering issues that will allow fusion reactors to become economically competitive. Graduate students entering the Program in Plasma Physics spend the first two years in classroom study, acquiring a foundation in the many disciplines that make up plasma physics: classical and quantum mechanics, electricity and magnetism, fluid dynamics, hydrodynamics, atomic physics, applied mathematics, statistical mechanics, and kinetic theory. The curriculum is supplemented by courses offered in other departments of the University and by a student-oriented seminar series in which PPPL physicists share their expertise and graduate students present their research. In addition to formal classwork, first- and second-year graduate students work directly with the research staff, have full access to laboratory and computer facilities, and learn firsthand the job of a research physicist. First-year students typically assist in experimental research areas, and second-year students usually undertake a theoretical research project. Students must take and pass the Physics Department's preliminary examination typically during their first year of study and the program's general examination during their second year of study. After passing the general exam, students concentrate on the research and writing of a doctoral thesis. Applying Application Deadline: December 1, 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard Time Program Length: 5 years Application Fee: $75 Application Requirements: Statement of Academic Purpose Resume/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Required Tests English Language Tests GRE : General test optional/recommended; subject test in physics optional/recommended. Ph.D. Ph.D. Requirements: Courses: Students in the Program in Plasma Physics are not required to satisfy course requirements. Students are expected to take whatever courses they feel are necessary to prepare for the general examination or in accordance with research interests. In preparation for the preliminary examination in the Department of Physics, some students take graduate-level courses offered by the physics department in the fall. Pre-Generals Requirement(s): The Department of Physics Preliminary Examination All students must pass the preliminary examination given by the physics department. This exam is given over two days and contains material on mechanics, electricity and magnetism, quantum mechanics, and thermodynamics and statistical mechanics. Students typically take the exam in January of the first year, but a May examination is also offered. General Exam: Generals are taken in May of the second year and consist of: Two 4-hour written sessions One 30-60 minute oral session The professors on the examining committee for the oral session determine whether a student passes and advances to the thesis proposal stage. Students prepare for the general examination by forming review groups and taking graduate plasma physics courses in their first two years. Qualifying for the M.A.: The Master of Arts (M.A.) degree is normally an incidental degree on the way to full Ph.D. candidacy and is earned after successfully passing (a) the physics preliminary examination and (b) the written general examination. It may also be awarded to students who, for various reasons, leave the Ph.D. program, provided that these requirements have been met. Post-Generals Requirement(s): Thesis Proposal The thesis proposal takes place in the nine months following the successful completion of the general examination. A completed thesis proposal consists of a written proposal and a proposal presentation. The thesis committee notifies the student of the results of the thesis proposal immediately following the proposal presentation. Dissertation and FPO: The Ph.D. is awarded after the candidate’s doctoral dissertation has been accepted and the final public oral examination sustained. Faculty Director Nathaniel J. Fisch Director of Graduate Studies Nathaniel J. Fisch Associated Faculty Amitava Bhattacharjee, Astrophysical Sciences Edgar Y. Choueiri, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Samuel A. Cohen, PPPL Plasma Science and Techno Steven C. Cowley, PPPL Office of the Director Ilya Y. Dodin, PPPL Theory Philip C. Efthimion, PPPL Plasma Science and Techno William R. Fox, PPPL Plasma Science and Techno Robert J. Goldston, Astrophysical Sciences Gregory W. Hammett, PPPL Theory Hantao Ji, Astrophysical Sciences Matthew W. Kunz, Astrophysical Sciences Richard P. Majeski, PPPL Plasma Science and Techno David J. McComas, Vice President, PPL Julia Mikhailova, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Jong-Kyu Park, PPPL NSTX Stewart C. Prager, Astrophysical Sciences Hong Qin, PPPL Theory Yevgeny Raitses, PPPL Plasma Science and Techno Allan H. Reiman, PPPL Theory Szymon Suckewer, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng William M. Tang, PPPL Computational Science For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University