Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Computer Science Sc.M. school Graduate School department Computer Science Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Department of Computer Science's master's program is suitable both for those who wish to improve their professional competence in computer science and for those who seek to prepare for further graduate study. The Department of Computer Science's master's program is suitable both for those who wish to improve their professional competence in computer science and for those who seek to prepare for further graduate study. The program offers three different tracks (thesis, project and coursework only) that enable individuals to customize their studies to match their particular ambitions and experiences. Computer-science classes at Brown are taught by the same professors who have earned our department's reputation for innovative education and research. The department has expertise in a variety of areas of computer science, including algorithms and data structures, artificial intelligence, automated reasoning and planning, brain-machine interfaces, computational biology, computer security, cryptography, database management systems, distributed systems and ubiquitous computing, electronic commerce and agents, graphics and visualization, human-computer interaction, nanotechnology, natural language processing, networking, operating systems, operations research and constraint programming, programming languages, robotics and computer vision, software engineering, and stream processing. Additional Resources The Department of Computer Science provides leading-edge computing technology to all its students. Each Sc.M. student is provided with a desktop computer and desk in a departmental office. Students also have access to compute clusters. In addition, there are six research labs: the Algorithmics Lab, the Artificial Intelligence Lab, the Graphics Lab, the Internet Lab, the Motion Capture Lab, and the Systems Lab. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a degree from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a University in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition and the IELTS Indicator exam are accepted. Students from mainland China may submit the TOEFL ITP Plus exam The minimum TOEFL score is 105 and the minimum IELTS score is 8.0. Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) recommendations required for external applications. Fifth-year applicants must submit two (2) recommendations. Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: If you have any questions regarding the application process for this program, please email masters_admissions@brown.edu. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline February 1, 2022 5th Year Deadline May 1, 2022 Financial Aid Tuition: $9,168 per course; 8 courses over two years Scholarships: A small number of merit-based, full-tuition scholarships are available. All applicants are automatically considered. Completion Requirements B or better in eight courses in Computer Science or related areas. The student can either choose the thesis/project track, in which case two of the courses represent work towards completion of the thesis/project, or the coursework–only track, in which case two of the courses must comprise an approved specialization. There are also distribution requirements. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Ugur Cetintemel ugur_cetintemel@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Tom Doeppner thomas_doeppner_jr@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Computer Science Mailing Address Brown University Box 1910 cs-masters-info@brown.edu 401-863-7600 Visit the Department of Computer Science Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Computer Science Open details for Computer Science Bookmark this Page