Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Admissions Degrees & Fields Graduate Degrees Graduate Degrees The Graduate School offers research and professional degrees in nearly 100 fields of study, with opportunities for further exploration in 18 minor (non-degree granting) fields. Research Degrees The M.A. and M.S. degree programs are designed for those who wish to obtain further education in a selected field and to develop their ability for critical inquiry, independent research, and teaching. Ph.D. programs are designed for individuals who demonstrate the potential to perform original research under guidance, with a view to various careers, including those in research and teaching. See our fields of study search for more information on the degree programs we offer. M.S. (Master of Science) M.A. (Master of Arts) M.A./Ph.D. or M.S./Ph.D. (joint Master’s/Doctor of Philosophy) Ph.D. (Doctor of Philosophy) Research degrees with an original thesis or dissertation as part of the degree requirements. D.M.A. (Doctor of Musical Arts), typically 3 or more years J.S.D. (Doctor of Science of Law) M.F.A. (Master of Fine Arts), typically 2 years Art Creative Writing Professional Degrees Professional degrees prepare students to practice their profession at an advanced level, to teach the subject matter of their profession, or to pursue original investigations into its functions, administration, history, and progress. M.F.S. (Master of Food Science), 1 year M.H.A. (Master of Health Administration), 2 years (with 18-month online Executive M.H.A. option) M.I.L.R. (Master of Industrial and Labor Relations), 2 years M.L.A. (Master of Landscape Architecture), 3 years M.P.A. (Master of Public Administration), 2 years (with 18-month online Executive M.P.A. option) M.P.H (Master of Public Health), 1-2 years; part-time option M.P.S. (Master of Professional Studies), typically 1 year Agriculture and Life Sciences Animal Science Biological and Environmental Engineering Integrative Plant Science Global Development Landscape Architecture Natural Resources and the Environment Applied Economics and Management Applied Statistics Human Ecology Fiber Science & Apparel Design Industrial and Labor Relations Human Resources (Online) Industrial and Labor Relations (NYC) Information Science Real Estate Veterinary Medical Sciences, 12 months M.R.P. (Master of Regional Planning), 2 years Professional Degrees Administered Outside the Graduate School The following degrees are administered outside the Graduate School, but prospective students will use the Graduate School application. M.Arch. (Master of Architecture), College of Art, Architecture, and Planning, 3 ½ years M.Eng. (Master of Engineering), College of Engineering, typically 1 year M.M.H. (Master of Management in Hospitality), College of Business, 3 semesters M.P.S. Management (Master of Professional Studies), College of Business, typically 1 year M.S.L.S. (Master of Science in Legal Studies), Law School, 20 months, part-time Additional Professional Degrees The following degrees are offered by Cornell University, but not administered by the Graduate School. Students interested in these degrees should visit the following websites. College of Veterinary Medicine Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) Cornell Law School J.D. degree program Master of Laws (LL.M.) program Cornell Tech Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual Master of Science Degrees with a Concentration in Connective Media Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual Master of Science Degrees with a Concentration in Health Tech Jacobs Technion-Cornell Dual Master of Science Degrees with a Concentration in Urban Tech Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master of Engineering in Electrical Engineering Master of Engineering in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LL.M.) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship SC Johnson College of Business Two-Year MBA in Ithaca One-Year MBA in Ithaca Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Cornell Executive MBA Americas Cornell Executive MBA Metro New York Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Cornell-Tsinghua MBA/FMBA Dual Degrees Executive Education Weill Cornell Medicine Ph.D. Degrees Biochemistry & Structural Biology Cellular & Developmental Biology Molecular Biology Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology Master’s Degrees Health Sciences for the Physicians Assistants Clinical & Translational Investigations Clinical Epidemiology & Health Services Research Biostatistics and Data Science Health Informatics Health Policy and Economics Computational Biology & Medicine EMBA/Master’s Degrees Healthcare Leadership Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022