Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Interdisciplinary Humanities (IHUM) Academic Year: 2021-22 Address: Council of the Humanities, Scheide Caldwell House Phone: 609-258-4086 Website: Interdisciplinary Humanities (IHUM) Program offerings: Joint Degree Director of Graduate Studies Christy Wampole Graduate Program Administrator Barbara Leavey Overview IHUM confers a joint doctoral degree, with applications accepted in the third year of study from students enrolled in the Ph.D. programs in the following departments and schools: Anthropology, Architecture, Art and Archaeology, Classics, Comparative Literature, East Asian Studies, English, French and Italian, German, History, Music, Near Eastern Studies, Philosophy, Political Philosophy in Politics, Religion, Slavic Languages and Literatures, Sociology, and Spanish and Portuguese. Applicants from Anthropology and Sociology may apply in their second year of study. Students who join the program become core members of a community of interdisciplinary research and exchange that convenes for seminars, workshops, and other events. They receive an additional year of fellowship support for research and exploration in areas beyond the boundaries of their fundamental disciplinary training and graduate with a joint degree from their home department and from the Council of the Humanities. Students applying to IHUM must take the required course HUM583 before applying or once accepted into the program. The deadline for the next round of applications to IHUM is March 1, 2022. Applications should include a description of plans for dissertation research and a brief letter of support from a departmental adviser. For more details, see the program website. Students cannot be admitted to Princeton University through the IHUM Program. Joint Degree Joint Degree Requirements: Courses: Applicants to the program are recommended to take an IHUM program seminar in their first two years of coursework, and should, at all events, be able to show a record of interdisciplinary exploration. Prior to applying to IHUM, they should take the methods course HUM 583 “Disciplinarity and Anti-Disciplinarity,” offered each fall. This course is required for the joint degree. Students accepted into the program are expected to join in IHUM workshops, including a regular works-in-progress meeting for program members and faculty, a lunchtime series of talks, and other events - both as participants and organizers. Dissertation and FPO: Candidates for the joint degree must submit their dissertation for review by a member of the IHUM Executive and/or Program Committee. Dissertations should be submitted at the same time they are submitted to the department granting the first degree. Additional Requirements: Students are required to present a detailed plan for their IHUM fellowship year to the director of the program in the spring of the third year. They must fulfill all the requirements for the degree in their home departments. Faculty Director Christy N. Wampole Executive Committee Marshall B. Brown, Architecture Jeff Dolven, English Devin A. Fore, German Javier E. Guerrero, Spanish & Portuguese Brooke A. Holmes, Classics Erin Y. Huang, East Asian Studies Paize Keulemans, East Asian Studies Esther H. Schor, English, ex officio Christy N. Wampole, French & Italian Associated Faculty Zahid R. Chaudhary, English Anne Cheng, English Rachael Z. DeLue, Art and Archaeology Brigid Doherty, German Thomas W. Hare, Comparative Literature Wendy Heller, Music Thomas Y. Levin, German Federico Marcon, East Asian Studies Spyros Papapetros, Architecture Joe Scanlan, Lewis Center for the Arts Susan A. Stewart, English Janet A. Vertesi, Sociology For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Courses Permanent Courses Courses listed below are graduate-level courses that have been approved by the program’s faculty as well as the Curriculum Subcommittee of the Faculty Committee on the Graduate School as permanent course offerings. Permanent courses may be offered by the department or program on an ongoing basis, depending on curricular needs, scheduling requirements, and student interest. Not listed below are undergraduate courses and one-time-only graduate courses, which may be found for a specific term through the Registrar’s website. Also not listed are graduate-level independent reading and research courses, which may be approved by the Graduate School for individual students. ARC 594 Topics in Architecture (also MOD 504 / HUM 593 / ART 584 ) This course covers various topics related to the history and theory of architecture. ART 515 Decolonizing Art History (also HUM 515 / LAS 515 ) Art history's disciplinary origins are inextricable from European colonialism and imperialism, and often work to uphold racialized concepts of development, civilization, style. The contemporary practice of art history demands that we acknowledge these origins while imagining a decolonized art history for the present. Drawing from decolonial paradigms, recent scholarship, and foundational texts of critical race studies, we work to analyze and actively reconfigure conventions of field formation, research, and format. In keeping with the political imperative of praxis, students workshop research topics and problems individually and collectively. ENG 572 Introduction to Critical Theory (also COM 590 / HUM 572 ) The ethical, historical, and political dimensions of Jacques Derrida's thought and writings. FRE 524 20th-Century French Narrative Prose (also HUM 524 ) Development of the French novel and short story. Particular emphasis is given to Proust, Gide, Malraux, Sartre, Camus, Butor, and Robbe-Grillet. Topics such as the roman fleuve, the poetic novel, the anti-novel, and the nouveau roman are also considered. GER 523 Topics in German Media Theory & History (also MUS 530 / MOD 524 / HUM 523 ) Historical and theoretical investigations of media from the advent of writing systems, paper and the construction of single-point perspective to phonography, radio, telephony, and television and up through the critical reflection on cyberspace, rhetorics of PowerPoint, surveillance and data shadows. Issues explored include the relationship between representation and technology, the historicity of perception, transformations of reigning notions of imagination, literacy, communication, reality and truth, and the interplay of aesthetics, technics and politics. HUM 583 Interdisciplinarity and Antidisciplinarity Academic life is largely configured along disciplinary lines. What are "disciplines," and what does it mean to think, write, teach, and work within these socio-cognitive structures? Are there alternatives? This course, drawing on faculty associated with the Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in the Humanities (IHUM), takes up these questions, in an effort to clarify the historical evolution and current configuration of intellectual activity within universities. Normative questions detain us. The future is a preoccupation for the course. HUM 595 Interdisciplinary Studies in the Humanities (also ENG 594 / CLA 595 / HLS 595 ) In the IHUM tradition, this course is team-taught, often by faculty from two different departments. Courses that fall under this topic are widely cross-listed and intended to attract students from many departments and programs. These topics are the most interdisciplinary of the IHUM offerings, aiming to bring together combinations of art, philosophy, literature, history in theory and practice, criticism, and methods from the qualitative social sciences. HUM 596 Humanistic Perspectives on Literature (also EAS 537 / CLA 596 / HLS 596 ) Marking the 10th anniversary of Derrida's death, this course provides an opportunity to "unpack" Derrida's library, to remember several of his lessons - about philosophy, literature, history, politics, religion, economics, ideology, law, rights, nationalism, racism, colonialism, the media, university institutions, capitalism, rogue states, the war on terror, justice, responsibility, language, friendship, love, life, death, and mourning - all of which are more urgent and necessary than ever before. HUM 597 Humanistic Perspectives on History and Society (also ARC 597 / LAS 597 / SPA 557 / MOD 597 ) In this seminar we locate Spinoza and the Tractatus Theologico-Politicus (1670) in the exciting currents of seventeenth-century philosophy, theology, biblical scholarship and exegesis. Resituating Spinoza in Golden Age Holland we examine the resources and relevant controversies that shaped the Tractatus, with an eye to common concerns and traditions: the legacies of humanism and Reformation in the Netherlands, for instance, the larger worlds of his friends, as well as the vibrant Jewish community in Golden Age Amsterdam and the varieties of Christian lay piety that fall broadly under the banner of "the Radical Reformation." HUM 598 Humanistic Perspectives on the Arts (also CLA 593 / MOD 598 / HLS 597 / ART 596 ) The study of the arts at the intersection of the disciplines. HUM 599 Interpretation (also ANT 599 / COM 599 ) The arts of interpretation across the disciplines. SPA 562 The Cinema of Cruelty (also LAS 542 / HUM 562 ) Drawing on Antonin Artaud's ideas around theatre of cruelty and André Bazin's notions of auteur film and its subversive capacity, this course looks at a group of Latin American and Spanish films and directors to explore how cruelty has become a recognizable aesthetic, one with strategic relevance for Hispanic film. This seminar understands film as a text in which cruelty functions as a cinematic trope, and also reflects on spectatorship, film's ability to inflict pain and, even more, the possibility that film constitutes a modern spectacle of cruelty. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University