Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Anthropology Academic Year: 2021-22 Department or Program: Anthropology Address: Aaron Burr Hall Phone: 609-258-4537 Website: Department of Anthropology Program offerings: Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies Carolyn Rouse Graduate Program Administrator Carol Zanca Overview The Department of Anthropology prepares students for knowledgeable teaching and significant original research in sociocultural anthropology, also enabling them to bring anthropological concepts, findings, and approaches to bear on cross-disciplinary scholarship, public understanding, and public policy. The Doctor of Philosophy in anthropology is the final degree in the graduate program. Applying Application Deadline: December 15, 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard Time Program Length: 5 years Application Fee: $75 Application Requirements: Statement of Academic Purpose Resume/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Required Tests English Language Tests GRE : General Test not accepted Additional Departmental Requirements: Sample of written work 25 double spaced pages maximum. Entering students are very strongly advised to have prior training in sociocultural anthropology (that is, a master’s degree and/or undergraduate coursework, although this need not be a full undergraduate major). Optional: Applicants may submit a statement with their application, briefly describing how their academic interests, background, or life experiences would advance Princeton’s commitment to diversity within the Graduate School and to training individuals in an increasingly diverse society. Please submit a succinct statement of no more than 500 words. Ph.D. Ph.D. Requirements: Courses: The Ph.D. in Anthropology involves two academic years (four semesters) of coursework prior to the Ph.D. qualifying examination, dissertation field research, and the writing of a dissertation. First-year plans of study require enrollment in the two semester Proseminar (ANT 501-502): a sequence taught by two instructors that covers both classic and contemporary texts and topics. First-year students are also required to enroll in the Coseminar (ANT 503a/b), a fall semester sequence of two half-term courses whose instructors change each year and whose themes are anchored in the instructors' recent research. Like first-year students, second-year students are required to enroll in the Coseminar. First- and second-year students are all required to enroll in the department's field practicum (ANT 505), which is offered every other year in the spring. Overall, first- and second-year students take a minimum of three graded seminar courses per semester: at least two within the department (required and/or elective) and one elective course that may be taken within or outside the department. Many of the department's elective courses are organized as half-semester seminars so as to expose students to a wider array of themes and faculty. Assigned work for all courses must be completed by the end of the spring semester for students to be eligible for summer funding. (Announcements concerning University summer funding opportunities are generally made in January; most anthropology students do language training and/or pre-dissertation exploratory research and other preparatory work during their first two summers.) Language(s): Students are required to demonstrate competence in one scholarly language besides English. Students are urged to fulfill the scholarly language requirement early in the fall of their first year of study (satisfaction of this language requirement is a prerequisite for the second-year General Examination). Pre-Generals Requirement(s): In September of their first year, each student is assigned a first-year mentor. In consultation with the director of graduate studies (DGS), the student works out a plan of study that is reviewed at least twice that year. During the second year, each student convenes a committee of two advisory "co-chairs" from among departmental faculty, with whom the student works in preparation for the second-year General Examination; additionally, a third faculty member may either be recruited by the student or assigned by the DGS specifically to evaluate the written and oral components of the examination. The First-Year Examination, taken in May, is a comprehensive assessment of students' grasp of the foundations of social/cultural anthropology, organized around, but not limited to, readings in the Proseminar (ANT 501-502). General Exam: Along with strong completion of first- and second-year departmental courses and passing the First-Year Examination, the General Examination is a key prerequisite qualifying students for continued Ph.D. degree candidacy. The written component consists of two or three essays and bibliographies relating to theoretical/topical and area scholarship developed by students in consultation with their committees. The first essay together with its bibliography is due one week after the end of second-year spring-term classes; the remaining essays and bibliographies being due by the end of that summer. Essays are limited to 12,000-18,000 words in all (i.e., three 4000-6000 word essays or two 6000-9000 word essays). Before the summer recess, students receive comments from their committees based on the first essay to use as guidance toward completing their Generals writing. The oral component of the General Examination (held during the first month of the fall semester) involves a discussion of the written essays among the student and student's Generals committee. Completion of all coursework from previous semesters and completion of the language requirement are prerequisites for Generals. Qualifying for the M.A.: The Master of Arts (M.A.) degree is normally an incidental degree on the way to full Ph.D. candidacy and is earned after successfully passing all parts of the General Examination. It may also be awarded to students who, for various reasons, leave the Ph.D. program, provided that the following requirements are met: successful completion of all coursework through the first two years of study, and completion of the language requirement. Teaching: All graduate students are expected to assist in teaching at least one undergraduate course any time during their residence at Princeton after completing the first-year program. Teaching is considered to be an important part of graduate education; however, teaching is not a requirement of Graduate School fellowship support. Post-Generals Requirement(s): Each student is required to make a formal presentation of their proposal for dissertation fieldwork (doctoral research). The proposal is first submitted in writing to the student's advisory committee for assessment; after approval, it is presented orally for discussion to graduate program faculty and students. The department proposal presentations are generally completed no later than early in the spring term of the third year and are usually based on the student's external dissertation research grant applications. While many students can accomplish dissertation fieldwork using their University fellowship, the department strongly encourages students to apply for external funding for several reasons: as an important professionalizing experience; as a means for gaining the time and flexibility that sociocultural anthropologists often need to meet fieldwork's travel and language fluency demands; and finally, because doing so typically enables students to “bank” one year of University fellowship support for later use during post-fieldwork analysis and writing, subject to the financial policies of the Graduate School. Dissertation and FPO: Students who have passed the General Examination are eligible to submit a dissertation based on original research. This research is supervised by the student's advisory committee co-chairs (designated as dissertation “readers”). Departmental acceptance of the dissertation (achieved once the student's two dissertation readers have both approved a revised draft) qualifies the candidate for the final public oral (FPO) examination. This examination is based on the dissertation but extends beyond it to matters of the discipline as a whole, and confirms the candidate’s readiness for a career in the profession. The FPO may be held anytime during the academic year, based on a departmental request to the Graduate School one month prior to the proposed examination date. Two additional faculty are appointed (in consultation with the student) as dissertation "examiners" for FPO purposes. Subject to approval by the department and the Graduate School, one of these may be a relevant specialist of the student's choosing from outside Princeton. There are at least three principal examiners, all of them normally members of the Princeton faculty at the rank of assistant professor or higher, at least two of whom have not been principal readers of the dissertation. At least one of the examiners must be from the student's home department. The student and the examiners should be present in person. In no case may there be fewer than two examiners who participate in person, so as to respond to the student's presentation, comment on the dissertation text, and pose questions. In order to defend in May of any year, a candidate must submit a complete dissertation draft by February 1 to each of their two main advisers (i.e., to both dissertation "readers"). Faculty Chair Carolyn M. Rouse Director of Graduate Studies Carolyn M. Rouse Director of Undergraduate Studies Julia Elyachar Professor João Biehl John W. Borneman Agustin Fuentes Rena S. Lederman Serguei A. Oushakine Laurence Ralph Carolyn M. Rouse Associate Professor Elizabeth A. Davis Julia Elyachar Assistant Professor Hanna Garth Ryo Morimoto Lauren Coyle Rosen Jerry C. Zee Associated Faculty Amy B. Borovoy, East Asian Studies Lecturer Mark Drury Onur Gunay Jeffrey D. Himpele Visiting Professor Didier Fassin For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Courses Permanent Courses Courses listed below are graduate-level courses that have been approved by the program’s faculty as well as the Curriculum Subcommittee of the Faculty Committee on the Graduate School as permanent course offerings. Permanent courses may be offered by the department or program on an ongoing basis, depending on curricular needs, scheduling requirements, and student interest. Not listed below are undergraduate courses and one-time-only graduate courses, which may be found for a specific term through the Registrar’s website. Also not listed are graduate-level independent reading and research courses, which may be approved by the Graduate School for individual students. ANT 501 Proseminar in Anthropology A two-term survey of major anthropological writings, primarily for first-year graduate students. ANT 502 Proseminar in Anthropology A two-term survey of major anthropological writings, primarily for first-year graduate students. ANT 503A Co-seminar in Anthropology (Half-Term) What theoretical approaches are available to ethnographers for making sense of race and inequality? This class places Critical Race Theory in conversation with foundational anthropological theories of race and ethnicity. Students in this course explore the usefulness of contemporary legal theory, structuralism, pragmatism, Marxian analysis, and interpretivism for understanding and writing about race and difference. ANT 503B Co-seminar in Anthropology (Half-Term) In this course, we situate economic anthropology as a subfield of anthropology in the context of developments in political economy, social theory, and anthropology writ large. We read: classic works that reveal the rationality of 'primitive' society, attempts to use economic theory to analyze 'primitive' economies, the formalist-substantivist debate with Karl Polanyi at the center, as well as approaches to economic anthropology from the 1970s and onward (structuralist Marxist economic anthropology, feminist economic anthropology, and new approaches to markets after Latour). ANT 504A Advanced Topics in Anthropology (Half-Term) The course offers an in-depth examination of a wide array of subfields and topical specialties in anthropology. The topics give exposure to advanced theories, with professors that are leader experts in their areas. ANT 504B Advanced Topics in Anthropology (Half-Term) The course offers an in-depth examination of a wide array of subfields and topical specialties in anthropology. The topics give exposure to advanced theories, with professors that are leader experts in their areas. ANT 505 Field Research Practicum This seminar alternates reading discussions and workshopping to explore the ethics, politics, and practice of ethnographic fieldwork. It considers questions about evidence, research spaces (e.g., "the field"), researchers' relations with diverse interlocutors, and 'method' itself. Students' local field projects are bases for workshop meetings on participant observation, the interview/conversation distinction, and record-keeping, as well as for critical reflection on credibility claims, scale, subject position, representation/reception, improvisation and collaboration in ethnographic practice in anthropology and neighboring disciplines. ANT 521 Topics in Theory and Practice of Anthropology A selected topic in anthropology is studied, the particular choice varies from year to year. ANT 521A Topics in Theory & Practice (Half-Term) Theories of the intersubjective developed in modern clinical psychoanalysis are brought to bear on interlocution-based ethnographic field research. How do key concepts such as object relations, transference and countertransference, and the intersubjective third help us understand how insight is produced in the relation of ethnographers to their interlocuters, and how does the experience of fieldwork itself lead to certain knowledge claims? This course concentrates on insights from the different psychoanalytic schools that have followed Freud's original work. ANT 521B Topics in Theory & Practice (Half-Term) This course extends the work of ANT 521a by focusing on collective or group rather than individual processes of meaning making. The course considers some key pschoanalytic contributions to understanding contemporary processes of group formation and dissolution. It focuses on changing relations to thinking, to objects, to new media, and to ideology in the constructed human environment. In contrast to 521a, where the focus is on intersubjectivity in self formation, this course relates insights of intrapsychic and interpersonal to groups beyond/outside the family and kin, to collective forms of belonging. ANT 522 Topics in Theory and Practice of Anthropology A selected topic in anthropology is studied; the particular choice varies from year to year. ANT 522A Topics in Theory and Practice of Anthropology (Half-Term) A brief introduction the anthropology of language, focusing on examples from law and politics. Course begins with basic methods for analyzing language emerging from recent developments in anthropology, focusing particularly on tools for examining how language works in social contexts (e.g., language pragmatics, metapragmatics, linguistic ideology), then considers ethnographies of language in legal contexts which used these tools to give insights into the vital role of language in law. Students who have already done fieldwork may consider applying linguistic anthropological approaches to their own ethnographic materials. A six-week course. ANT 522B Topics in Theory and Practice of Anthropology (Half-Term) This 6-week course for graduate students will focus on recent key theoretical and ethnographic texts on gender and sexuality. Recent research in clinical psychoanalytic, linguistics and rhetoric, and anthropology have opened up new ways of understanding attachment, gender identification, and cultural context in the shaping of sexuality. This course will explore this literature, with the primary concern the utility of these frames for ethnographic research. EAS 548 The Quest for Health: Contemporary Debates on Harm, Medicine, and Ethics (also ANT 548 ) The course explores issues in medicine and global health with a focus on ethics. It addresses both ethics in the context of clinical decision-making and also the social, cultural, and economic "ethical field" of health care. Ever-expanding technological possibilities re-shape our social lives, extending them, giving greater control but taking it away. Treatments such as living donor organ transplantation, stem cell therapies, and physician-assisted suicide transform our understandings of life, death and what is expected from one another. Technologies such as glucometers bring new inequalities. EAS 549 Japan Anthropology in Historical Perspective (also ANT 549 ) The course concerns Japan studies in the context of theories of capitalism, personhood, democracy, gender, and modernity. The thematic focus this term is on health and medicine as they intertwine with social and cultural processes. Topics include: cultural variability of diagnosis and bio-medical practices; how biotechnologies shape and are shaped by social relationships; the containment of medicalization by received notions of kinship, gender, and national identity; conceptions of life itself; and models of public health and the containment of harmful behavior. Reading selections include material on Japan, China, and India. EAS 550 Topics in Social Theory and East Asia (also ANT 550 ) An introduction to classical social theory and an exploration of new directions in historical and social science literatures on East Asia. Weber's copnstruction of capitalism, Durkheim's notion of society, and Marx's concept of ideology all continue to inform contemporary East Asian studies; in turn, East Asian Studies has also been central to demonstrationg the Eurocentrism of many of these theories. HUM 599 Interpretation (also ANT 599 / COM 599 ) The arts of interpretation across the disciplines. SLA 515 Language & Subjectivity: Theories of Formation (also ANT 515 / COM 514 ) The purpose of the course is to examine key texts of the twentieth century that established the fundamental connection between language structures and practices on the one hand, and the formation of selfhood and subjectivity, on the other. In particular, the course focuses on theories that emphasize the role of formal elements in producing meaningful discursive and social effects. Works of Russian formalists and French (post)-structuralists are discussed in connection with psychoanalytic and anthropological theories of formation. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University