Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Graduate admissions A KU graduate education prepares students to lead in their industries and pursue progress in all its forms. As a Jayhawk, you’ll explore the world on your terms — and change it for the better. Get started Ready to apply? Start the application process or explore graduate programs. For more information about graduate studies, sign up for our mailing list. Apply to KU Apply to KU See programs See programs Request info Request info "As a research scientist, I'm thrilled to be in an environment like KU, where scholarship, mentoring, and basic research are what the institution is all about." K. Christopher Beard Foundation Distinguished Professor Last year, KU students received $383 million in financial assistance. You’ll fund your degree and research through federal aid, grants, fellowships, and other forms of assistance. Explore affordability International graduate students Roughly one in six graduate students at KU comes from outside the United States. Learn about our international admissions process or explore life as an international graduate student. See requirements Explore student life Graduate stats #1 overall: local government management #1 among public universities: Special education $275M in externally funded research Make a plan Considering your next steps? No matter where you are in your education, you can start planning for graduate study right now. Prepare Prepare Once you’re admitted If you’ve been accepted into a KU graduate program, you’ll have a short list of things to know and actions to complete. See next steps Through close collaboration with faculty and mentors, KU graduate students gain expert knowledge — and take it to new, exciting heights. graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.