Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Academics Master's Programs Doctoral Programs STEM Programs Graduate Course Explorer Student & Alumni Experiences Amber Cowan ’11 Torrey Creed ’07 Suzie Mindel ’98 Dana Muñiz Pacheco ’21 Eric Perinovic ’20 William Schwaller ’20 Keisha I. Wiel '21 Studying at Temple Admissions How to Apply Admissions Contacts Application Status Next Steps for Admitted Students International Applicants Before You Apply When You Apply Next Steps for Admitted International Students Costs, Financial Aid & More University Financial Support Federal Financial Aid External Funding Opportunities Other Funding Opportunities Request Information Recruiting Schedules Postdoctoral Affairs Postdoctoral & Visiting Scholar Categories Postdoctoral Resources Salary Schedule Open Positions Procedures Next Steps for Postdoctoral & Visiting Scholars Resources Graduate Calendar Policies & Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Student Life Dissertation & Thesis Handbook About Temple Faculty Staff Directory Alumni Graduate Board Diversity International Students Initiatives & Programs Philadelphia Campuses Getting to Campus News Apply Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Apply Graduate Bulletin News Graduate School Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Policies & Procedures You are here Home Resources Policies & Procedures Academics Master's Programs Doctoral Programs STEM Programs Graduate Course Explorer Student & Alumni Experiences Amber Cowan ’11 Torrey Creed ’07 Suzie Mindel ’98 Dana Muñiz Pacheco ’21 Eric Perinovic ’20 William Schwaller ’20 Keisha I. Wiel '21 Studying at Temple Admissions How to Apply Admissions Contacts Application Status Next Steps for Admitted Students International Applicants Before You Apply When You Apply Next Steps for Admitted International Students Costs, Financial Aid & More University Financial Support Federal Financial Aid External Funding Opportunities Other Funding Opportunities Request Information Recruiting Schedules Postdoctoral Affairs Postdoctoral & Visiting Scholar Categories Postdoctoral Resources Salary Schedule Open Positions Procedures Next Steps for Postdoctoral & Visiting Scholars Resources Graduate Calendar Policies & Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Student Life Dissertation & Thesis Handbook About Temple Faculty Staff Directory Alumni Graduate Board Diversity International Students Initiatives & Programs Philadelphia Campuses Getting to Campus News Apply Temple University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all, in every aspect of its operations. The university has pledged not to discriminate on the basis of age, color, disability, marital status, national or ethnic origin, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, genetic information, or veteran status. Our policies on the prevention of, and how we address, discrimination and harassment are fully defined and listed for all to understand. These policies extend to all educational, service and employment programs of the university. Our environment is open to all and caters to everyone with a desire to obtain higher education and knowledge. We offer a complete listing of Graduate School-specific policies and procedures, as well as universitywide policies and procedures. General Policies Academic Honesty Academic honesty and integrity constitute the root of the educational process at Temple University. Intellectual growth relies on the development of independent thought and respect for the thoughts of others. To foster this independence and respect, plagiarism and academic cheating are prohibited. Plagiarism is the unacknowledged use of another individual's ideas, words, labor or assistance. All coursework submitted by a student, including papers, examinations, laboratory reports and oral presentations, is expected to be the individual effort of the student who presents the work. When it is not, that assistance must be reported to the instructor. If the work involves the consultation of other resources such as books, journals or other media, those resources must be cited in the appropriate style. All other borrowed material, such as suggestions for organization, ideas or actual language, must also be cited. Failure to cite any borrowed material, including information from the internet, constitutes plagiarism. Academic cheating results when the general rules of academic work or the specific rules of individual courses are broken. It includes falsifying data; helping others to plagiarize or cheat from one's own or another's work; submitting, without the instructor's approval, work in one course that was done for another; or undertaking the work of another person. The penalty for academic dishonesty can vary from a reprimand and receiving a failing grade for a particular assignment, to a failing grade in the course, to suspension or expulsion from the university. The penalty varies with the nature of the offense. Students who believe that they have been unfairly accused may appeal through their school's or college's academic grievance procedure and, ultimately, to the Graduate Board if academic dismissal has occurred. Academic Rights & Responsibilities Temple University students who believe instructors are introducing extraneous material into class discussions or that their grades are being affected by their opinions or views that are unrelated to a course’s subject matter can file a complaint under the university’s policy on academic rights and responsibilities. The policy encourages students to first discuss their concerns with their instructor. If a student is uncomfortable doing so, or if discussions with the instructor do not resolve the student’s concerns, an informal complaint can be made to the Student Ombudsperson within a particular school or college. Unresolved complaints may be referred to the dean for handling in accordance with the aforementioned school’s or college’s established grievance procedure. Final appeals will be determined by the Office of the Provost. Equal Opportunity Compliance Temple University’s equal opportunity/affirmative action program complies with federal regulations. The inclusive objectives of the program are employ and advance in employment qualified women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, Armed Forces service medal veterans, disabled veterans, recently separated veterans, and other protected veterans; and support the admission and successful participation of disadvantaged students, students with disabilities, and those for whom English is a second language. Learn more about Equal Opportunity Compliance policies at Temple. Sexual Harassment & Sexual Assault Sexual harassment and sexual assault subvert the mission and work of Temple University, and can threaten the career, educational experience and well-being of students, faculty and staff. Temple University is committed to providing a learning and working environment that emphasizes the dignity and worth of every member of its community, free from discriminatory conduct. Sexual harassment and sexual assault, in any form or context, are contrary to this and will not be tolerated. Learn more about the university’s policies on sexual harassment and sexual assault. Go back to ResourcesMore in Resources Graduate Calendar Policies & Procedures Frequently Asked Questions Student Life Dissertation & Thesis Handbook Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Graduate School 501 Carnell Hall 1803 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6104 USA Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Apply Visit Request More Info