Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Graduate School Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home Programs Admissions Resources to Prepare for Graduate School Student Stories Adonara Mucek, Ph.D. Geology '17 Adriana Mendoza, Ph.D. Mathematics '14 Andrew Olsen Becca Maher ('21, Ph.D.) Bryan Lynn, Ph.D. Integrative Biology Celeste Frazier Barthel, Ph.D. Education '21 Diane Brandt Garrett Rogers Ginny Katz, Ph.D. Geography Jafra Thomas Jordan Jimmie Kelsey Contreras Layla Ghazi Marie Tosa, Ph.D. Wildlife Sciences Sara Letton Tiara Walz, Ph.D. Public Health Glossary of Terms Student Ambassadors Current Students Master's Students Doctoral Students Certificate Students New Graduate Students Grad Welcome Week 2022 Co-sponsorships Your Graduate Committee Student Resources Grad Appreciation Week Grad Research Photo Competition Tips for Scheduling Committee Meetings Program of Study Graduate Teaching Assistantship (GTA) Training Thesis Guide Commencement Grad Inspire Grievance Procedures Request a Workshop Earning Concurrent Degrees or Pursuing a Dual Major Videos Career Preparation Grad Writing Group Challenge Graduate Writing Center Graduate Writing Center Online GRAD 420 - Graduate School Preparation GRAD 512 - Current Issues in Higher Education GRAD 513 - Professional Development in College and University Teaching GRAD 514 GRAD 516 - Graduate Teaching Seminar GRAD 520 - Responsible Conduct of Research GRAD 521 - Research Data Management GRAD 542 - The Inclusive College Classroom GRAD 550 - Introduction to Online Teaching GRAD 560 - Theories of Teaching and Learning GRAD 561 - Course Design and Methods GRAD 599 - Creating Happiness GRAD 599 - Interdisciplinary Teams GRAD Courses OSU Grad Advantage WR 599 - Scientific and Technical Research Writing WR 599 - Writing Workshop for Thesis and Dissertation Writers Funding Postdocs Faculty Resources Graduate Faculty Membership Graduate Council Representatives Graduate Program Policies Policy updates Holistic Admissions Graduate Mentoring Defining the Graduate Mentor The Importance of Mentors Apprenticeship and Mentoring Mentor and Mentee Pairing Maintaining and Evaluating Mentoring Suggestions for Mentoring Programs Handbooks, Manuals, and Guides Mentoring Bibliography Excellence in Mentoring Award Outcomes Assessment of Graduate Programs Communication Items Graduate Recruitment Toolkit College and Program Recruitment Representatives Graduate Recruitment Tips Helpful Recruitment Links Shared Graduate Recruitment Schedule Leave of Absence and Family Medical Leave Eligibility Mentor Training for Faculty Student Funding Student Progress Student Registration Information Supporting Fulbright-Sponsored Students Diversity About News April 2022 Newsletter March 2022 Newsletter February 2022 Newsletter Staff Strategic Plan Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Home Programs Admissions Current Students Funding Postdocs Faculty Resources Diversity About You are here Home » Programs Graduate Programs (Majors, Minors, and Certificates) Location - Any -CorvallisOSU Portland CenterEcampusOSU-Cascades Degrees Offered - Any -DoctoralMaster'sCertificatesMinors College - Any -College of Agricultural SciencesCollege of BusinessCollege of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric SciencesCollege of EducationCollege of EngineeringCollege of ForestryCollege of Liberal ArtsCollege of PharmacyCollege of Public Health and Human SciencesCollege of ScienceCollege of Veterinary MedicineGraduate School College of Agricultural Sciences Agricultural Education (M.S., minor) Corvallis The Master of Science in Agricultural Education offers coursework that serves educators, leaders, and communicators in the broad agricultural industry. Agricultural education combines skills in leadership development, experiential learning, and teaching instruction, in order to educate others about the importance of agriculture, food, and natural resources. Agricultural educators teach (both... Animal Sciences (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis Oregon State University's Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences offers a Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Animal Sciences. Graduate students in the animal sciences program work on advancing scientific knowledge and fundamental understanding of areas such as reproductive biology and... Applied Economics (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP Oregon State University's Applied Economics Graduate Program offers M.S., M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Applied Economics. The curricula provide, at both master’s and doctoral levels: (i) a foundation of rigorous core courses in economic theory, econometrics, and other quantitative methods; and (ii) areas of concentration in resource and environmental economics, trade and development, and other... Botany and Plant Pathology (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The Department of Botany and Plant Pathology offers graduate programs leading to M.S., and Ph.D. degrees that prepare students for a variety of future employment opportunities. Our graduates are employed in both the public and private sector by local, state, national or international employers. Professional... Crop Science (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis If you are dedicated to creating better ways to feed or fuel the world now and in the future, studying crop science can ensure that you have a hand in the development of new, sustainable methods of agriculture for Oregon and the world. You'll gain practical experience in quality breeding methods, seed technology, entomology, weed management techniques and more. The Department of Crop... Entomology (minor) Corvallis If you're an intellectually curious, motivated student looking to explore all facets of insect biology, consider studying Entomology at Oregon State. The Entomology Program is an interdisciplinary program involving many faculty from across campus, comprising areas of entomology relating to: Aquatic & riparian ecology Pollinator conservation Integrated... Fisheries and Wildlife Administration (PSM) Corvallis Ecampus The Professional Science Master’s degree in Fisheries and Wildlife Administration (PSMFWA) provides advanced training for recently finished undergraduates looking to enter the workforce or early-career professionals employed by natural resources agencies, non-government organizations, and other entities seeking to advance their careers. The PSMFWA also provides an opportunity for employers to... Fisheries Management (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus This 18-credit graduate credential will help prepare you to link scientists, decision-makers, and stakeholders when managing recreational and commercial fisheries and fish habitat and contribute towards the general conservation of aquatic resources. Through quality courses, you can practice skills in biology, economy, law and social science as you deal with issues across a wide range of... Fisheries Science (M.S., Ph.D., minor) Corvallis The Fisheries Science graduate program offered by the Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Convservation Sciences provides students with the opportunity to study with faculty that have expertise in a diverse array of disciplines including but not limited to fish ecology, quantitative analyses of marine and freshwater fish populations... Food Science and Technology (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The Department of Food Science and Technology offers graduate programs leading toward the Master of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy degrees. A variety of research specializations are available covering the chemical, physical, microbiological, and sensory properties of foods. Areas of thesis research Research disciplines ... Horticulture (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The Department of Horticulture offers graduate work leading to the Master of Agriculture (MAg), Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees. The MS and PhD degrees culminate in original research reported in a thesis and are often pursued by students interested in research related careers, or who wish direct training in research methods. The MAg degree provides for broad... Leading and Creating Change (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus The Leading and Creating Change graduate certificate prepares you to create positive change and make an impact in your profession and communities. You will learn how to develop your ability to work effectively in leading teams, understand and support the perspectives of others, manage conflict, engage in difficult conversations, think strategically as you create new initiatives, and coach,... Organic Agriculture Graduate Certificate (CERT) Ecampus The online Graduate Certificate in Organic Agriculture prepares students to work in organic food production, processing, distribution, policy-making, education, or other organic-related businesses. The certificate offers students the flexibility to specialize in particular aspects of organic agriculture. Students can learn the social and cultural impacts of organic agriculture by... Rangeland Ecology and Management (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis Oregon State University's Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences offers a Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Rangeland Ecology and Management. The department is accredited by the Society for Range Management who is recognized throughout the country as one of the leading institutions of... Soil Science (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The Crop and Soil Science department offer graduate programs, with specialization in various fields of soil science, leading to M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. Supporting course work is chosen for each student from the basic sciences and other related fields. Original research is an essential part of M.S. and Ph.D. programs. Each program is individually designed by the student and his or her graduate... Toxicology (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The programs in Department of Environmental and Molecular Toxicology provides comprehensive course work and training to prepare prospective toxicologist and environmental health scientists for careers in academia, government, and industry. The ... Wildlife Management Graduate Certificate (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus This 18-credit graduate credential will help prepare you to link scientists, decision-makers, and stakeholders when managing issues around wildlife management, conservation biology, and habitat management and restoration. Through quality courses, you'll acquire and practice skills in biology, economy, law and social science as you deal with issues across a wide range of perspectives and... Wildlife Science (M.S., Ph.D., minor) Corvallis The Wildlife Science graduate degree offered by the Department of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences provides students with the opportunity to study with faculty that have diverse taxonomic and disciplinary expertise including but not limited to the ecology and conservation of birds, mammals (including marine mammals) and... College of Business Business Administration (minor) Corvallis Ecampus Graduate students interested in the Business Administration minor should contact Graduate Business Programs, College of Business, Austin Hall 326, OSU, Corvallis, OR 97331-2603 or email [email protected] Only non-College of Business graduate students are eligible. Business Administration (Ph.D., MBA) Corvallis OSU Portland Center Ecampus AMP The Oregon State Graduate Business Programs are committed to educating our students to be the kind of people we want to work for – people who work hard, earn success and lead by example as innovative, socially responsible and globally minded business people. Master’s Degree in Business Administration The Oregon State MBA offers a variety of degree programs and certificates to... Business Analytics (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus The 21-credit Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics is designed to provide advanced coursework and experiential learning opportunities to students interested in careers that involve the application of statistical modeling, data warehousing, data mining, programming, forecasting and operations research techniques to the analysis of problems of business organization and performance. ... Business Fundamentals (CERT) Ecampus The 18-credit Graduate Certificate in Business Fundamentals is designed for professionals who do not have formal business training and are seeking to advance into management and other leadership positions. Students study the fundamentals of finance, accounting, marketing, law, and operations to understand how all enterprises bring value to their customers, employees, and owners. The... Design and Human Environment (Ph.D., M.A., M.S.) Corvallis The Design and Human Environment program prepares students for college and university teaching, research and creative scholarship; careers in design, product development, product quality assurance or merchandising; historic/cultural research, collection management, and preservation of textile and architectural artifacts; and public policy. Research is a central component of the DHE... Financial Planning (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus The Graduate Certificate in Financial Planning prepares students, who already have an undergraduate degree, for careers in financial planning and individual wealth management. The program prepares students to take the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) certification exam. The certificate coursework includes all the curriculum required by the CFP Board, including instruction in retirement... Master of Accountancy (MAC) Corvallis The Master of Accountancy is a one-year master’s program for students with an undergraduate degree in accounting. It allows accounting students to receive an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree during their five years of university study required to become a CPA. As an integrated program, the MAC is designed to allow students the opportunity to plan early enough in their... Master of Science in Business (MSB) Corvallis Ecampus The Oregon State graduate business programs are committed to educating our students to be the kind of people we want to work for – people who work hard, earn success and lead by example as innovative, socially responsible and globally minded business people. Master of Science in Business Our Master of Science in Business (MSB) will give you focused exploration into a specific... Organizational Leadership (minor) Corvallis Ecampus The graduate minor in Organizational Leadership provides an evidence-based exploration of organizational behavior, negotiations, team management, job design, evaluation and motivation of employees, human resource management, conflict management, employee stress, and work-life balance. These skills are applicable across a wide range of disciplines for both master's and Ph.D. graduate students.... Supply Chain and Logistics Management (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus The 21-credit Graduate Certificate in Supply Chain and Logistics Management is designed to provide advanced coursework and experiential learning opportunities to students interested in careers in supply chain management, warehouse operations, planning and forecasting, procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and inventory management. Oregon’s economy spans the entire supply chain from... College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences Geographic Information Science (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus Geographic Information Science (GIScience or GISci) includes the existing technologies and research areas of geographic information systems (GIS), cartography, remote sensing, photogrammetry, surveying (also termed geomatics in the U.S.), and quantitative spatial analysis. GIScience therefore addresses fundamental issues in the use of digital technology to handle... Geography (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis Ecampus Geography is the study of human use and interaction with the Earth and the identification of spatial and temporal variation in natural and human processes. Geography uses principles of mathematics, social science, and natural science to analyze and interpret spatial processes and change in the environment and human society. Course offerings combined with excellent research facilities... Geology (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis Geology is the study of the materials, processes, and history of the solid Earth and its fluid envelopes. Geology is an integrative field, drawing on mathematics, chemistry, physics and biology to understand the interactions of the lithosphere, biosphere, atmosphere and hydrosphere. Studies in geology commonly combine observations and measurements from field, laboratory, and computational... Marine Resource Management (CERT) Corvallis The management of our marine resources encompass both biophysical and human dimensions. Marine management professionals need to understand these dimensions, utilizing both physical and social sciences to tackle challenging issues, and effectively communicate best management practices to scientists, decision makers, and stakeholders. The Marine Resource Management graduate certificate... Marine Resource Management (M.S., minor) Corvallis Marine Resource Management (MRM) is a science-based, interdisciplinary master's program based in the College of Earth, Ocean, and Astmospheric Science (CEOAS). The program provides students with the multidisciplinary training necessary to function confidently and effectively in professional resource management positions. Marine and coastal issues are technically and politically complex,... Ocean, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences (Ph.D., M.S.) Corvallis Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences is an interdisciplinary graduate major that first introduces students to the elements of the Earth system and the processes of mass and energy flow among them through a set of core courses. Students then pursue focused graduate course work and research in the following concentration areas, directed by their program committee. Atmospheric... Risk and Uncertainty Quantification in Earth Systems (minor) Corvallis Marine and coastal scientific and management issues are technically and socially complex, involving many forms of science, interests, perspectives, and stakeholders. There is much uncertainty in modeling forecast and policy outcome associated with climate change and global markets. This interdisciplinary minor will provide graduate students with knowledge and skills to quantify and communicate... Water Conflict Management and Transformation (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus The graduate certificate in Water Conflict Management and Transformation is an 18-credit interdisciplinary program. It is designed to provide graduate students, non-degree students, water professionals and decision-makers with the required specialized resources and skills to address the water demands and challenges of the 21st Century, in Oregon, across the United States and... Water Conflict Management and Transformation (minor) Corvallis Ecampus The graduate minor in Water Conflict Management and Transformation is designed to accommodate the needs of professionals and graduate students. It offers an integrative approach that explicitly integrates human and policy dimensions of water resources within the framework of scientific and technological solutions. This minor is a flexible, coherent program that offers critical and... College of Education Adult and Higher Education (Ed.M., Ed.D., Ph.D., minor) Ecampus The College of Education offers online and hybrid graduate work leading to Master of Education (Ed.M.), Doctor of Education (Ed.D.), and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees with a major in Adult and Higher Education. Master of Education (Ed.M.) The Master of Education in Adult and Higher Education is offered fully online in partnership with College of Education and Ecampus.... Counseling (Ph.D., MCoun) Ecampus OSU-Cascades The mission of the Oregon State University graduate program in counseling is to prepare professional leaders who promote the social, psychological and physical well-being of individuals, families, communities and organizations. We believe that such professional leaders stand for social, economic and political justice and therefore must... Dual Language Education (CERT) Ecampus The Dual Language specialization focuses on enabling Oregon's kindergarten through 12th grade (K-12) teachers to effectively educate students in dual language settings. OSU’s Dual Language specialization follows a standards-based curriculum, addressing the six domains specified in Oregon Administrative Rule 584-420-0630: Language Culture Planning, Implementing... Education (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis Ecampus AMP An education major at Oregon State University enables you to become a proactive educator. The education program has several degree types and options. Master of Science (M.S.) The Master of Science (M.S.) in Education hybrid degree program prepares candidates to be secondary science and mathematics teachers. This hybrid program blends asynchronous online... English for Speakers of Other Languages (CERT) Ecampus The ESOL endorsement focuses on enabling Oregon's kindergarten through 12th grade (K-12) teachers to effectively educate students who are learning English as an additional language. Oregon State University's ESOL endorsement follows a standards-based curriculum, addressing the six domains specified in Oregon Administrative Rule 584-420-0360: 1) Language; 2) Culture; 3) Planning,... Instructional Design (CERT) Ecampus The online Instructional Design Certificate provides coursework focusing on The application of educational media and technology skills Developing multimedia materials Instructional design Instructional needs analysis Computer interface design for learning Students will complete courses part-time in four consecutive terms. ... Teaching (MAT) Ecampus OSU-Cascades Oregon State University offers a Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) degree, with differing options available in OSU-Corvallis, OSU-Cascades, and through Ecampus. Visit each page to learn more, and how to apply. Cascades: Language Arts, Social Studies, Mathematics, Science, Elementary... College of Engineering Artificial Intelligence (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis Artificial Intelligence (AI) is the study of intelligent artifacts and the principles behind their design, construction, and analysis. Oregon State has a long history of excellence in AI since the early days of computer science. The field traces its origin to many disciplines, including philosophy, psychology, mathematics, and engineering. Today, AI is making contributions to all areas... Bioengineering (MEng, M.S., Ph.D.) Corvallis Bioengineering is an interdisciplinary field that applies engineering principles and quantitative methods to the advancement of knowledge at the molecular, cellular, tissue, organ, and system levels, and to the development of new biologicals, materials, devices, and processes. Oregon State University and the University of Oregon have partnered to offer joint Master of Science and Doctor... Biological and Ecological Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis The BEE department offers programs leading to M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. The objective of these programs are to serve as the interface between life sciences and engineering. Biological and Ecological Engineering is the application of engineering and life-science principles and problem-solving techniques to the optimum use... Chemical Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis The School of Chemical, Biological and Environmental Engineering offers the following degrees in chemical engineering Master of Science (M.S.) Master of Engineering (Coursework Only) (MEng) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Students can choose from among the following areas of concentration: Biochemical Reactors Biotechnology ... Civil Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The Department of Civil and Construction Engineering offers three graduate degree programs, Master of Engineering (MEng), Master of Science in Civil Engineering (M.S.), and Doctorate in Civil Engineering... Computer Science (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Oregon State University provides a comprehensive, state-of-the-art education that prepares our students to be successful in engineering practice, advanced studies and research. The computer science master's program provides advanced instruction beyond the undergraduate degree. It prepares students for careers in which a higher... Electrical and Computer Engineering (MEng, M.S., Ph.D., minor) Corvallis AMP The School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Oregon State University provides a comprehensive, state-of-the-art education that prepares our students to be successful in engineering practice, advanced studies and research. The master's degree provides advanced instruction beyond the undergraduate degree. It prepares students for careers in which a higher level of... Engineering Management (CERT) Ecampus The Engineering Management Graduate Certificate provides an opportunity for professionals with a background in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics to gain a foundational education in the management skills necessary to transition to a position of management or leadership. Environmental Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis Graduate studies in Environmental Engineering at Oregon State University emphasize the understanding of fundamental scientific and engineering principles to manage and solve environmental problems in natural and engineering systems. The instructional program is designed to develop strong analytical, design, and management capabilities in the application of biological, chemical and physical... Industrial Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis Ecampus AMP Industrial Engineering is the application of science, mathematics, and engineering methods to complex system integration and operation. Because the systems with which they work is so large and complex, industrial engineers (IEs) must develop expertise in a wide variety of disciplines, the ability to work well with people, and a broad, systems perspective. All IE graduate students learn... Materials Science (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The discipline of materials science is inherently interdisciplinary, involving fundamental aspects of chemistry, physics, biology, geoscience, agricultural science, mathematics, and engineering. Reflecting this character, the materials science program at Oregon State University, initiated in the 1980s, is spread over nine different departments spanning three colleges. This allows... Mechanical Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The Mechanical Engineering (ME) profession is dedicated to applying principles of physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics in the analysis, design, manufacturing and maintenance of mechanical components, devices, and systems. Oregon State's graduate program in ME is designed to educate leaders who will develop and improve systems for transforming energy, health, materials, and information... Nuclear Engineering (Ph.D., MEng, M.S., minor) Corvallis The School of Nuclear Science and Engineering offers graduate work leading toward the Master of Engineering, Master of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Nuclear Engineering. The nuclear engineering graduate degree is designed to prepare students for careers involved with the many beneficial applications of nuclear energy, radiation, and radioactive materials. Nuclear... Radiation Health Physics (Ph.D., MHP, M.S., minor) Corvallis Ecampus The School of Nuclear Science and Engineering offers graduate work leading toward the Master of Health Physics, Master of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Radiation Health Physics. The Radiation Health Physics program is designed to prepare students for careers involved with the many beneficial applications of nuclear energy... Robotics (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The field of robotics has grown significantly in the last decade and continues to do so at an accelerating rate. Robots were, until very recently, in the hands of a few specialists, but are increasingly moving into the mainstream. Household robots, prosthetic limbs, robotic cars, assistive care robots, and search and rescue robots are all becoming a part of our lives. Robots for exploration... College of Forestry Forest Ecosystems and Society (Ph.D., MF, M.S.) Corvallis This graduate program combines a strong social science faculty with a strong biological and ecological science faculty and so provides an unusual opportunity to focus on the interface of social science and ecology. The FES graduate program provides specific disciplinary opportunities in both ecological and social sciences in the natural resource setting but also strives to develop... Forests and Climate Change (CERT) Ecampus Expand your understanding of climate change impacts on forest ecosystems with an online certificate in Forests and Climate Change. If you are a working forestry professional this online certificate is a great way to expand your academic credentials in an area of increasing critical importance. ... Natural Resources (MNR) Ecampus AMP Develop analytical and problem solving skills associated with complex natural resources issues, and learn from world-renowned OSU faculty. This is an accredited program in which you study the interaction of ecological, economic, ethical and social systems. Students explore multiple fields and choose an area of emphasis based on their professional goals and interests. This program taps... Sustainable Forest Management (Ph.D., M.F., M.S.) Corvallis The Sustainable Forest Management graduate program emphasizes the conservation of forest-dominated landscapes to meet a defined set of ecological, economic and social criteria over long time frames. The program follows the sustainable principles outlined by the Montreal Process Criteria and Indicators. These principles have been adopted by the state of Oregon. This... Sustainable Natural Resources (CERT) Ecampus The Sustainable Natural Resources graduate certificate is an 18-credit interdisciplinary program offered online through OSU Extended Campus. Students have a choice among 12 courses designed to build personal and organizational capacity to examine the many aspects of natural resource problems—environmental, economic, and social—in the search for innovative solutions. ... Urban Forestry (CERT) Ecampus Urban forestry involves the planning, planting, and management of trees and related vegetation in and around cities. The urban forest is made up of the mosaic of the planted landscape and native forest remnants left behind as cities have developed. Urban forestry is an academic discipline that is related to Forestry, Horticulture, Urban Planning, Landscape Architecture, and Land Use... Wood Science (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis We offer M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in wood science with a broad range of specialties. Example specialties are chemistry, physics, composites, bio-deterioration and business. Dual M.S. and Ph.D. degrees are also possible. Common dual degrees are with material science and civil engineering. Renewable materials like wood are essential to human existence. The demand for the energy and... College of Liberal Arts Anthropology (minor) Corvallis The School of Language, Culture, and Society offers graduate work leading to a Master of Arts in Applied Anthropology. The school also offers graduate work leading to a Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies and participates as a minor field in other advanced degree programs. A variety of individualized programs are... Applied Anthropology (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis The School of Language, Culture, and Society offers graduate work leading to a master's or Ph.D. in Applied Anthropology. The school also offers graduate work leading to a master of arts in interdisciplinary studies and participates as a minor field in other advanced degree programs. This program is geared toward... Applied Ethics (M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis There is a great need for people who can make wise decisions about the moral and ethical issues facing the workplace, the community, and the larger world. You can be one of those people. OSU’s master's in Applied Ethics program is designed to develop your moral reasoning and critical thinking skills in the service of an engaged life. Through coursework, a real-world practicum, and a... Art (minor) Corvallis The School of Visual, Performing or Design Arts offers graduate work leading to the Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MAIS) and toward minors in other advanced degree programs. Emphasis may be in Fine Arts, Art History, or Photography. These fields offer sufficient depth to provide a strong minor. College Student Services Administration (M.S., EdM, CERT, minor) Corvallis Ecampus The program’s primary mission is to prepare individuals for professional administrative positions in student services departments at two- and four-year colleges and universities. The curriculum emphasizes administrative leadership and management of programs and services. Included in these programs and services are: residence halls and student housing enrollment... Creative Writing (MFA) Corvallis OSU-Cascades Oregon State University has a long tradition of excellence in producing and teaching creative writing, going all the way back to the 1950s when the future distinguished novelist William Kittredge was a student here, and Bernard Malamud won a National Book Award while teaching in the English Department. This is a distinguished past, but our present is even more remarkable. ... Energy Policy (CERT) Ecampus Students enrolled in the Graduate Certificate in Energy Policy are offered a choice of courses that will prepare them with the skills and competencies needed to understand economic, social, political and cultural dynamics of energy policy, and to design and evaluate energy policy as it pertains to their context. Rooted in political science, sociology, economics, and various... English (M.A., minor) Corvallis AMP In the School of Writing, Literature, and Film we pride ourselves on providing vibrant and forward-looking learning environments for the study of textual disciplines and complex literacies. We offer full funding to all of our graduate students through graduate teaching assistantships, grants, and fellowships. Graduate students also have opportunities for internships in a wide variety of... Environmental Arts and Humanities (M.A., minor) Corvallis AMP The Environmental Arts and Humanities Program prepares students for good, wise work with: environmental non-profits government and land agencies advocacy groups corporations green business journalism conservation and stewardship formal and informal education and other roles that require strong,... Ethnic Studies (minor) Corvallis Graduate work in the School of Language, Culture, and Society may serve as a field of study for the Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies degree or as a minor in other advanced degree programs. The program offers an interdisciplinary exploration of the critical areas of race, class, ethnicity, and gender in American life, as well as focused study of the four major ethnic minority groups... Food in Culture and Social Justice (minor) Corvallis This interdisciplinary graduate minor in Food in Culture and Social Justice prepares students to examine food from a variety of perspectives. When and how we eat, what is considered acceptable to eat, how we prepare it, and how we learn about producing and eating food are all fascinating questions to explore by humanists and social scientists. Histories of particular food... History & Philosophy of Science (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis The History & Philosophy of Science graduate program provides professional training in the interdisciplinary subject of history of science. The program connects the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences by studying and interpreting the development of the sciences within particular historical settings and analyzing the changing roles of the sciences within modern cultures.... History (M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis Ecampus Masters of History graduates will, via a variety of career paths, help address society’s “big problems,” including racial and social injustice, violence and war, and informed analysis of technological and scientific developments, with a historical and humanities-based perspective. History is the study of the human past as it is constructed and interpreted with human artifacts, written evidence... Music (minor) Corvallis Through the School of Visual, Performing or Design Arts, graduate students may participate in the following programs: Professional Music Teacher Education, the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT), the Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MAIS), and the Master of Education (EdM) with a... Philosophy (minor) Corvallis The School of History, Philosophy, and Religion is committed to teaching students the skills and knowledge they need to reason cogently and decide wisely about difficult issues they will confront as citizens and professionals. The school offers graduate work leading to the Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies degree with specialization in applied ethics and in other areas of philosophy... Political Science (minor) Corvallis In the Political Science program, you'll learn the ideas of great political thinkers, controversies involved in issues as current as the front page of today's newspapers, and everything in between. You will have engaging discussions and debates from all points of view in class, with students and professors. You'll learn to think critically, write clearly and speak persuasively. You'll learn... Psychology (Ph.D., minor) Corvallis The School of Psychological Science offers a Ph.D. in Psychology. Most students earn an M.S. in conjunction with Ph.D. completion; all applicants apply and are admitted to the Ph.D. as the M.S. is not offered as a terminal degree. Most questions about the program are answered at the... Public Policy (Ph.D., MPP, EMPP) Corvallis Ecampus Oregon State University offers both Master and PhD Public Policy degrees for students interested in the study and practice of policy about issues critical to Oregonians and the world, drawing on the traditional strengths and emerging signature areas of OSU. While there is a science of policy including theoretical and methodological approaches that we expect students to master, the discipline... Queer Studies (minor) Corvallis The graduate minor in Queer Studies prepares students to examine how gender and sexuality are constructed and policed and, further, imagines liberatory futures for people of all genders and sexualities. Centering itself on the activism and scholarship of women of color, transnational feminisms, Two-Spirit Indigenous people, and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ)... Rural Policy (CERT) Ecampus Students enrolled in the Graduate Certificate in Rural Policy are offered a choice of over a dozen courses that will prepare them with the skills and competencies needed to understand economic, social, political and cultural dynamics of rural places, and to design and evaluate rural policy as it pertains to their context. Rooted in social sciences and various natural resource sciences... Sociology (minor) Corvallis Students should follow the guidelines within their major academic program in declaring a minor. Minimum number of credits for Sociology is 15 or higher if required by major. All students interested in declaring sociology as a graduate minor must contact the Graduate Advisor in the program prior to doing so. Ph.D. students pursuing a minor in sociology must take both a... Speech Communication (minor) Corvallis Speech Communication participates in the Master of Arts in Interdisciplinary Studies (MAIS) program. The MAIS degree allows a graduate student to attain broad, advanced knowledge and achievement from three fields of study. Any graduate major or minor may serve as a field for this degree. Two of the three fields may be from one department if the areas of concentration within these two... Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (Ph.D., M.A., minor) Corvallis Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies is the multidisciplinary study of gender and women's lives and experiences. Course work explores women's realities in such areas as the political and social sciences, health, psychology, history, literature, and the arts. Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies programs grew out of the women's movement, involving understandings of discrimination in society and... College of Pharmacy Pharmaceutical Sciences (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The College of Pharmacy at Oregon State University offers a research-oriented graduate study program in pharmaceutical sciences that is individually designed to meet each student’s career interests and goals. Our nationally renowned faculty members have strengths in all areas of pharmaceutical science, and many have been recognized for teaching excellence, outstanding research and their... College of Public Health and Human Sciences Aging Sciences (minor) Corvallis IGERT trainees work toward a minor in Aging Sciences, which integrates knowledge from the diet and genetics, musculoskeletal, psychosocial, and gerontechnology research cores in CHAR. To complete this integrated minor, IGERT trainees must acquire a... Athletic Training (MATRN) Corvallis The OSU Master of Athletic Training program prepares you to work in a multitude of environments within the diverse and expanding field of athletic training. As a health care professional, athletic trainers care for and rehabilitate their patients in universities, schools, corporations, professional sports teams and more. This program participates in the... Epidemiology (minor) Corvallis The Epidemiology graduate minor is intended for doctoral students who seek additional formal training and mentoring in epidemiology. Epidemiology is also offered as a concentration in the Public Heath program for the Master of Public Health and Ph.D. degrees. Learn more on the... Ergonomics (minor) Corvallis The prevention of musculoskeletal injuries and the application of ergonomic principles is paramount in public health, business and engineering. The Graduate Minor in Ergonomics is for masters and doctoral-level students who seek additional formal training and mentoring in ergonomic practice. Students pursuing a Minor in Ergonomics must include at least one... Gerontology (minor) Corvallis Gerontology refers to the study of aging, and also includes adult development. The existence of large numbers of individuals over the age of 65 is unprecedented in the history of humankind. In the next ten years, the number of older adults is expected to double in developed countries, and quadruple in the developing world. This growth will pose major challenges for societies in addressing the... Human Development and Family Studies (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis Human development and family studies offers graduate work leading to master of science and doctor of philosophy degrees. Graduate programs take a multidisciplinary approach, preparing students for college and university teaching and research, as well as development, administration, and evaluation of programs serving individuals and families across the lifespan. Our research is... Kinesiology (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis This program was formally known as Exercise and Sport Science The graduate program in Kinesiology offers courses and learning experiences in the theoretical and practical study of physical activity (including exercise and sport) for the promotion of optimal health and disease prevention. Graduate fields in kinesiology include exercise physiology, movement studies in... Master of Adapted Physical Education (MAPE) Corvallis The Master of Adapted Physical Education program is a professional degree graduate program which includes graduate courses as well as extensive practical experiences in public school physical education. The program is 14-months and begins every year in June. Successful completion of the program earns: A Master of Adapted Physical Education Degree Recommendation... Nutrition (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The School of Biological and Population Health Sciences offers a graduate program leading to the Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees in Nutrition. This program of study integrates multiple disciplines relevant to nutrition, including molecular, biochemical, physiological and clinical nutrition. The overall goal is for the student to... Public Health (CERT) Ecampus The graduate certificate in public health online program at Oregon State University is designed for public health practitioners and others seeking professional development and continuing education within the field of public health. The program focuses on the five core areas of public health: epidemiology, biostatistics, health promotion and behavior, environmental and occupational health, and... Public Health (Ph.D., MPH, minor) Corvallis Ecampus AMP We offer the most comprehensive range of accredited public health graduate degree program in Oregon and are gaining momentum and enthusiasm as the state’s first accredited college of public health. Our interdisciplinary approach, research centers and focus on both rural and urban health will enrich your educational experience and set you apart in this evolving profession. Our public... College of Science Biochemistry and Biophysics (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The Biochemistry and Biophysics graduate program in the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics grants primarily PhD degrees, but also offers thesis and nonthesis master's degrees. We offer a broad range of research topics through the faculty within the department, those... Chemistry (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP This graduate program is designed to take advantage of the previous experience of the incoming student. Research is undertaken with a faculty member of the student's choosing. Each student determines his or her course program with the assistance of a faculty advisor and committee. A coursework distribution augments technical skills, and it provides a broad, yet firm, background in advanced... Data Analytics (CERT) Ecampus The demand for professionals who can interpret large quantities of data has never been greater, and these skills are vital for scientific advances and business success worldwide. Whether you're an experienced analytics professional or looking to change careers and become one, you can chart your path forward by earning a master of science degree or a graduate certificate... Data Analytics (M.S.) Ecampus The demand for professionals who can interpret large quantities of data has never been greater, and these skills are vital for scientific advances and business success worldwide. Whether you're an experienced analytics professional or looking to change careers and become one, you can chart your path forward by earning a Master of Science degree or a Graduate... Integrative Biology (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The Department of Integrative Biology offers graduate work leading toward the master of science, and doctor of philosophy degrees in all areas of biology ranging from molecular to community levels. Research is conducted in laboratories on campus, at the Malheur Field Station in southeastern Oregon, at the Hatfield Marine Science Center in Newport, the H.J. Andrews Experimental Forest,... Mathematics (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The Department of Mathematics offers graduate programs leading to the M.A., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Mathematics with research emphasis possible in a variety of areas within pure and applied mathematics and in mathematics education. There are active faculty research groups in algebra and number theory, analysis, applied mathematics, geometry and topology, mathematical biology, mathematics... Microbiology (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The microbiology program provides graduate training leading towards Ph.D. and M.S. degrees. This program supports broad interests in microbiology, including environmental and pathogenic microbiology, with studies that encompass a spectrum of approaches from the ecological and organismal to the molecular genetic and biochemical. Faculty from several colleges and departments participate as major... Physics (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., minor) Corvallis AMP The Department of Physics offers courses and research experience leading to the master of arts, master of science, and doctor of philosophy degrees. Advanced-degree candidates may pursue thesis research in experimental, computational, or theoretical condensed matter physics, optical physics, biophysics, high energy physics, astrophysics, and physics education research. Special programs are... Statistics (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The department offers graduate work leading to M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Statistics. Students can concentrate on theory or applications, and programs can be tailored to emphasize such areas of interest as ecology, engineering, forestry, genetics/genomics and computational biology, mathematics, or oceanography. All students obtain experience as statistical consultants for problems in a variety... College of Veterinary Medicine Comparative Health Sciences (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The program of Comparative Health Sciences is a multi-disciplinary program offering graduate training towards M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. The program encourages applicants with interest in complex contemporaneous issues that require multi-disciplinary approach to be addressed. Faculty involved in the program have interests ranging from microbiology, ecology, immunology, nutrition, food science,... Graduate School Biological Data Sciences (minor) Corvallis The graduate minor in Biological Data Sciences will familiarize M.S. and Ph.D. graduate students in the life sciences with research concepts and methodologies in quantitative sciences, and those in the quantitative sciences with research concepts and methodologies in life sciences. The disciplinary learning goals of the minor are by nature foundational. Thus, for example, students with... College and University Teaching (CERT) Corvallis Ecampus The 18-credit Graduate Certificate in College and University Teaching is designed to provide advanced coursework and experiential learning opportunities to students who plan to pursue careers in teaching in higher education settings or who plan to pursue careers in other fields that may require similar facilitation skills. Students completing the Graduate Certificate in... Environmental Sciences (Ph.D., M.A., M.S., PSM, minor) Corvallis Ecampus AMP The Environmental Sciences Graduate Program provides curricula leading to M.A. M.S., Professional Science Master's (PSM) and Ph.D. degrees in environmental science. The curricula integrates thinking across disciplines, especially life, physical, and social sciences. Environmental science explores natural processes on earth and their alteration by human activity. Oregon State University... Interdisciplinary Studies (MAIS) Corvallis The MAIS is a degree program that provides an opportunity for motivated students to bring together three disciplines in a course of study that leads to an integration of all three fields. The purpose of integrating the three fields is to provide a new, more holistic insight into an issue, question, or problem in which the student has a passion or interest. The culminating experience for the... Water Resources Engineering (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis Students enrolled in this degree will be broadly trained to undertake life-long careers in water resources system design, and will have the option to focus on groundwater, surface water, or watershed engineering. Students will be required to take a minimum of 12 (M.S.) or 15 (Ph.D.) credits of graduate level engineering courses, and at least 6 (M.S.) or 9 (Ph.D.) credits of water... Water Resources Policy and Management (M.S., minor) Corvallis Students enrolled in this program will be broadly trained to undertake careers in managing water resources and in guiding or making water resource policy decisions. Graduates will be trained in public administration, policy theory, and will have practical experience in the professional arena, either through internships conducted as part of the degree program or (in some cases) through previous... Water Resources Science (Ph.D., M.S., minor) Corvallis The Water Resources Science Program is designed to train students broadly in water resources while maintaining an intellectual affiliation with a secondary field. Allied fields include ecology, forest science, geology, oceanography, atmospheric sciences, climatology, geomorphology... Programs All Graduate Programs Interdisciplinary Programs Accelerated Master's Platform Water Cooperation and Diplomacy Programme Western Regional Graduate Program (WRGP) Graduate Admissions Contact Info Graduate School Heckart Lodge 2900 SW Jefferson Way Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-1102 Phone: 541-737-4881 Fax: 541-737-3313 Email Contact Us Instagram Twitter Facebook Login Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Links Programs - Majors, minors and certificates Admissions Academic Progress Funding Student Success Postdocs Faculty Support Staff Directory Forms Graduate Catalog