Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Music and Multimedia Composition Ph.D. school Graduate School department Music Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Students in the Ph.D. program in Music and Multimedia Composition produce, analyze, and perform original works that may include the use of electronic music, acoustic composition and sound in combination with video, performance, installation and text. Students in the Ph.D. program in Music and Multimedia Composition produce, analyze, and perform original works that may include the use of electronic music, acoustic composition and sound in combination with video, performance, installation and text. They conduct advanced inquiry into the cultural, theoretical, technical and aesthetic issues surrounding music and multimedia production in close collaboration with faculty researchers strongly invested in real–time, interactive sonic and visual media, sound art, instrument design and acoustic composition. The program welcomes students working from diverse influences and methods, expanding their creative practices and underlying technical knowledge to spur artistic innovation. In addition to faculty mentorship, students can collaborate with a broad array of professional performing ensembles and visiting artists presented on the Brown University campus. The graduate program in Music and Multimedia Composition offers an array of resources unique to Brown. Students have access to the department's Multimedia and Electronic Music Experiments (MEME) studios, and the university's Granoff Center for the Creative Arts. These specialized research facilities house recording studios, electronics shops, project studios, exhibition and performance spaces. Regular opportunities exist to interface with the larger arts and digital media communities at Brown, at the nearby Rhode Island School of Design, in Providence and the New England region. Music and Multimedia Composition students also partake in the many scholarly offerings of the Musicology and Ethnomusicology PhD program, with faculty specialties in technoculture, sound studies, copyright, improvisation and organology. A Brown doctoral degree in Music and Multimedia Composition leads to a career in college and university teaching, or to a position in applied work outside higher education. Admission Information Inquire Apply TOEFL/IELTS guidelines. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: As needed by foreign applicants. Writing Sample: Required Portfolio: Submit an online portfolio of four examples of your creative work. This can include music, videos, installations, performances, scores, or other forms of creative work. Please include brief notes about each work and anything else that may help guide us in the evaluation process. Candidates are evaluated primarily on their creative work. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements In addition to the courses required for the A.M., five additional courses for a total of 13. Required courses include a minimum of four graduate–level seminars offered by the Music and Multimedia Composition program. After completion of all coursework in the third year, the candidate will take a three–hour oral preliminary examination. Passing the preliminary examination authorizes the candidate to proceed to the doctoral dissertation, which is completed during the fourth and fifth years. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Emily Dolan emily_dolan@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Ed Osborn ed_osborn@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Music Mailing Address Brown University Box 1924 music@brown.edu 401-863-3234 Visit the Department of Music Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Music and Multimedia Composition Open details for Music and Multimedia Composition Bookmark this Page