Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home About Us : Why UT Austin? Why UT Austin? Any good university educates its students. But a great university—a university with monumental impact and a tradition of intellectual leadership—does more. It transforms lives on a grand scale. Or, as we like to say, what starts here changes the world. Since 1883, students from across Texas and around the world have come to The University of Texas at Austin to seek challenges and open doors to the future. Graduate students choose the university for its reputation for academic excellence, its commitment to research and teaching, and its location. They also choose it for the diversity—in all its forms—evident on campus, and for which Austin is famous. Excellence in Research and Teaching The University of Texas at Austin is one of the world’s leading research universities, supporting cutting-edge research in all disciplines and offering more than 200 dedicated research units and centers, ranging from the Texas Advanced Computing Center to the Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin American Studies. It’s all done with an eye toward excellence. Review Our Rankings Austin, Texas With a cost of living that’s less than other major metropolitan areas like Los Angeles, New York and Seattle and a job growth rate that’s the strongest in the country, Austin is a great place to continue not only an education, but a career. Read More Life on Campus The University of Texas at Austin is big and bold. But it's also a place where graduate students find themselves, both in the classroom and in our unique, keepin'-it-weird community. Read More Visit UT Austin Come visit the Forty Acres and see our beautiful campus for yourself. Take a tour, connect with faculty, and visit our world-class resources, libraries and labs. Read More Quick Links More About the University Facts and Figures Mission and Values History and Traditions Diversity Recruitment Brochure Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022