Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » Preparing Future Faculty » Mentorship Set Navigation title in component Preparing Future Faculty Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources The PFF Mentorship Experience The culmination of the UC PFF program is the Mentoring Experience, which involves teaching- and service-related activities planned and conducted in close cooperation with an experienced mentor from one of our Collaborating Cluster Institutions: Xavier University, Northern Kentucky University, Mount St. Joseph University, Thomas More College, Hebrew Union College, or UC Blue Ash College. Students may also select mentors from other tristate institutions of higher education but must first make separate arrangements with the PFF Program Coordinator. Completion of the mentoring experience is required for PFF Graduate tier students and is worth twenty activity points. Mentorship Planning and Requirements Please note: the Teaching Effectiveness course must be completed before a Mentoring Agreement Contract will be approved. Therefore, the minimum time to complete the PFF Graduate tier is 1 year. Students with special circumstances regarding program completion must email gradpff@uc.edu to submit a request with a compelling rationale to the PFF program director to grant an exception. Furthermore, a student's advisor can no longer serve as the student's mentor for the mentoring experience. Please reach out to the PFF program coordinator at gradpff@uc.edu if you have any questions. Students must also select a mentor off of UC's Uptown Campus. Students unable to do so due to their program or special circumstances should email gradpff@uc.edu in order to discuss exceptions. In order to successfully complete the mentoring experience, all of the below requirements must be fulfilled, including: The Mentoring Request Form Mandatory Mentoring Documents (Mentoring Agreement Contract, signed Mentoring Log & Assessment, Student Reflection) Completion of twenty-five hours of mentoring activities Completion of two leadership activities Each of these requirements are explained in further detail below. Completing the Mentoring Request Form Students interested in the mentoring experience must complete the mentoring request form approximately two months prior to their desired start date. The request form allows students to indicate their mentoring preferences which the program coordinator does his or her best to honor. Students do not have to locate a mentor on their own. The program coordinator will reach out to cluster institutions for you. However, if the student has a mentor in mind, this individual can be identified on the mentoring request form. Mandatory Mentoring Documents All students must complete a Mentoring Agreement Contract, signed Mentoring Log & Assessment, and a Student Reflection. Each of these documents must be approved by the PFF-coordinator in order for the student to receive activity points. The Mentoring Log & Assessment and student reflection forms can be accessed by contacting the program coordinator. Mentoring Agreement Contract The Mentoring Agreement Contract must be completed collaboratively with your mentor and must be approved by the PFF coordinator prior to you starting your mentorship. This contract outlines the specifics of the mentoring experience, including how the student and mentor will interact and spend their time with one another. Mentoring Agreement Contracts must be signed by both the mentor and the mentee prior to submission. Contracts compiled prior to submission of the contract will not be accepted. Signed Mentoring Log & Assessment Students must complete the Mentoring Log as they complete the mentoring experience. This log tracks the activities, dates, and durations of mentoring activities completed by the student. At the completion of the mentoring experience, the student and the mentor will sign the Mentoring Log. In addition, the mentor will offer a short assessment regarding the PFF student. The mentoring log will be supplied once your Mentoring Agreement Contract has been approved. Student Reflection After completing the mentoring experience, students will complete a reflection paper about their experience. This reflection paper must be submitted to and approved by the program coordinator prior to the attainment of activity points. The reflection paper should address the following: Mentoring Log Discrepancies: In this section of the paper, students should address any discrepancies between the Mentoring Agreement Contract and the Mentoring Log. Students should identify the differences and provide a brief explanation of such deviations from the plan. Describe Your Mentoring Experience: What did mentoring actually look like for you? In a minimum of two double-spaced pages, describe the major activities in your mentoring experience and your observation of your mentor's institution. Identify Your Major Takeaways: Use this section of your reflection to consider what you gained from your mentorship. In a minimum of two double-spaced pages, identify your takeaways and how they are relevant to you and your future career. Please review full guidelines for this reflection before submission. Mentoring Activity Completion As part of the mentoring experience, students will complete twenty-five hours worth of mentoring activities, listed below. If the student wishes to complete activities out of these guidelines, he/she/they must receive permission from the program coordinator prior to participating in the activities. The student and mentor will thoroughly plan which activities the student will participate in, as reflected in the Mentoring Agreement Contract. In addition, the students will keep track of their completed activities, dates, and durations on the Mentoring Log. The student may complete their twenty-five hours by completing the following mentoring activities: Receive feedback from your mentor Participate in a structured discussion with your mentor Attend a faculty meeting at your mentor's institution Review learning objectives with your mentor Observe your mentor's lectures (ten hour maximum) Participate in student engagement activities Create course content Leadership Activity Completion As part of the mentoring experience, students will complete two leadership activities, listed below. If students wish to complete activities outside of these guidelines, he/she/they must receive permission from the program coordinator prior to participating in the activities. These activities will be identified prior to completion in the Mentoring Agreement Contract. If changes need to be made during the mentoring process, students must contact the PFF program coordinator. Students will track completion of these activities, dates, and durations in their Mentoring Logs. The student can choose any combination of the following activities as long as two are selected and they have been approved in the Mentoring Agreement Contract: Lead lecture in your mentor's course (one class session) Lead a seminar, discussion, or workshop at your mentor's institution Other leadership activity (must be pre-approved by program coordinator) For the Mentor PFF mentors are greatly appreciated and serve an important role in the PFF experience. Service as a mentor is recognized through a modest honorarium following the completion of the mentoring experience. The following guidelines pertain to mentor responsibilities: The mentor should collaborate with the student on the mentorship agreement contract, and the mentor must sign the contract. Upon completion of the mentorship experience, the mentor must review, sign, and complete the assessment portion of the Mentoring Log & Assessment and must submit the forms to gradpff@uc.edu. These forms are required in order for the student to complete the certificate, and the mentor will not be paid until these forms have been submitted. If the mentor is not a UC employee, the mentor must complete a Personal Services Contract form and a Certification of Completed Mentorship form, which are required to process the mentor's honorarium. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top