Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Urban Policy Academic Year: 2021-22 Department or Program: Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Affiliated Departments: Architecture Address: Robertson Hall Phone: 609-258-2109 Website: Urban Policy Program offerings: Certificate Director of Graduate Studies UP Certificate Faculty Advisor Patricia Kirkland Graduate Program Administrator Abby Stern Cardinale Overview The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) offers a certificate in Urban Policy (UP), primarily for its own master's students, but graduate students from other Princeton departments are eligible to earn the certificate. The policy focus is global, and the coursework is grounded in the interdisciplinary and comparative study of cities and urban problems in both advanced industrialized and developing countries. The UP certificate emphasizes the social, economic and political dimensions of urban problems and is designed to prepare students for careers in urban policy analysis and economic development in national, state and local governments, nonprofit organizations, think tanks and international organizations. The certificate does not appear on the official transcript. Certificate Certificate Requirements: Program Description: The UP certificate requires two core courses: SPI 537, Urban Inequality and Social Policy; and SPI 538, Urban Economics. When one of these courses is not offered in a given academic year, an approved substitute is designated. A list of approved electives is made available at the beginning of each academic year. Two half-term courses count as one elective. UP certificate students are encouraged to take SPI 539, Urban Politics and Policymaking. If a SPIA student takes a policy workshop with significant urban content, it can be counted as an elective toward the certificate. Students who wish to count one non-SPIA course toward the certificate requirements must seek advance permission from the UP certificate faculty advisor. Fields of Study Fields of Study Menu Divisions Contacts Degree Requirements Degree Deadlines Course Information Enrollment Statuses Teaching (AI) Information Nondegree Student Categories Academic and Research Integrity Opportunities and Resources Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University