Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home Faculty and Staff Graduate Advisor Resources Regulations and Procedures Post Docs Search UC Riverside Graduate Division Promoting Graduate Education Search Home Dean's Welcome Contact Us COGD 2022 Supporting Graduate Students Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Admissions Overview Why UC Riverside? University Policies Deadlines Requirements Admission Requirements International Academic Records Returning & Continuing Students Apply Online Application How to Apply Fee Waivers Other Ways To Attend Accepting Your Offer Accepting Your Offer GradEdge/JumpStart Transcripts for Admitted Students FAQ Current Students Graduation Procedures Petitions and Forms Dissertation and Thesis Submission Regulations and Procedures Commencement Need Help? Funding Fellowships, Awards, and Grants Resources for Finding External Funding Employment Graduate Student Employment Academic Student Employees (ASE) Graduate Student Researcher (GSR) Resources and Policies GradSuccess Academic Preparation Research Ethics UCR Home Faculty and Staff Graduate Advisor Resources Regulations and Procedures Post Docs Welcome Back! Graduate Division Front Office open Monday - Friday, 8am-12pm & 1pm-5pm Find Your Path Explore our programs for undergrads interested in graduate school Preparation and Outreach Professional Development Build your skills and discover diverse career pathways GradSuccess Applying to Graduate School Find your program and submit an application Apply Now Learn to conduct your research as part of a community of practice An NSF funded research project undertaken by the Graduate Division evaluated a novel, discourse-based ethics training developed at UCR, with the goal of empowering all lab participants to routinely engage in conversations about appropriate, ethical and justifiable research practices, and to become part of a community of practice. Click below to learn more. Research Ethics Graduate Open House October 2022 Click here for more information (coming soon) Support UCR's competitor Claire Whitaker at the UC wide Grad Slam on May 6th Livestream the final event or join us at the Genomics Auditorium to view the live stream on May 6th at 11 am. You will have the chance to vote for an audience choice winner. #GradSlam Live stream the final Meet with fellow grad students in a supportive and enriching environment. More Information about Get Connected Previous Next Empowering engagement in an inclusive and collaborative research community The UCR Graduate Division oversees graduate recruitment, admissions, academic affairs, fellowships, grants, employment, and mentoring. Our team provides a range of services to support graduate student success from the beginning of their graduate career, through the duration of their program at UCR, and beyond their degree completion. Apply Now Funding Opportunities Contact Us GradSuccess GradSuccess supports graduate student retention, degree completion, and post-degree career outcomes through a diverse range of programs, events, expert consultations, and peer support. As graduate students, you are the engine of a research university, and GradSuccess is your fuel. Learn More A Message From the Dean Shaun Bowler, Dean of the Graduate Division UCR’s commitment to our students is seen in programs such as Grad Success, which provides professional development opportunities for all students at the graduate level. You will see, for example, programs aimed at helping to improve teaching skills as well as programs to help with writing skills. Our faculty also exhibits this commitment to the professional development of our students. UC Riverside has always been known for the quality of its teaching and the accessibility of its faculty. The campus prides itself on the close collegial relations between graduate students and their mentors. UCR's faculty strive to provide our graduate students with rigorous academic training and instruction in the best professional practices to equip them in every way for success in their careers. In the past few years, UC Riverside has hired many new, outstanding faculty, increased the number and size of the graduate programs, established new programs, and invested in new research. While continuing to emphasize our already world-renowned programs, we are also working innovatively across disciplinary boundaries. UCR's programs are well known for their quality of research and for their creative and innovative approaches to their subject matter. Whatever your chosen discipline, UC Riverside is an exciting and intellectually stimulating place to be. And, as the most diverse campus in the UC system, it has a deserved reputation for being open and welcoming as we prepare our students for the global 21st century. Shaun Bowler Dean of the Graduate Division Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Students are drawn to UCR because our graduate population is more diverse than most, because they want to work with our diverse undergraduate population, and because they will be mentored by faculty members who are committed to diversity and inclusion and who identify as belonging to a group that is underrepresented in their fields. Statement of Solidarity 23 Interdisciplinary Research Centers 55 Master's Programs 42 Doctoral Programs World Class Faculty There is amazing research going on at UCR. July 22, 2021 Study evaluates Inland Empire transgender and gender nonconforming patients’ experiences Focus groups led by University of California, Riverside, scientists that examined the healthcare experiences of transgender and gender-nonconforming, or TGNC, people living in California’s Inland Empire have found that this community often encounters obstacles that are unique and not faced... Read More » July 22, 2021 Will Brillouin spectroscopy become as indispensable for science as Raman spectroscopy? Raman spectroscopy, which measures the energy of crystal lattice vibrations in the Terahertz frequency range, has become essential for advanced scientific research and practical applications. In the physical sciences, Raman spectroscopy helps determine the crystalline quality of materials and identify... Read More » Students Say... UC Riverside not only holds the most diverse student body of any University of California, which created a diverse and friendly atmosphere that enabled me to thrive as a first generation and migrant scholar. At the same time, Graduate Division, through Grad Success, provides graduate students with various forms of student support, professional development, and wellness programs that enhance the lives and scholarly development of graduate students across all departments. Alan Alexander Malfavon Graduate, 2021" Recent News March 11, 2022 Fruit fungus for the win at Grad Slam UC Riverside’s winner, Claire Whitaker, moves onto the UC-level competition in May. Read More » February 23, 2022 50 years of Black and Chicano/Latino histories at UCR African Student Programs, Chicano Student Programs celebrate a milestone on campus. At the center of it is student success. Read More » February 17, 2022 UCR offers new research internship for community college transfers Grant-funded program includes a $5,000 stipend for participants. Read More » October 20, 2021 Science communication competition — it’s on! Graduate and undergraduate students in STEM fields are encouraged to participate in this inaugural multimedia event. Read More » More News Support Graduate Education Your donation provides financial support and professional development opportunities for graduate students campus-wide. Invest in the Future Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Graduate Division University Office Building Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-4302 fax: (951) 827-2238 email: graddiv@ucr.edu Find Us Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel