Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs BioMed: Biotechnology A.M. Sc.M. division Division of Biology & Medicine Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The graduate program is designed for students interested in a range of topics related to the field of biotechnology including drug and gene delivery, prosthetic devices, cancer therapeutics, vascular grafts, tissue engineering, disease diagnostic assays and bioartificial organs. The Division of Biology and Medicine offers an Sc.M. and A.M. degree in Biotechnology. The graduate program is offered by the Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology and Biotechnology and is designed for students interested in a range of topics related to the field of biotechnology, including drug and gene delivery, prosthetic devices, cancer therapeutics, vascular grafts, tissue engineering, disease diagnostic assays and bioartificial organs. Admission Information Inquire Apply Brown students may enter via the 5th Year Master’s Program or as outside students into the standard Master’s degree track. The Program offers students maximum flexibility including thesis (Sc.M.) and non-thesis degree options (A.M.), a part-time track, a management track option, and co-op program. Open to students with appropriate backgrounds in biology, biochemistry, physics, engineering, or chemistry. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Letters of Recommendations: 3 letters of recommendation Additional Requirements: Proficiency in English is expected. Must fill out graduate school application and indicate interest in Biotechnology Masters Program. Application Deadlines: Spring 2022: November 15 Fall 2022: April 15 Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline November 15, 2021 5th Year Deadline May 15, 2022 Completion Requirements A minimum of 8 tuition units are required. Must receive a grade of B or better, courses must be taken for a grade rather than credit/no credit. A maximum of one post-graduate course may be transferable, but approval of Program Director is required. Program Director endorses the student’s proposed curriculum. Alumni Outcomes Learn More Leadership Chair Wayne Bowen Wayne_Bowen@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Jacquelyn Schell jacquelyn_schell@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Biotechnology Mailing Address Brown University Box G-B 393 BioTech@Brown.edu Visit the Department of Biotechnology Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Program Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BioMed: Biotechnology Open details for BioMed: Biotechnology Bookmark this Page