Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Financial Assistance > Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research and Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage The University of Tulsa Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Program provides assistance for graduate students to present their scholarship in a national or international forum to enhance the student’s career opportunities. We encourage you to contact the Graduate School Staff for more information about scholarship awards at grad@utulsa.edu or by phone at 918-631-2336. Objective The University of Tulsa Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Program provides financial assistance for graduate students to present their scholarship in a national or international forum and to enhance the student’s career opportunities. These are competitive awards; not all applicants receive one. Eligibility Any enrolled graduate student who is first author on an abstract and presenting research conducted at The University of Tulsa during their graduate program may apply. Enrolled students entering works in juried exhibitions are also eligible for support. The applicant must be enrolled at the time of the presentation (with the exception of summer), and the presentation must be prior to the applicant’s graduation. All students are expected to have previous experience presenting either on campus or at a national or international professional meeting prior to receiving a Chapman Scholars Presentation Award. Appropriate on-campus experience includes a presentation given in the Annual Student Research Colloquium, in a departmental brown bag seminar, to a research advisory board, in a departmental symposium, or similar events. A classroom presentation for coursework is not deemed adequate. It is highly recommended that students participate in the Annual Student Research Colloquium which is held each Spring. Presentations given in this forum are intended to improve students’ oral presentation skills and assist them with explaining their research to people outside of their discipline. Preference will be given to: Students in the final semesters of their degree program. For most graduate students, the summation of their graduate research for a scholarly presentation usually occurs during the last two semesters of their degree program; and presentations at professional meetings are usually helpful in the acquisition of (or at least interviewing for) jobs. Doctoral students giving oral presentations. Students who have previously presented at the Annual Student Research Colloquium. Application Deadline Completed applications with all required signatures must be submitted to the Graduate School (Lorton Hall, Room 201). Applications for support during an academic year must be submitted by the end of the second week of classes during the fall or spring semesters. Fall applications are for presentations from September 1 – March 31; spring applications are for presentations from February 1 – October 31. Applications may be considered after the deadline, but only if there are extenuating circumstances. The student may submit a Petition for Exception. Application All requests for support must be made using the Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Award Application form. The applicant must enclose a detailed budget, a copy of the abstract, a copy of the acceptance letter of the paper for the professional meeting, and a letter of recommendation by the adviser. Completed application forms must be signed by the graduate program adviser. If an acceptance letter is not available at the time of application, a student may still apply by the application deadline by attaching a copy of the transmittal letter sent with submission of the abstract. No funds will be released until a copy of the acceptance letter is submitted. Budget Submit a detailed budget that clearly lists each estimated cost associated with the scholarly presentation. Eligible expenses include round trip airfare or mileage ($0.575/mile), hotel cost, food (a maximum of $37.50 first and last day, and $50 for the other days), conference fees and Uber/Lyft transportation costs. Size of Grant A student may submit more than one proposal, but will receive no more than $1000 as a master’s degree student and $1500 as a doctoral degree student while enrolled at a specific academic level. Petition for Exception If an application does not meet the above guidelines, including poster presentations by doctoral students, the student may petition for an exception by submitting the petition in writing to the Graduate Dean. The petition should explain in detail any extenuating circumstances and must be approved and signed by the advisor. The advisor’s letter must address the extenuating circumstances including doctoral students giving poster presentations. Reporting Requirements Within 30 days following travel, a statement explaining how this opportunity was useful to the Chapman Graduate Scholar’s career objectives must be submitted with the expense report and original receipts. Requests for reimbursement submitted more than 30 days after travel may not be approved (University policy). The travel reimbursement form see: https://graduate.utulsa.edu/financial-assistance/research-and-travel-grants/ will need to be submitted along with original receipts (taped to a clean white piece of paper) and a copy of the conference agenda. Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Award Application 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT