Rutgers Home New Brunswick RBHS Newark Camden Online University Search Search: Contact Us Apply Now Home About Us About Us Contact Us Diversity Advantage Frequently Asked Questions Explore Programs Explore Programs Search Programs Apply Overview Before You Apply Application Guidelines Apply Now Supporting Materials Check Your Status Admitted! What's Next? Forms Financial Support Financial Information Fellowships Graduate Schools Events Upcoming Events Information for Prospective Students International Students COVID-19 Notice Visiting Admissions Offices The University is committed to helping slow the spread of COVID-19. We encourage applicants to use the contact form for your campus and try to avoid visiting admissions offices in person. Thank you for you cooperation during this current public health emergency. Supporting Materials We encourage you to upload credentials such as unofficial transcripts, resumes, and writing samples electronically by logging into your application portal or, if you submitted a legacy application, by visiting the supporting materials website. GRE and TOEFL At-Home Online Testing ETS has announced that the GRE general test and the TOEFL test are now available for students to take online at home. The at-home solution is only available in certain countries. For a full explanation of the registration process, visit www.ets.org/s/cv/toefl/at-home/ for the TOEFL iBT test and www.ets.org/s/cv/gre/at-home/ for the GRE General Test. Programs in Focus Biomedical and Health Sciences Programs at Rutgers Rutgers offers advanced study in a wide range of medical, dental, and health sciences programs, such as medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, public health, nursing, allied health careers and many more. Admissions for many programs are managed through the schools. Learn more > Requesting Official Transcripts Electronically Your program may require official transcripts in order to review your application. However, many programs can review your application with unofficial transcripts and will request official transcripts only if you are admitted. You can upload your unofficial transcripts by logging into your application portal. If your institution is a sending member of Parchment, eScrip-Safe, or National Student Clearinghouse, Rutgers will be able to receive your official transcripts electronically. We also accept official electronic transcripts from India sent via TrueCopy Credentials. Applicants from Chinese institutions should request and submit official transcripts directly through CHESICC. Requests are processed by CHESICC and will be sent electronically to the admissions office. You will not need to submit a paper copy of your transcript. Visit CHESICC to get started. If your institution's e-transcript provider requires an email address in order to send your official transcript electronically to Graduate Admissions, you can provide them with an email address from the list below: Graduate Admissions - Camden e-transcripts@camden.rutgers.edu Graduate Admissions - New Brunswick e-transcripts@gradadm.rutgers.edu Graduate Admissions - Newark transcripts_nwk@gradadm.rutgers.edu Graduate Admissions - Rutgers Business School Newark/New Brunswick transcripts_rbs@gradadm.rutgers.edu Graduate Admissions - School of Nursing transcripts_nursing@gradadm.rutgers.edu Graduate Admissions - School of Health Professions transcripts_shrp@gradadm.rutgers.edu Welcome to Graduate Study at Rutgers Programs are offered at the campuses in New Brunswick, Newark, and Camden. You can study on campus and off campus. And we have online programs. Explore your options by field of study, school, location, and degree. Find out the requirements and deadlines for applying. Use our online application to complete the process. We are here to help you through all of it. So start now! Learn about the many graduate and professional programs. Explore the Rutgers program database. Already know what degree you want to pursue? Learn about the requirements and deadlines. Ready to apply? Read about what to expect before you start and while you are online. Trying to finish up your application? Log in to upload your supporting materials. Application complete? Everything has been submitted. Check your status. You have been admitted. Congratulations! What should you do next? Upcoming Events May 31, 2022 Rutgers Master of Business and Science Informational Webinar May 31, 2022 SON Individual Appointments: Leadership (Master's and DNP Programs) - (5/31/22) May 31, 2022 SON Meet the Specialty Director: Nursing Leadership (Master’s and DNP Programs) Application Portal Create Account Log In to Your Account Pay Application Fee Upload Documents Check Your Status Apply to Another Program Legacy Application Links Check Your Status Upload Supporting Materials Feedback | Site Map | Graduate Admissions: New Brunswick | Newark | Camden Copyright © 2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. Site Map | Contact RU-info at 732-445-info (4636) | Ask Colonel Henry or text "Rutgers" to 66746. | Follow us on: