Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Student Funding and Support Search Menu Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us Search Graduate Student Funding and Support Financial Support for Master’s Students Financial Support for Master’s Students Students in master’s degree programs are offered a range of financial support that varies by academic program. The majority of students enrolled in master’s programs and engaged in non-degree study are self-supported. For information about financial support for a particular master’s program, contact the program’s director of graduate study. Contact information for Specific Master’s Programs Tuition and Fee Schedule 2022-2023 Additional Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Federal loans are available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Private Educational Loans Private educational loans are available to domestic and international graduate students. Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants We offer resources for graduate students researching scholarships, fellowships and grant opportunities. Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Brown continues its commitment to veterans by collaborating with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on the Post 9/11 GI Bill and the Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program. Learn About Veteran Benefits Special Circumstances Loan Eligibility Appeals If you wish to appeal your departmental funding or have special financial circumstances, we suggest contacting your program directly. Visit Page Open details for Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence If you are considering a leave of absence, review the Leavetaking Considerations checklist and meet with offices that may assist you as you weigh your decision. Visit Page Open details for Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds The University has a fair and equitable refund policy for recipients of federal student aid. Visit Page Open details for Withdrawals and Refunds Additional Information Financial Aid Basics Learn about allowances for personal expenses and details for special circumstances like loan eligibility appeals, leaves of absences, and withdrawals and refunds. Estimators & Calculators These tools help students estimate and calculate costs, billing and loan repayment. Contact Us Learn the business hours, phone number and address for the Office of Financial Aid. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Ph.D. Students Master’s Students Contact Information for Master’s Programs Estimate Cost & Aid Basics Loan Eligibility Appeals Leaves of Absence Withdrawals and Refunds Fee Waiver and Reduction Paying for Books, Travel and Personal Expenses Types of Aid Federal Student Aid Fellowships, Scholarships and Grants Graduate Student Veteran Benefits Private Educational Loans Emergency and Miscellaneous Funding Undergraduate Info Contact Us This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Financial Support for Master’s Students Open details for Financial Support for Master’s Students Bookmark this Page