Skip to Main Main menu About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Events Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Spotlight News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Our Staff Statistics Governance Honorific Fellowship Awards Graduate School Teaching Awards FAQs History Carillon Learn to Play Meet the Carilloneur Requests and Mailing Lists Videos Meet the Carillonneur carillon4.jpg In September 2012, Princeton University named its 4th University Carillonneur, Lisa J. Lonie. She is the first female to hold the position in the carillon’s +85 year history. Lisa began her carillon studies as a teenager with Frank Law, carillonneur at the Washington Memorial National Carillon in Valley Forge, PA. She is a carillonneur member of the Guild of Carillonneurs in North America (GCNA), former juror and chair of the Carillonneur Examinations Committee, and has served on its Board of Directors. She currently serves on the Music Heritage committee of the GCNA. Ms. Lonie is also the carillonneur St. Thomas' Church, Whitemarsh (Pennsylvania), and at The Church of the Holy Trinity (Philadelphia) which houses the oldest carillon (1882) in North America. She’s also a regional carillon instructor for the North American Carillon School, an affiliate of The Royal Carillon School “Jef Denyn” of Mechelen, Belgium. Known for her musical wit and creative programming, Ms. Lonie has performed in internationally acclaimed carillon festivals, conferences, as well as for several national congresses of the GCNA. Ms. Lonie is one of the featured performers on the CD recording, “Princeton Carillon, Class of 1892” and on the NBC television special "Ringing in the Holidays at Longwood Gardens." Over 5,000 copies of her CD, The Bells of Christmas at Longwood Gardens, have been sold. Lisa is a graduate of the Pennsylvania State University with dual degrees in German and Economics. Besides her musical interests, she is the Executive Assistant to the President of Salus University. Contact Lisa Lonie. Our Staff Statistics Governance Honorific Fellowship Awards Graduate School Teaching Awards FAQs History Carillon Learn to Play Meet the Carilloneur Requests and Mailing Lists Videos Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544 Contact: gs@princeton.edu Twitter Instagram Facebook Princeton University Accessibility ©2022 The Trustees of Princeton University