Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Public Health and Public Affairs Dual Degree MPA MPH school School of Public Health Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The MPH/MPA Dual-Degree Program is a highly rigorous program for students who are intellectually curious, highly motivated, and committed to the study of public health and public policy. The School of Public Health and the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs offer the Master of Public Health (MPH) and Master of Public Affairs (MPA) dual degree program. Students from a variety of backgrounds and fields of study are encouraged to apply. Emphasizing a learning-by-doing approach, this rigorous program will offer highly-qualified applicants the opportunity to gain training in public health and public policy to prepare them to address critical health policy issues in the United States and throughout the world. Admission Information Apply Applicants to the MPH/MPA dual degree program should apply via SOPHAS, a centralized application service used by the Brown University School of Public Health. Students from a variety of backgrounds and fields of study are welcome to apply; applications will be reviewed by Dual Degree Admissions Committee. Please visit the MPH admissions website for application deadlines and additional admissions information. Comprehensive application requirements are detailed on the School of Public Health's admissions requirements website. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required Official Transcripts: Required Letters of Recommendations: Letters of Recommendation (3) Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Requirements: Application Fee International Applicants: Language Proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS if applicable) Transcript Evaluation (if applicable) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 15, 2022 Financial Aid Merit–based scholarships are awarded to qualified, eligible candidates. Student loans are available through the Office of Financial Aid to eligible applicants who submit the FAFSA. Completion Requirements The dual–degree degree program begins in the summer and includes 20 courses (14 full courses and 6 half courses) as well as an internship and a Master's level thesis. Students will benefit from the rich academic resources at the Watson Institute and the School of Public Health, as well as their extensive applied learning programs in Rhode Island, as well as throughout the United States and the world. The program can be completed in two years, though students can extend the program over a longer period of time. All degree requirements must be met within a five–year period. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Director of Graduate Study Annie Gjelsvik (MPH) annie_gjelsvik@brown.edu Director of Graduate Study Susan Moffitt (MPA) susan_moffitt@brown.edu Contact and Location School of Public Health Mailing Address Brown University Box G-S121, 4th Floor elizabeth_jackvony@brown.edu 401-863-7592 Visit the School of Public Health Resources Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Related Academic Areas School of Public Health Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Public Health and Public Affairs Dual Degree Open details for Public Health and Public Affairs Dual Degree Bookmark this Page