Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Explore the University of Kansas Across campuses and disciplines, in classrooms and laboratories, graduate Jayhawks inspire each other forward. Where we are Lawrence Our flagship campus stands atop a hill overlooking the forested hills of Lawrence, a city of 100,000 and a historic hub of culture and progressive change. There’s no other place — in Kansas or elsewhere — quite like our original hometown. Explore Lawrence Our campuses KU’s reach stretches across Kansas. We’ve grown from a single campus in Lawrence to five, including the Edwards Campus in Overland Park and medical branches in Kansas City, Wichita, and Salina. Together, we’re changing the world for the better. Visit us, in person or virtually We always encourage students to visit campus or connect virtually with KU staff or faculty. Email Graduate Admissions to coordinate your next visit experience. Email us Academics In pursuit of graduate degrees and certificates, students conduct innovative research and gain hands-on experience with leading experts. Learn more Student life Jayhawks find their place in a community of scholars, with campus resources and support at every point along their degree path. Learn more Explore your housing options Practical considerations like housing and living arrangements factor into your grad school decision. The following guide offers an honest, in-depth look at housing options in Lawrence and covers important details like affordability, location, and amenities. Go to the guide Get started Ready to start the conversation with KU? Begin the application process or sign up for our email list. Apply Apply Request info Request info graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.