Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home About Us : All News All News UT Austin Master’s Alumna Wins Pulitzer Prize in History May 17, 2022 UT Austin History alumna Ada Ferrer (M.A., ’88) has been awarded the 2022 Pulitzer Prize in history for her book “Cuba: An American History,” a study of Cuba and its complex ties to the United States. Earlier this year, the book also won the Los Angeles Book Prize in History. Read more about UT Austin Master’s Alumna Wins Pulitzer Prize in History Graduate School Announces 2022 Award Winners May 4, 2022 The Graduate School has announced the 2022 winners of its professional and student awards. The awards recognize excellence in graduate academics, teaching and professional services. The winners represent a diverse community of students, scholars, teachers and administrators at the university. Read more about Graduate School Announces 2022 Award Winners Grad Students Play Key Role in the Development of COVID-19 Vaccine Feb. 11, 2022 As the world began to lock down in the early months of 2020 at the onset of COVID-19, researchers in the McLellan Lab at The University of Texas at Austin were furiously at work. Read more about Grad Students Play Key Role in the Development of COVID-19 Vaccine Campus Resources & Spring Updates for Grad Students Feb. 2, 2022 Dear Graduate Students: I’d like to welcome you back to campus for the spring semester and provide some updates as in-person classes resume. I know that we still face many uncertainties about the course of the pandemic, but I appreciate your continued dedication to scholarship, research and teaching at the university. Read more about Campus Resources & Spring Updates for Grad Students Michener Fellow’s Novel Named Oprah Book Club Selection Jan. 27, 2022 When Nathan Harris arrived at the Michener Center for Writers, he had already begun writing his now best-selling novel, “The Sweetness of Water.” As a Michener Fellow, Harris spent his time in the program finishing and refining it with the encouragement and feedback from faculty members and fellow students. By the start of his third year, he had made the novel his dissertation and secured a book deal. Read more about Michener Fellow’s Novel Named Oprah Book Club Selection New Dissertation, Treatise, Thesis and Report Formatting Guidelines and Templates Jan. 25, 2022 Student Services has revised the Formatting Guidelines for Dissertations, Treatises, Theses and Reports and updated the templates with input from and the approval of the Administrative Committee of the Graduate Assembly. Read more about New Dissertation, Treatise, Thesis and Report Formatting Guidelines and Templates Mental Health Resources for Graduate Students Dec. 9, 2021 It is extremely important to exercise self-care and maintain positive mental health and wellbeing. Toward this end, we would like to make you aware of the mental health resources available to all UT students, including graduate students. Read more about Mental Health Resources for Graduate Students Looking and Listening in Machine Learning Nov. 18, 2021 Seeing is not always believing—at least not for Ph.D. alumnus Ruohan Gao, whose research in machine learning uses senses beyond just sight to inform artificial intelligence. Gao’s work investigates how algorithms locate and understand audio-emitting objects when multiple sound sources are present. While conventional approaches to object identification in unsupervised machine learning rely solely upon visual cues, Gao’s work leverages audio as a semantic signal to disentangle object sounds in unlabeled video. Read more about Looking and Listening in Machine Learning Nutritional Sciences Ph.D. Student Wins Three Minute Thesis Competition Nov. 16, 2021 On Nov. 12, 2021, Nutritional Science Ph.D. student Vasavi Shabrish won first place in the final round of The Graduate School’s Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition at UT. Shabrish’s presentation “Strategies to Improve Health Outcomes in Shift Work” earned her a $1,000 prize and the opportunity to advance to the regional 3MT competition in February. Read more about Nutritional Sciences Ph.D. Student Wins Three Minute Thesis Competition Watch The Three Minute Thesis Competition Live Nov. 9, 2021 You are invited to watch The University of Texas at Austin's Three Minute Thesis (3MT) on Friday, Nov. 12, 2021 at 10 a.m. 3MT is a competition that helps graduate students cultivate the skills to communicate academic and research concepts to general audiences. Participating students use approachable language and concepts to explain their research in three minutes or less to a panel of judges. Read more about Watch The Three Minute Thesis Competition Live 1 2 3 4 5 6 next › last » News Tags Grad Student Feature (19) Message from the Dean (27) News (41) Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022