Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Professional Development » Individual Development Plans Set Navigation title in component Individual Development Plans Preparing Future Faculty Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis About 3MT Application Schedule Winners 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops Past Workshops PD Courses UC Development Resources Individual Development Plans (IDPs) What is an IDP? When should I create an IDP? How do I get started? What comes next? Who do I go to with questions? Forms and resources Quick start: download the UC Graduate School Individual Development Plan form (docx) With all the time you put into your academics and research, how much time do you spend planning how to leverage your experience into a career? Not all students and postdocs get the same level of guidance when it comes to career advising and developing skills necessary for the workplace. And while students can take advantage of numerous professional development opportunities, they rarely get advice on which opportunities will be most helpful for them. This is where an Individual Development Plan comes in. What is an IDP? The purpose of an Individual Development Plan (IDP) is to “explore career possibilities and set goals to follow the career path that fits you best” (as defined by Science Careers’ myIDP website). As part of creating your IDP, you’ll assess your skill set in terms of your career goals. Assessing your skills means taking a realistic look at your current abilities. Ask your professors, friends, lab mates, work supervisor, family and colleagues to evaluate your strengths and the areas you need to develop. With that information in hand, you can create a plan to develop the skills and proficiencies you need for your career of interest. Even if you have no idea what you want your future career to be, that’s OK! Part of the purpose of an IDP is to start thinking about the career options for your discipline and evaluate which options would be a good fit for your skills, traits and work style. When should I create an IDP? You should start now. The point of an IDP is to guide your professional development. So, as you grow and develop, your IDP will, too. At the very least, you should evaluate your IDP once a year: Have my career goals changed? Is there a new career I’d like to investigate? Are there new opportunities out there I can leverage? Where do my skills stand? Given my changing career goals, what skills or competencies should I develop? So even this is your first year of graduate education, you can start the process of exploring career possibilities and developing key skills. Keep in mind that you can always work on developing soft skills, as these skills will make you stand out in an interview and shine in any workplace. Next year, with a better idea of what career you do (or do not) want to pursue and some specific feedback from your professors, you can update your IDP with a more concrete plan. How do I get started? If you're early on in your academic program, jump start your self-assessment with the Graduate School's Career Skills Assessment (docx) and Career Values Assessment (docx) worksheets. If you've already passed candidacy, begin by taking one of two online assessments, based on your field (myIDP for Biological and Physical Sciences or ImaginePhD for Humanities and Social Sciences). The self-assessment will help you reflect on your skills, interests, and values. Based on your results, use the Graduate School's IDP form (docx) to develop and write your goals. There are six categories of goals listed on the attached document. You may or may not write goals in each area. You may write more than one goal in a specific area. You should write your goals based on your individual skills, interests, and values in the areas you need to develop more and even areas of strength. Schedule a meeting with a trusted advisor or mentor to discuss your initial draft and to get feedback to help you hone your goals and career plans. Meet with your advisor/mentor and talk through your IDP. Ask them to provide some assessment of your skills and goals. Are your goals and timeframes realistic and attainable? Are you missing anything? Ask them to help you prioritize your goals. What should you be working on now and what is really a future goal? Optional: Share your IDP with other faculty and/or more senior graduate students to get additional feedback and advice. Revise your IDP as needed from your meeting(s). Share your revised IDP with your advisor/mentor and have them sign it. Sign it yourself. Put your IDP into action! Follow the steps in your plan. Start making progress on achieving your goals. What comes next? You should review and revise your IDP at least once a year. What progress have you made on your goals? Has anything changed in regards to your career plans? What new goals should be set for next semester/the upcoming academic year? Do any goals need to be revised or changed? Update your IDP, being sure to note the progress you have made, and revise/change/add goals as appropriate. Share your updated IDP with your advisor/mentor and meet to get feedback. Both you and your advisor/mentor should sign the IDP after each review. Who do I go to with questions? Do you have questions about the IDP process? Email Virginia Dennis, student services program manager for the Graduate School. Forms and Resources Individual Development Plan form (docx) Self-assessment worksheets: Career Skills Assessment (docx) and Career Values Assessment (docx) Online assessments: myIDP (for Biological and Physical Sciences) and ImaginePhD (for Humanities and Social Sciences) Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top