Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Religious Studies Ph.D. department Graduate School department Religious Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Department of Religious Studies maintains exceptional strength in the study of religion in antiquity, Asian religions, modern religious thought and the theoretical study of religion. The graduate program in Religious Studies at Brown is one of the finest in the nation. From among a large pool of highly qualified applicants, the department admits four to six doctoral students a year. Current graduate students have distinguished themselves by publishing, presenting papers at international conferences, and earning recognition and support from prestigious external funding organizations. Department's graduates have an excellent placement record, teaching in such institutions as Harvard, Stanford, Indiana University, University of California, Brooklyn College, Reed College, Haverford, Rice University, University of Washington - St. Louis, and University of Wisconsin (Madison). We offer Ph.D. studies in four areas: Asian Religious Traditions (ART) Islam Society and Culture (ISC) Religion and Critical Thought (RCT) Religions of the Ancient Mediterranean (RAM) (including Ancient Judaism, early Christianity, early Islam, and numerous others) Additional Resources The department maintains close working relationships with other Brown departments. Students often supplement their work with courses in history, anthropology, classics, philosophy, political science, sociology, Judaic studies, East Asian studies, art history, comparative literature, and the Institute for Archeology and the Ancient World. Through the University exchange program students may also take courses at other local universities. A monthly seminar, Culture and Religion in the Ancient Mediterranean, brings together students and faculty from across the University. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (of 25 pages or less). Some tracks also require previous language study. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 5, 2022 Completion Requirements All areas require three years (six semesters) of full–time study beyond the baccalaureate degree, including RS200; reading competence of at least two scholarly languages (typically French and German, depending on the track) and relevant other languages; preliminary examination; dissertation; oral defense; one year of teaching experience. Tracks also have additional specific requirements: for details, see the Religious Studies website and the Graduate Handbook. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Mark Cladis Mark_Cladis@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Stephen Bush stephen_bush@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Religious Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1927 Nicole_Vadnais@brown.edu 401-863-3104 Visit the Department of Religious Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Religious Studies Open details for Religious Studies Bookmark this Page