Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Finances : Fellowships ConTex Doctoral Fellowship ConTex Doctoral Fellowship About ConTex The ConTex office was established by the University of Texas System to support a program of cooperation with Mexico's National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT). This new program will expand current collaboration with CONACYT and many other first-rate academic institutions in Mexico. ConTex will be a model of international collaboration connecting Texas with one of the most important trade partners of the United States. It will support bilateral efforts to enhance academic and research cooperation between Texas and Mexico. ConTex Doctoral Fellowships A key feature of the program is 5-years of support for Ph.D. students. Funding for selected Ph.D. students will include tuition, a monthly stipend of $1,100, and health insurance costs for up to five years – four years from CONACYT and one year of funding provided by the UT System. Eligible students from Mexico must first apply and be admitted to a UT Ph.D. program and then can contact ConTex and apply for funding. Preference may be given to high priority areas of study and a supplement to the stipend may be needed depending on college/school requirements. Unknown.png Invitation to Apply from President Fenves UT System Contex Website & Application Vice President of Research ConTex Office Guadalupe Carmona, Ph.D. Executive Director University of Texas at San Antonio Address: One UTSA Circle, San Antonia, TX 78249 Phone: (210) 458-7240 Email: guadalupe.carmona@utsa.edu Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022