Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > About > Office of the Dean Office of the Dean ABOUT Facilities Program Director & Selected Participating Faculty FAQs The Office of the Dean handles all matters related to recruitment, admission, enrollment, merit-based financial awards and graduation for graduate programs at The University of Tulsa. The deans and staff of the Graduate School are available to answer any of your questions related to graduate studies at TU. The Graduate School office is located in Lorton Hall, Room 201 and is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. General questions or inquiries should be directed to 918-631-2336 or 800-882-4723, or emailed to grad@utulsa.edu. Vice Provost for Research and Dean of the Graduate School Brenton McLaury Professor of Mechanical Engineering 918-631-2999 brenton-mclaury@utulsa.edu Associate Dean of the Graduate School Lori Leonard Collins Professor of Computer Information Systems 918-631-2787 lori-leonard@utulsa.edu Staff Janet Bolois Graduate Student Award and Budget Adviser 918-631-2339 janet-bolois@utulsa.edu Genny Parker Director of Graduate School Admissions and Enrollment Management 918-631-3744 gmp8332@utulsa.edu Tawny Crone Graduate Recruitment Coordinator 918-631-2712 tawny-crone@utulsa.edu Caitlin Getchell Graduate School Academic Advisor 918-631-2686 caitlin-getchell@utulsa.edu Bonnie Medlicott Administrative Assistant 918-631-2336 bjm7300@utulsa.edu TBD Graduate Operations Coordinator 918-631-3744 Morgan Ardrey-Shumar Graduate Communications Coordinator 918-631-3297 mba1549@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT