Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Services & Resources Services & Resources Students at The University of Texas at Austin are supported by a wide range of services and resources. Career Resources The Graduate School has teamed up with university and external partners to provide and expand available career services and resources. Read More Events The university hosts events for faculty, staff, and prospective and current students alike. Read More Resource Guide to Mental Health Services for Graduate Students Resource Guide to Mental Health Services for Graduate Students and Graduate Programs. Download Now Graduate Student Organizations The Office of the Dean of Students offers services and assistance to the 1,300 student organizations on campus, including those especially for graduate students. Read More Resources for Graduate Student Families The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School recognizes that life events such as becoming a parent can interrupt a student’s academic career. The Graduate School is committed to supporting our students. Read More Housing Whether you want an apartment close to the university with an easy commute or a house in the suburbs with a yard for the kids, find a place to call home. Read More Climate Study of the Graduate School Read the results of a survey taken by graduate students on their satisfaction with the Gradatue School Read More Campus Services Counseling & Mental Health The university’s Counseling and Mental Health Center can help you manage the daily stresses and challenges of student life. Libraries, The Writing Center & Museums As a graduate student, you will be challenged to master a subject, to solve problems and to extend the boundaries of current knowledge. Get the materials and support essential to this endeavor. Health & Wellness The university offers many resources to keep you at your peak mentally and physically. Childcare There are a number of childcare options in Austin, and choosing between them can be daunting. Get help in finding one that meets your needs. Student Employment Conditions for Student Employment Learn about criteria for student employment at the university. Academic Employment Academic employment in teaching or research assistantships can provide important experience for graduate students. Non-Academic Employment Employment in a non-academic role at the university—or in the community—is an option for many graduate students. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022