Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Graduate School Grad right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Admission Criteria right arrow down arrow Application Fees Applying to Multiple Programs International Student Admission right arrow down arrow English Proficiency Requirement Important Information Key Terms Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Materials and Test Scores Transfer of Graduate Credits Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Before You Apply Application Process After You Apply International Students right arrow down arrow International Student Admission English Proficiency Requirement Transcript Submission Policy Application Status Future Students right arrow down arrow Conference & Fair Find a Graduate Program Funding Opportunities right arrow down arrow Graduate Assistantships Tuition Scholarships URM Scholarships Request More Info Tuition & Fees Virtual Visit Why Cincinnati Current Students right arrow down arrow New Students right arrow down arrow Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources right arrow down arrow Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities right arrow down arrow Dean's Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis right arrow down arrow Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching right arrow down arrow Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI right arrow down arrow Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program right arrow down arrow Fellows Programming History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information right arrow down arrow Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation right arrow down arrow Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News right arrow down arrow GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms right arrow down arrow Forms/Petitions Grievances Professional Development right arrow down arrow Preparing Future Faculty right arrow down arrow Why PFF? PFF Participation Tiers FAQs Apply Courses Workshops Reading Groups Mentorship Resources Legacy Program Three Minute Thesis right arrow down arrow About 3MT Application Schedule Winners right arrow down arrow 2020 Winners 2019 Winners 2018 Winners 2017 Winners 2016 Winners Workshops right arrow down arrow Past Workshops Individual Development Plans PD Courses UC Development Resources Faculty/Staff right arrow down arrow AdminCentral Contacts by Program Governance right arrow down arrow Program Approval Process right arrow down arrow New Degree Program New Dual Degree Program New Certificate Program New Track or Concentration Degree Title Change Online Delivery Request Degree Program Inactivation Curriculum Modification Graduate Council right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule and Minutes New Programs Committee Graduate Leadership Group right arrow down arrow Membership Roster Meeting Schedule Graduate Program Review Graduate Fellows Graduate Handbook right arrow down arrow Admissions right arrow down arrow Admissions Categories Application Process Dual Degree Programs Changing Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Certificate Programs International Student Admission International Students, General Information Financial Support right arrow down arrow Merit-Based Awards GIA/GAS Graduate Assistantships University Fellowships 174 Rule Taxation of Awards Exemption from OPERS, Medicare External Sources of Funding Federal Financial Aid Graduate Credit and Grades right arrow down arrow Credits Required to Earn a Graduate Degree Grading Maintaining Graduate Student Status right arrow down arrow Minimum Credits / Registration Requirements Full-Time Part-Time Reduced Course Load: International Students Program Requirements Minimum Academic Performance Maintaining Immigration Status Time to Degree Master's Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements, Candidacy Theses, Research Projects, Examinations Graduation Continuing to a Doctoral Program Doctoral Degree Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Credit Hour Requirements Residency Requirement Candidacy Dissertation Graduation Graduate Certificate Verification Graduation Ceremony Institutional Rules, Policies and Procedures right arrow down arrow Academic Dishonesty Student Code of Conduct Responsible Conduct of Research Restricted Research Individual Development Plans Grievance Procedures Board of Trustees Rules right arrow down arrow Admission Definition of a Graduate Student Graduate Credits Individualized Interdisciplinary Programs Minimum Academic Performance The Greater Cincinnati Consortium Master’s Degree Programs Doctoral Degree Programs Mentoring Award right arrow down arrow Award Winners Support for Editors right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients About Us right arrow down arrow Contact Us Graduate School Staff right arrow down arrow Chris Lewis Flavia Bastos Laura Dell Glossary of Terms Give The Graduate School » Current Students » Award Opportunities » Yates Fellowship Program Set Navigation title in component New Students Get to Know Cincinnati UC Lingo Grad Life & Student Resources Graduate Housing Options Safety Resources Critical Dates and Deadlines Award Opportunities Dean's Fellowship Fellowship Recipients Distinguished Dissertation Previous Nominees Distinguished Thesis Previous Nominees Excellence in Teaching Award Winners Excellence Scholarship GSG Awards GSHI Application Presidential Medal Provost Fellowship Fellows Programming Provost Recipients Yates Fellowship Program Fellows Programming Yates & PGF Gear History of the Yates Yates Recipients Dissertation/Thesis Information Required Page Order Formatting Guidelines FAQ Graduation Dissertation Defenses Doctoral Hooding Where Is My Diploma? News GradCURRENTS Archive Student Handbook Policies & Forms Forms/Petitions Grievances Albert C. Yates Fellowship Program The mission of the Albert C. Yates Fellowship Program at the University of Cincinnati is to enrich the educational environment for all graduate students by supporting the recruitment and retention of underrepresented minority groups who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents with high potential for academic success to graduate programs at the University of Cincinnati. The Graduate School provides 25 fellowships per year to incoming master's and doctoral students. This award requires program nomination; students cannot directly apply. It is strongly recommended, though, that students identify their eligibilty to their future program. (Please visit the program finder website for program contact information.) Application portfolios should be completed as early as possible in order for the applicant's program to evaluate their eligibility. Please contact the Yates Fellowship email (yates@uc.edu) with questions. Fellowship Benefits and Responsibilities The Yates Fellowship Program provides stipend funding for fellows, which is spread over multiple years and is in addition to any funding provided by the graduate program. Doctoral students receive a total of $25,000 in stipend funds from the Yates Fellowship Program, and master's students receive $20,000. The nominating graduate program determines the disbursement schedule for these funds. As part of nominating a student for the Yates Fellowship Program, the graduate program devises a mentoring and academic support plan for the applicant. All Yates fellows enter their graduate program with a designated "Yates mentor" and a clear plan to support the fellow from matriculation to graduation. First year fellows are required to attend monthly professional development meetings with their fellow Yates and Provost Graduate Fellows (class schedule permitting). The first required meeting will be a half-day fellowship orientation, prior to the start of fall classes. The Yates Fellowship Program also hosts social events to allow fellows to get to know and network with each other in a more casual setting. (These social events are optional to attend.) First year fellows are also required to complete and submit an Individual Development Plan annually, for every year they receive Yates funding. New and revised/updated IDPs will typically be due to the Graduate School in spring semester, in early April. Once the fellow has exhausted all Yates funding, they are encouraged, but no longer required, to submit an annual IDP to the Graduate School. Yates Fellows are provided access to additional funds to defray some of the cost of Student Health Insurance. Student who purchase this university-supplied insurance receive up to $1,000/year for multiple years (3 years for doctoral students, 2 years for master's students). When this benefit is combined with the GSHI award for graduate assistants and fellows, the yearly cost of the single-student health insurance coverage is negligible. Current Award Cycle Graduate departments may nominate up to three prospective/incoming students who will start a master's or doctoral program in Fall 2022. Selection Round Dates The Yates Fellowship Program offers three selection rounds: Round 1: Applications due to Graduate School (via Slate form) by 11:59 p.m. on Tuesday, February 8. Round 1 recipients will be announced February 24. Round 2: Applications due to Graduate School (via Slate form) by 11:59 p.m. on Monday, March 21. Round 2 recipients will now be announced April 7. Round 3: Applications due to Graduate School (via Slate form) by 11:59 p.m. on Monday, April 18. Round 3 recipients will now be announced May 6. Details Incoming, full-time (12 or more credit hours) students are nominated by their departments. Documentation of underrepresentation within the program is necessary. Yates Fellowship Program Description (PDF) Yates Fellowship Application Instructions for Graduate Programs (PDF) (To view these documents, you will need Adobe Acrobat Reader, a free download.) Selection Criteria Nominee's potential for academic achievement* Strength of the program's recommendation Strength of the program's plan for academic, financial and mentoring support of the nominee, including a timeline and proposal for the use of Yates funding Nominee's application materials (including the Yates student statement) Nominee's status as a U.S. citizen or permanent resident Nominee's status as a new graduate student at UC (students who attended UC as undergraduate students are still eligible) Underrepresentation of nominee's ethnicity within the program (nominating programs must document that the student's demographic origin is underrepresented within the graduate program to the satisfaction of the selection committee) *Potential may be measured by past academic performance, demonstrated skills, outstanding accomplishment, tenacious attitude and/or other qualities deemed appropriate by the selection committee. Please direct questions to the Yates Fellowship email (yates@uc.edu) with questions. Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 grad.info@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate School at the University of Cincinnati 110 Van Wormer Hall P.O. Box 210627 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-4335 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top