Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Physics Ph.D. school Graduate School department Physics Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Physics Ph.D. program provides students with opportunities to perform independent research in some of the most current vital areas of physics. Students will develop a solid and broad base of physics knowledge through our core curriculum, departmental colloquia and training. They conduct research in astrophysics and cosmology and in high energy, condensed matter and biological physics that is interdisciplinary and international in scope. Our graduate students train with 30 physics professors and 12 joint and affiliated faculty, primarily in engineering, applied mathematics, biology, and chemistry. Multidisciplinary inquiry is encouraged. The academic program is rigorous yet flexible, combining strong core training with multiple options for more specialized studies. We foster a strong sense of community not always found in larger departments. Brown’s affiliations provide national and international research opportunities. Easy access to seminars and courses of the greater Boston area universities enriches our intellectual life. Upper-level courses and departmental seminar series subsequently provide more specialized exposure. Armed with the core knowledge, a graduate student joins a research group working in an area of particular interest. This research is performed in very close collaboration with one or more of our faculty, whose interests span a wide range of physics fields. Admission Information Inquire Apply Applicants are expected to have a strong background in physics or closely related subjects at the undergraduate level. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required for any non-native English speaker who does not have a bachelor's degree or higher from an institution where English is the sole language of instruction or from a university in the following countries: Australia, Bahamas, Botswana, Cameroon, Canada (except Quebec), Ethiopia, Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Gambia, Uganda, United Kingdom (England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales), West Indies, Zambia). Letters of Recommendations: Three (3) letters of recommendation required. Personal Statement: 1000-1500 word personal statement that gives your reasons to pursue graduate work in the field of your study. The statement should include examples of your past work in your chosen field, your plans for study at Brown, issues and problems you'd like to address in your field, faculty you are interested in working with, and your professional goals. Resume/CV: Required Additional Materials: Texts: Please provide information about courses you are currently enrolled in or have taken at the undergraduate or graduate level, and the textbooks that were used, as related to Physics. Additional Requirements: Please also see our additional Information for International Students. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2022 Completion Requirements All core courses, four advanced courses, qualifying examination, preliminary examination, faculty-supervised research, dissertation, and oral defense. Physics Ph.D. Alumni Career Data Learn More Leadership Department Chair Gang Xiao gang_xiao@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Savvas Koushiappas savvas_koushiappas@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Physics Mailing Address Brown University Box 1843 physics-student-affairs@brown.edu 401-863-2641 Visit the Department of Physics Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Program Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Physics Open details for Physics Bookmark this Page