Skip to content Florida State University FSU | GradWorld FSU Navigation Search FSU Webmail Search FSU FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Site Navigation Home Graduate Videos Create a Video | Apply Now to FSU Request FSU Info Quick links Global Navigation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu GradWorld FSU Home Graduate Videos Create a Video | Apply Now to FSU Request FSU Info Quick links Legend Enter GradWorldFSU About GradWorld FSU GradWorld FSU is a revolutionary website that looks and feels very similar to Google Earth, displaying a variety of personalized videos from graduate students, postdocs, alumni and faculty for the purpose of showcasing their outstanding achievements and contributions to Florida State University. This is an extraordinary opportunity for everyone around the world to see your passion, interests, research goals and learn more about our wonderful university. Once others see you talking with such enthusiasm and excitement about all of the amazing things you are doing, they too will want to join in on the fun and become part of this great scholarly community known as "Family FSU.” Make Your Mark on the World Stand out, be creative and really shine bright by showing everyone how successful and engaged you have been! Create a Lasting Memory Cement an FSU memory that you will be able to share with your family and friends for years to come! Remind the World How Amazing You Are Showcase your personality, research, skills and passion for everyone in the world to enjoy! Build Up Your Professional Portfolio In today’s competitive market, a short 5 minute video could be a huge deciding factor in getting a wonderful job! View Profile Sir Harry Kroto GradWorld FSU is inspired by the late FSU chemistry professor and Nobel Laureate Sir Harry Kroto’s GEOSET project. In honoring Sir Harry Kroto’s vision, this website serves as an incredible tool that showcases the success and global reach of the FSU scholarly community. Digital Narratives: Grad Impact Capturing and Amplifying the Voice of the Graduate Student Experience at FSU Through Video, Podcast, and Written Narratives. Watch Us YouTube Listen To Us SoundCloud Explore Digital Repository © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media