Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Afford Funding & aid Funding dollars drive innovation at KU. You’ll investigate a number of funding resources, from KU and elsewhere, and choose the opportunities that best fit the needs of your graduate work. First step: File your Free Application for Federal Student Aid — many funding applications require you to have an up-to-date FAFSA. If you’re from outside the U.S., file your International Student Need Analysis Worksheet. Departmental funding Most of the funding opportunities available to new graduate students are administered by departments. Start by thoroughly reviewing the application requirements, which can be found after starting an application and selecting a program of interest. Reach out to the program contact listed in the requirements for more information. Other things to consider: Some programs automatically consider all applicants for funding through fellowships or assistantships. Some programs have specific deadlines for funding consideration. Some programs require additional application materials to be considered for funding. Other KU funding opportunities Fellowships and grants Click to expand You may be eligible for funding through merit-based, discipline-specific fellowships. Each of these awards has its own application process and requirements, which you would complete in addition to your departmental application for graduate study: Hall Center for the Humanities fellowships Dwight Eisenhower/Clifford Roberts Graduate Fellowship The Madison & Lila Self Graduate Fellowship University Graduate Fellowship Bernadette Gray-Little Fellowship Chancellor's Doctoral Fellowship Self Memorial Scholarship KU also offers or connects students with grants. Many are based on need or merit, and some are specific to departments, disciplines, or federal statuses. Refer to this list of KU grants, or contact your department for more information. Assistantships Click to expand Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs), Graduate Research Assistants (GRAs), and Graduate Assistants (GAs) receive tuition, wages, and/or funding in exchange for teaching or administrative support. Students should reach out to graduate programs about departmental assistantships and their benefits, or scan the Jobs at KU listings for outside opportunities. Learn more about assistantships Research funding Click to expand Students may apply for funding to support or advance their research, such as the Doctoral Student Research Fund and the Graduate Scholarly Presentation Travel Fund. Learn more about research funding Federal aid Click to expand KU’s Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships connects graduate students with federal aid. To take advantage of these opportunities, domestic students must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA); international students must file the Institutional Student Need Analysis Worksheet (ISNAW). Contact a KU Financial Aid counselor for more information. For military-affiliated students Click to expand Veteran, active duty, and family members of military-affiliated students may be eligible for KU and external funding opportunities. Learn more For underrepresented minority students Click to expand Graduate students of color or those who identify with underrepresented identities have a number of funding opportunities available to them. These include First-Year URM Fellowship Summer Research Scholarship External funding Additionally, many departments offer funding opportunities unique to their graduate programs or disciplines. Reach out to your department for more information. Emergency funding Click to expand Students who have incurred an immediate, unexpected expense due to circumstances beyond their control may qualify for the Graduate Student Emergency Fund. Eligible expenses may include emergency medical bills, travel costs due to the death of a family member, shelter or housing concerns, and more. Resources When it comes to searching for funding, students have several tools at their disposal. Pivot, a searchable database for finding funding opportunities, is a go-to resource for graduate students. Additionally, many KU offices and organizations help students find funding or offer their own opportunities. Search funding » External funding Students may seek private or outside funding. We encourage students to use the Pivot database, as well as speak to their advisors, departmental contacts, or graduate mentors for guidance in finding funding specific to their field or discipline. See private scholarships » Explore more resources » graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.