Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School About the Graduate School ABOUT Facilities Program Director & Selected Participating Faculty FAQs We believe the best graduate programs prepare their students to be conscientious intellectuals and professionals. These include Life Skills workshops, orientation programs and an annual student research colloquium. The Graduate School supervises all graduate work except that of the College of Law. The Graduate School sets standards for admission to graduate standing and recommends to the Board of Trustees for degrees those students who have completed the required work. Merit-based financial aid, in the form of research and teaching assistantships, scholarships and fellowships are also administered through the Graduate School. These awards assist students in paying for their graduate education and also offer opportunities to gain valuable skills in their discipline and as a professional. In addition, the Graduate School, in conjunction with the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs, offers funding for graduate students to present their research at academic conferences in the U.S and abroad. Our Students More than 750 graduate students currently study at TU, having moved to Tulsa from undergraduate institutions located in 35 states and 37 countries. Up to 30 percent of TU’s graduate population is international students and nine percent of the graduate population represents U.S. minority populations. More than 25 multicultural student organizations on campus provide support to international and minority students encouraging the successful completion of their graduate studies. Graduate School Membership The Graduate School is a member of the Council of Graduate Schools (CGS), the Conference of Southern Graduate Schools (CSGS) and the Midwestern Association of Graduate Schools (MAGS). Enrolled students are eligible for awards offered by these groups. Since 1993, TU students and faculty have benefited from its membership in Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU). ORAU is a consortium of 114 universities and a contractor for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. ORAU works with its member institutions to help their students and faculty gain access to federal research facilities throughout the country; to keep its members informed about opportunities for fellowship, scholarship, and research appointments; and to organize research alliances among its members. Through the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE), the DOE facility that ORAU operates, undergraduates, graduates, postgraduates, as well as faculty enjoy access to a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Students can participate in programs covering a wide variety of disciplines including business, earth sciences, epidemiology, engineering, physics, geological sciences, pharmacology, ocean sciences, biomedical sciences, nuclear chemistry, and mathematics. A comprehensive listing of these programs and other opportunities, their disciplines, and details on locations and benefits can be found in the ORISE Catalog of Education and Training Programs. For more information about ORAU and its programs contact: Brenton McLaury, Dean of the Graduate School at 918-631-2336, Monnie E. Champion, ORAU Corporate Secretary at 865-576-3306, or visit the ORAU homepage. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT