Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Finances : Tuition Reduction Benefit (TRB) Tuition Reduction Benefit (TRB) The Tuition Reduction Benefit (TRB) refers to resident (in-state) tuition coverage that is provided to students as a benefit of their employment as teaching assistants (TAs), assistant instructors (AIs), and GRAs.* Graduate School TRB Rates for Fall and Spring Semesters: Graduate students employed as TAs, AIs, or GRAs* are eligible for the TRB, the amount of which is determined by the number of hours employed per week during the fall or spring as specified below: For half-time appointments (20 hours/week) or more, the TRB provides 9 credit hours of resident (in-state) tuition. For appointments between 10 and 19 hours/week, the TRB provides ½ of the 9- hour resident tuition amount. For appointments between 1 - 9 hours/week, no TRB is provided. The TRB is prorated if an AI, TA, or GRA assignment begins after the 12th class day or if the assignment ends before the last day of final exams. Graduate School TRB Rates for the Summer Semester Graduate students employed as TAs, AIs, or GRAs* during the summer are eligible for tuition benefits as specified below: For half-time appointments (20 hours/week) or more, the TRB provides 3 credit hours of resident tuition, regardless of the session length or number of sessions. For appointments between 1 and 19 hours/week, no TRB is provided. The TRB will be prorated if an AI, TA, or GRA assignment begins after the 4th class day or if the assignment ends before the last day of final exams. Medical, Law, and Professional School TRB Rates for Fall and Spring Semesters Students employed by UT’s professional schools as TAs, AIs, or GRAs* are also eligible for the TRB, the amount of which is determined by the number of hours employed per week during the fall or spring as specified below: For half-time appointments (20 hours/week) or more, the TRB provides $3,784 toward in-state tuition. For appointments between 10 and 19 hours/week, the TRB provides $1,892 toward in-state tuition. For appointments between 1 - 9 hours/week, no TRB is provided. The TRB is prorated if an AI, TA, or GRA assignment begins after the 12th class day or if the assignment ends before the last day of final exams. Medical, Law, and Professional School TRB Rates for Summer Semesters Students employed by UT’s professional schools as TAs, AIs, or GRAs* during the summer are eligible for tuition benefits as specified below: For half-time appointments (20 hours/week) or more, the TRB provides $1,415. For appointments between 1 and 19 hours/week, no TRB is provided. The TRB is prorated if an AI, TA, or GRA assignment begins after the 4th class day or if the assignment ends before the last day of final exams. Application of the TRB The TRB does not pay out directly to the student, but instead is applied to the student’s tuition bills. If a student has paid their tuition bill prior to the application of the TRB to their tuition bill, a refund will be issued in the amount of the TRB. Refunds are processed approximately 1 to 2 weeks after the 12th class day (fall/spring), and 1 to 2 weeks after the 4th class day (summer). If you have a Zero balance tuition bill after all exemptions and waivers (and before a TRB has been applied), you will not receive a TRB (i.e., when an outside entity pays a student’s tuition in full). Dual Degree students The TRB amount will be calculated at 9 hours resident tuition cost of the (Graduate School) Discipline that is shown on your tuition bill. *The benefit is not always available to GRAs. Check with your hiring unit for more information. Quick Links Calculate Tuition My Tuition Bill Request/Submit Resident Tuition Entitlement Questions If you have questions about the Tuition Reduction Benefit, contact Graduate_Studies@utlists.utexas.edu. Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022