Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Graduate School of Medical Sciences Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options News Seminars Student Research Thesis Defenses Three Minute Thesis (3MT) Vincent du Vigneaud Annual Research Symposium Newsletter Annual AwardsToggle Annual Awards menu options Alumni Award of Distinction Excellence in Teaching and Mentoring Award Julian R. Rachele Prize Student Service Award Vincent du Vigneaud Symposium Awards WCM Graduate Student Fellowships AdmissionsToggle Admissions menu options Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers AcademicsToggle Academics menu options PhD ProgramsToggle PhD Programs menu options BCMB Allied ProgramToggle BCMB Allied Program menu options Biochemistry & Structural Biology Cell & Developmental Biology Molecular Biology Immunology & Microbial Pathogenesis Neuroscience Pharmacology Physiology, Biophysics & Systems BiologyToggle Physiology, Biophysics & Systems Biology menu options PBSB Program at Houston Methodist Ph.D./MBA Accelerated Degree Program Tri-Institutional Ph.D. Programs Master's ProgramsToggle Master's Programs menu options Health Sciences for Physician AssistantsToggle Health Sciences for Physician Assistants menu options PA Program Certificate Ceremony-Class of 2021 PA Program Matriculation Ceremony Clinical & Translational Investigation Clinical Epidemiology Population Health SciencesToggle Population Health Sciences menu options Biostatistics and Data Science Health Informatics Health Policy and Economics Computational Biology Executive MBA/MS in Healthcare Leadership Biomedical Imaging Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate ResearchToggle Summer Undergraduate Research menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Engineering Summer Program Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student ExperienceToggle Student Experience menu options Student FormsToggle Student Forms menu options Alumni Contact Information Form Student ServicesToggle Student Services menu options Office of the Registrar Housing Student Government (GSEC) Diversity and InclusionToggle Diversity and Inclusion menu options ACCESS Summer Internship Program Esprit de Corps Student Clubs and InitiativesToggle Student Clubs and Initiatives menu options Badminton Club (GSEC) Biotech Club Early STEM Outreach Club Hockey Team (GSEC) Science & Education Policy Association (SEPA) Soccer Club (GSEC) Softball Club (GSEC) The Science Communication Club (GSEC) Tri-I Outreach Club (TORC) Volleyball Club (GSEC) WCMC Book Club (GSEC) Yoga Club Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing ResourcesToggle Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources menu options Fellowship Opportunities Meet our fellows Weill Cornell Graduate School Fellowship Award Policies Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Admissions Academics Student Experience Faculty Our Trainees Home Faculty Monika Safford Professor Biography Dr. Monika Safford is a clinician-investigator with clinical expertise in preventive healthcare, treatment of acute and chronic illness and the coordination of care for those with complex diseases. Dr. Safford previously served at University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) School of Medicine as the Inaugural Endowed Professor of Diabetes Prevention and Outcomes Research, Assistant Dean for Continuing Medical Education, Associate Director of the Center for Outcomes and Effectiveness Research and Education, and Co-Director of UAB's T32 Health Services and Comparative Effectiveness Research Training Program. She is an active principal investigator with ongoing support from the National Institutes of Health, Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute, and industrial sources. Throughout her career as an educator, she has trained and mentored numerous medical students, graduate students, residents, fellows, and junior faculty members. She has chaired national meetings for the Society of General Internal Medicine and the American Diabetes Association for which she serves on a steering committee for an ISTEP medical education initiative and was Co-Chair of the ISTEP Writing Committee. Dr. Safford's honors include the American Association of Medical Colleges Learning Health System Research Pioneer Award (2013-14), a Gold Honor Society Humanism Program faculty mentor appointment (2012) and multiple awards for Research Excellence from UAB Department of Medicine, including the UAB Department of Medicine Max Cooper Award for Excellence in Research. With more than 260 papers published in top tier journals, she is an expert in patient-centered research on diabetes, cardiovascular epidemiology and prevention, and health disparities. Among her published studies are noteworthy investigations on an underserved and largely African-American region called the Alabama Black Belt, where two-thirds of adults are obese and many have diabetes, hypertension or other chronic conditions. Dr. Safford has studied how health coaches and other non-traditional interventions affect patient outcomes, and was recently awarded a $10 million grant by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute of the National Institutes of Health to test two ways of improving the blood pressure of 2,000 people in the area. Dr. Safford received her Bachelor of Arts degree from Dartmouth College and her Medical Degree from Weill Cornell. She completed her residency in internal medicine at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Before joining the University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine and the Birmingham Veterans Administration Medical Center in 2003, she earlier worked as an instructor of medicine at Brown University Medical School with a hospital appointment at The Miriam Hospital in Providence, Rhode Island; and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, with a hospital appointment at the affiliated University Hospital. Programs of Study Clinical Epidemiology & Health Services Research Ready to start? Apply now Need more info? Ask a question Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Weill Cornell Medicine Graduate School of Medical Sciences 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 Jump To Top Our Location Graduate School of Medical Sciences Contact Us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram 1300 York Ave. Box 65 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6565 Fax: (212) 746-5981 About Us WCGS Vision Statement Leadership and Staff WCGS Code of Legislation and Policies Science and Society Series Committees Science Outreach Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Alumni News and Events Newsletter Annual Awards Admissions Financial Support International Students Trainee Statistics and Outcomes PhD Application Fee Waivers Academics PhD Programs Master's Programs Degree Requirements Learning Assessment Course Offerings Skills Toolbox PhD Student Exit Checklist Research Topics CU-WCGS Linkage Program Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Summer Undergraduate Research Pre-Doctoral Institutional Training Programs Student Experience Student Forms Student Services Diversity and Inclusion Student Clubs and Initiatives Accessing Student Support Services Career Services Weill Cornell IMSD Program Fellowship and Scientific Writing Resources Social Justice and Anti-Racism (SJAR) Task Force Faculty Our Trainees Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance