Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Admissions Admitted Students Admitted Students Welcome to Cornell! Congratulations on your acceptance into Cornell…and welcome! We are excited that you will begin your graduate program soon and look forward to working with you. Cornell is committed to the health and safety of our campus and surrounding communities. Please see the Vaccination at Cornell page or Cornell’s COVID-19 website for current information on campus requirements and public health guidance. You are beginning to receive information about Cornell and the Ithaca area to help you transition to graduate study. Orientation begins during the summer with our Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series. These workshops serve as a primer for graduate study at Cornell and includes information on expectations and tips for success as well as available resources and support to help you now and during your degree program. Orientation does not replace your field’s orientation program; it supplements it. We hope it will help you experience the benefits of a larger, interdisciplinary community. Please consult your field’s website for field-, college-, and program-specific orientation programs. Please also make sure to keep track of your new student to do list. You will receive an email with instructions for Graduate School Orientation participation later this summer. Orientation Highlights: July 2022 – Orientation Hub opens We use Cornell’s learning management system, Canvas, to house modules including information, resources, tips, and links to register for our formal program and the Graduate School Primer workshops. The Orientation Hub link will be sent in July. August 18, 2022 – Graduate School Welcome The formal program features Cornell President Martha Pollack, Graduate School Dean and Vice Provost for Graduate Education Kathryn J. Boor, and the Graduate School’s associate and assistant deans who will help you understand Cornell’s structure, funding, and much more. At registration, you will be asked to submit questions that you would like to be addressed during a special Q&A discussion section of the program. July and August 2022 – Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series (via Zoom) This workshop series is designed exclusively for first-year graduate and professional students and covers topics like understanding doctoral funding, mentoring, time management, and much more. Sessions are all online via Zoom. For Our International Student Community: Fall 2022 Orientation for International Students Saturday, August 20, 2022 Join the Office of Global Learning for our orientation for new and transferring international undergraduate, graduate, and professional students arriving at Cornell in fall 2022. You will learn important information on U.S. immigration and taxes, health and safety, academic integrity, and wellness and inclusion. We will also have a student panel discussion addressing such topics as transitioning to the U.S. and to a new academic culture. Attendance is not required but strongly recommended. Summer Orientation for International Teaching Assistants (ITAs) Thursday, August 18, 2022 The Center for Teaching Innovation is launching a new summer orientation in 2022. It is a synchronous event for all new international teaching assistants (ITAs). Designed to support new ITAs who speak English as an additional language, the event provides timely practical advice from current and former ITAP students about navigating Cornell teaching, coursework, ITAP courses, and other resources and promotes networking with other ITAs and ITA program staff. Information available in the Orientation Hub: Cornell’s public health requirements, including vaccinations, pre-arrival, and arrival information Important Cornell offices and resources Social events sponsored by the Big Red Barn Graduate and Professional Student Center Stay Informed Graduate School Announcements posts Monday nights (ET) All new students will begin receiving the weekly Graduate School Announcements in mid-July. Websites Cornell University COVID-19 Information Graduate School COVID-19 Information International Student FAQs Public Health Requirements Keeping students, faculty, and staff safe Please check Cornell’s COVID-19 Information page frequently for the most recent information. Important resources: Cornell University COVID-19 Information New York State Department of Health Tompkins County Health Department Graduate School COVID-19 Information Find Your Community Knowing where to look can give you a head start With 23,600 students, Cornell is large. One tip for incoming students is to establish your networks early by getting out and meeting new people. The programs, organizations, and resources below are designed to bring people together. Big Red Barn Graduate and Professional Student Center. The Barn is the heart of the graduate and professional community with numerous events scheduled throughout the fall semester. Student Groups. With over 1,000 student groups, find a group that corresponds to your personal or professional interests. Several upcoming events are listed below. Graduate and Professional Student Assembly (GPSA). Cornell’s system of governance includes an active student component. Becoming part of the GPSA is a great way to meet people. Graduate and Professional Student Diversity Council. Help advance a sense of community, professional excellence, and a climate of inclusion for all graduate and professional students, but especially for those from marginalized communities and backgrounds historically underrepresented in the academy. Student Communities. Review our short list of student groups and links to other places to find community. If you have any questions, or need any support regarding accommodations, please contact Janna Lamey, senior assistant dean for graduate student life (607-255-5184 or janna.lamey@cornell.edu). Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022