Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Chemistry Ph.D. school Graduate School department Chemistry Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The graduate program in Chemistry offers exciting opportunities to pursue cutting–edge scientific research in physical, inorganic, organic, biological and nano chemistry. The department hosts numerous well–funded research projects that form the basis of graduate student dissertations. During the first semester, students enroll in four graduate level courses, including CHEM 2870, and choose a research advisor among the faculty in the department. Additionally, first year students receive fellowship support and are not required to teach. A significant feature of Brown's doctoral program in chemistry is that almost all students start their research during the second semester of the first year. During later semesters, the research project becomes the student's primary responsibility, and leads to a Ph.D. dissertation usually within four or five years. Additional Resources The Department of Chemistry occupies a state–of–the–art laboratory building and maintains outstanding facilities. Departmental research resources include a 600 MHz, a 300 MHz and two 400 MHz NMR spectrometers and six mass spectrometers with multiple ionization techniques including electrospray, APCI, MALDI, and EI. In addition, individual research groups maintain a wide array of specialized equipment, including three cutting–edge, ultra–fast laser systems; high power Nd:YAG; excimer, dye, and quantum cascade lasers; a laser Raman spectrometer; several high–resolution Fourier transform infrared spectrometers; an automated X–ray diffractometer; atomic force and scanning tunneling microscopes as well as a wide range of networked workstations and computers. In addition, the department houses excellent machine and electronics shops that are staffed by skilled technicians. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Additional Requirements: B.S. degree in chemistry or equivalent. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 1, 2022 Completion Requirements Completion of seven lecture–based courses, literature review and seminar, oral defense of a research project proposal, oral defense of an independent research proposal, dissertation research and thesis defense. Teaching experience is considered a valuable part of the program, and each student is normally expected to be a teaching assistant for one year during his or her graduate career. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Lai-Sheng Wang lai-sheng_wang@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Shouheng Sun shouheng_sun@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Chemistry Location Address 324 Brook Street Mailing Address Brown University Box H chemistry@brown.edu 401-863-2256 Visit the Department of Chemistry Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Chemistry Open details for Chemistry Bookmark this Page