Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home Graduate School Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin Graduate School Faculty Advisers & Coordinators Programs & Contacts Search Search Search Search About Us Expand Welcome from the Dean Why UT Austin? News Staff Directory Need help? Diversity and Inclusion Admissions Expand Where to Begin How to Apply Your Application Status After Your Decision Contact Admissions Orientation Academics Expand Programs & Contacts Milestones Graduate Catalog Academic & Registration Policies Research Theses & Dissertations Graduation Key Dates Forms Finances Expand Student Employment Fellowships Financial Aid Awards Travel Awards Fund for Academic Enrichment Tuition Reduction Benefit Services & Resources Expand Career Resources Counseling & Mental Health Events Housing Graduate Student Organizations Campus Services Dobie Paisano Fellowship Program Graduate Education Task Force Postdoctoral & Graduate Student Resources Home Admissions : How to Apply How to Apply Whether you're interested in starting a graduate program as a new student, seeking readmission to a program, or hoping to change your major, an application is required. International applicants follow the same processes as U.S. applicants, but may be required to submit additional test scores. Graduate Admission Students who have never before enrolled in a graduate program at The University of Texas at Austin should complete the graduate admissions process. Read More International Students Find information on applying as an international student. Read More Graduate Readmission Following a break in enrollment of one long semester or more, students previously enrolled in a UT Austin graduate program who wish to return to their program must apply for readmission. Read More Change of Graduate Major Current or returning UT Austin graduate students who wish to be considered for admission to a different graduate program must apply for a change of major. Read More Non-Degree Graduate Admission Individuals who wish to take graduate-level coursework without becoming a candidate for an advanced degree apply for admission as a non-degree seeker. A bachelor's degree is required. Read More MyStatus MyStatus offers applicants secure, individualized information from initial application submission to the final admission decision and beyond. Use it to track the receipt of submitted application materials, to upload required supporting documents, to confirm that your application file is complete, and to get your decision. After you submit your online application, you’ll receive an email (within 2-3 days) that will provide you with MyStatus login information. Use it often—it’s the only way you’ll know if items are missing from your application file. Check MyStatus Graduate School The Graduate School 110 Inner Campus Drive STOP G0400 MAI 101 Austin, TX 78712 Phone: 512-471-4511 Fax: 512-475-8851 Office Hours: 8:30 am - 4 pm Walk-In Hours: 10 am - 2 pm Graduate and International Admissions Center UT Administration Building (UTA) 1616 Guadalupe Street, Suite 4.202 Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-475-7391 Fax: 512-475-7395 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Vimeo Contact Graduate Admissions Faculty Advisers and Coordinators Areas of Study Maps UT Direct Provide Us Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022