Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Graduate Curriculum M. Arch I M. Arch I AP M. Science in Arch Graduate Design Studios M. Arch I M. Arch I AP Graduate Certificates Research & Practice Faculty Contact Us Graduate Curriculum Graduate Design Studios Graduate Certificates Research & Practice Faculty Search Graduate Curriculum M. Arch I M. Arch I AP M. Science in Arch Graduate Design Studios M. Arch I M. Arch I AP Graduate Certificates Research & Practice Faculty Contact Us View Program Booklet Student Gallery Stem Designation Alumni Story View Program Booklet Student Gallery Stem Designation Alumni Story View Program Booklet Student Gallery Stem Designation Alumni Story View Program Booklet Student Gallery Stem Designation Alumni Story View Program Booklet Student Gallery Stem Designation Alumni Story View Program Booklet Student Gallery Stem Designation Alumni Story GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Master of Architecture is an accredited professional degree program that prepares graduates to live and thrive in the world of architecture. The program promotes a creative, open and supportive environment emphasizing advanced and personalized instruction through small class and studio courses. We investigate the world of architecture in its manifold forms, and immerse ourselves in contemporary challenges to address a variety of social, cultural, technological, and programmatic contexts. Our program prides itself on offering diverse curricular and extra-curricular opportunities, while working directly with students to help them pursue their interests. Allan Shulman, Director of Graduate Programs in Architecture Master of Architecture I The School of Architecture at the University of Miami offers a professional Master of Architecture degree for college graduates seeking a first professional degree in architecture. The NAAB-accredited and STEM-designated M.Arch degree enables eligibility for professional registration following NCARB's mandatory Architectural Experience Program (AXP) Learn More Master of Architecture I AP The Master of Architecture I AP (M.Arch I AP) is a 2-year (4-semester program) for students holding a pre-professional degree in architecture or a closely-related field. This STEM-designated professional degree program provides an advanced platform for students to engage contemporary challenges and address a variety of social, cultural, technological and programmatic contexts. Learn More Master of Science in Architecture The Master of Science in Architecture, is a 1-year (3 semester) program that offers students an opportunity to investigate design strategies / challenges in relation to current issues that include: resilient design, tropical and subtropical architecture, health care design, housing design, conservation of the built environment and the effect of embedded technologies on design. Learn More Curriculum Interdisciplinary Opportunities Master of Architecture degree candidates can combine their degree with other advanced degrees, including the Master of Science in Architecture, Master of Urban Design, Master of Real Estate Development + Urbanism, and Master of Construction Management. A second master's degree supports students wishing to deepen their professional engagement in distinct but interrelated areas of architecture. A student enrolled in the M.Arch program may earn a second master degree by completing a minimum of 21 credit hours (36 typical). M.Arch + Master of Science in Architecture M.Arch + Master of Urban Design M. Arch + Master of Construction Management M. Arch + Master of Real Estate Development + Urbanism Curriculum Survey the integrative sequence of core and elective courses that make the curriculum. Learn more Design Studios Peek the core Graduate Design Studios, and survey recent Advanced Elective Design Studio options. Learn more Graduate Certificates Cultivate an area of concentration, with skill and knowledge bases for professional applications Learn more Research & Practice Explore diverse extra-curricular possibilities, including research labs and opportunities for professional engagement. Learn more The Buckminster Fuller's "Fly 's Eye Dome": Design District ARC 609 Visual Representation | Faculty: Veruska Vasconez - Submitted by: Wenxin Jiang Rad Lab Zenciti Nora Gharib ARC 610 Beatriz Santos | Garden Cosmologies: Curated Nature in the Contemporary City Arch 610 Thesis Spring 2018 | Faculty: Allan Shulman C.U.C.D Haiti Charrette Most Public: The Lifeguard Design | Wei Wang ARC 609 Visual Representation | Faculty: Veruska Vaconez & Juan Manuel Yactayo LA, LA, LA Land, NYC | John Chang Upper Level Graduate Studio | Summer 2015| Faculty: Joachim Perez Returning to Vernacular | James T. Harris Graduate Thesis Scaffolding Shelters: An Architectural Intervention | Shannar OConner ARC699: Directed Research [ Housing ] Destruction | Faculty: Germane Barnes Community Resilience & Relief Center (CR+RC) | Miami, FL | Beatriz Santos Vertical Studio, Fall 2016 |Faculty: Denis Hector and Zhao Pei Eco-Tent Prototype, Flamingo, Monroe County Everglades, FL Design/Build Project | Faculty: Rocco Ceo & Jim Anderson 20 The Steel Proto House Project: Weekend House | Victor Kalil Vertical Studio Spring 2018 | Faculty: Mauro Turin A Housing Project on the Lock, Panama Canal, Panama | Yutong Jiang Vertical Studio, Spring 2016 | Faculty: Terence Riley and Manuel Clavel Lu_Lab: Littoral Urbanism Lab Rocky Studio | Antoine Laduron Allan Shulman | Advanced Elective Design Studio LifeGuard House Beach | Yasmine Zeghar ARC 609 Visual Representation Fall 2016 | Faculty: Veruska Vasconez Emily Elkin |Miami River Arc 610 Evan Bobo | Socially Enormous Disruptures Konstantin Kritharidou |The Transformable Observatory Directed by: Jean-Francois Lejeune and Landolf Rhode-Barbarigos Sabrina Aboud |Gravity Studio Work |Sparse Matter for Concentrated Natures ARC 699 - Directed by: Joel Lamere - Team members: Xuan Bo/ Xiaofan Liu/ Liwan Wang/ Wei Wang Wei Wang |Leaking Vision M. Arch/ Thesis 2019 Graduation Exhibition Aigerim Amirova |Architectural Promenade On Cinematic Realities Ebraheem Alhusain |City Behind The Wall ARC 699 / Directed by: Prof. Shulman Jessica Abecassis Why Choose U-SoA? Center for Design and Research Beyond our curricular activities, we are home to innovate research units, including RAD-UM, a lab dedicated to emergent embedded technology, the Laboratory of Littoral Urbanism, and acclaimed design/build program, and the Center for Urban and Community Design. The School's resources, including state-of-the-art digital laboratories, a dedicated architecture library, lecture hall and exhibition center, are enhanced by the interdisciplinary opportunities offered by the other schools and colleges at the University of Miami. Miami: North-South and Tropical Miami's position between North and South, specifically its close proximity to the Caribbean and Latin America, stimulate the School's hemispheric focus and identity. Our tropical location allows students to understand the living and environmental issues that impact billions of people around the wrold from the Caribbean Sea to India and China. Building on our location, the School participates in international networks that enable students to develop an understanding of architecture and culture in an increasingly globalized world. Laboratory of Contemporary Architecture & Urbanism Miami is one of the world's most fascinating contemporary laboratories of architecture and urbanism. Our location facilitates the study of urbanization and regional environmental transformation, infrastructure development, sea level rise, and the transformative power of technology and public participation. The School makes full use of its context and collaborates with local governments, authorities and non-for-profits to design and build a better world. Vibrant Metropolitan Context The University of Miami is in a growing metropolitan region with a high employment rate, and many opportunities to work. Miami and its region are the home base of significant architects and urbanists, and the city comprises a cgrowing body of important buildings by Pritzker Prize recipients. The vital cultural life of the city and the international business ambience of our region make Miami an attractive place to live and study. In the midst of all this, the intimate and park-like tropical atmosphere of UM campus and School of Architecture offer a productive sanctuary. Cross-cultural environment The Master of Architecture curriculum reflects the multiplicity of the discipline: theory and practice, innovation and tradition, building design and urban design. The School is committed to sustainable urbanism and city, and to the value of tradition and modernity as reciprocal in the design of buildings and the design of the city and its neighborhoods. Our diverse faculty, many leaders in the profession, represent the Americas, Africa, Asia, and Europe. SoA Faculty Faculty SOA CONTACT US SOA CONTACT US EVENTS U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Graduate Programs In Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices