Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Financial Assistance > Assistantships/Fellowships Assistantships/Fellowships FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research and Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Teaching/Research/Administrative Office Assistantships Open to all full-time students admitted to master’s or doctoral degrees. Applicants interested in a department teaching or research assistantship should select “Yes” for the assistantship question on the application for admission. An option to upload a CV/Resume will then be included with other supplemental items on the application website. Stipend of at least $13,410 for fall and spring semesters and remission of 100% of tuition per semester for students enrolled in a master’s degree program, including student health insurance. Stipend of at least $14,360 for fall and spring semesters and remission of 100% of tuition per semester for students enrolled in a doctoral degree program, including student health insurance. Workload: Teaching, research or office-related activities required for 20 hours per week. Merit-Based Scholarships Available to incoming full-time and part-time students, merit-based scholarships are awarded based on a student’s academic profile. The scholarship committee considers a student’s GPA, GMAT or GRE scores, and other academic background information. The best part? This option does not require an application! Graduate Assistantships in Publications Open to students pursuing master’s or doctoral degrees in English Language and Literature. These positions are not typically awarded to first-year graduate students. These include positions as editorial assistants for The James Joyce Quarterly and Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature. Stipend: $13,410 to $14,360 and remission of 100% of tuition per semester for students enrolled in a master’s degree program, including student health insurance. Stipend: $13,410 to $14,360 and remission of 100% of tuition per semester for students enrolled in a doctoral degree program, including student health insurance. Wilfred Woobank Graduate Assistantship Application Form The applicant must be a citizen of the United States and either be seeking full-time enrollment or be enrolled full-time in a graduate degree program within the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. The awards may be designated for one year or may be awarded for up to three years of study for the master’s or four years for the doctoral degree. The stipends are at least $15,000 a year for a nine-month stipend and include 18-19 hours of tuition scholarship. Exceptional awards with $20,000 in stipend and including a tuition scholarship are also available. Exceptional awards can include summer stipend and tuition support. There is a 10-hour per week service component to the Wilfred Woobank Assistantship, intended to foster interaction between the scholar and the department. Application deadline is no later than 5 p.m. Jan. 22; applications are available from the Graduate School Office. Ben Henneke Research Fellowship Application Form This award honors the university’s first Trustees Professor of Humanities and President Emeritus, Ben Graf Henneke. Successful applicants have exemplary academic achievements, community service or service learning, and demonstrate leadership and/or commitment to social justice. The applicant must be a citizen of the United States and either be seeking full-time enrollment or be enrolled full-time in a master’s degree program within the arts and humanities (anthropology, English language and literature, museum science, or psychology). The award carries a nine-month stipend of $15,000 and nine credit hours of tuition for each of the fall and spring semesters, as well as six credits of summer tuition when appropriate, including student health insurance. Application deadline is no later than 5 p.m. Jan. 22; applications are available from the Graduate School Office. John S. Zink Fellowship For Students With Disabilities Application Form This endowed fellowship is available to aid TU students with disabilities and is given to students in any graduate program. Fellowship amounts are variable and awarded on the basis of need. To qualify, you must be admitted to The University of Tulsa, be in good academic standing, qualify for services provided by the Center for Student Academic Support and be registered to receive those services. Application deadline is no later than 5 p.m. Jan. 22; application forms are available from the Graduate School Office. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT