Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Context: Search This Site Search Cornell Cornell University Graduate School Main Menu About Events Calendar Resources Policies Forms Alumni Search Home Home Admissions Degrees & Fields Explore Prepare Apply Admitted Students Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Assistantships Fellowships Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Thesis & Dissertation Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Recruitment Signature Initiatives Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards Funding and Resources Faculty Resources Student Organizations Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Student Experience Big Red Barn Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Student Communities Student Life Programs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Admissions Degrees & Fields Fields of Study – Graduate Catalog Understanding the Field Structure Graduate Degrees Explore Non-Degree Admissions Faculty Research and Scholarship Prepare Required Tests Recommendations Academic Statement of Purpose Personal Statements Transcript Requirements International Degree Equivalencies English Language Proficiency Requirement Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Apply Important Application Policies Application Fees Admissions Costs for International Students Apply Now Application Status Accepting, Deferring, and Reapplying Funding and Next Steps Admitted Students You Belong at Cornell Navigating Graduate School Resources for First-Year Students Living in Ithaca Visiting and Getting Around Housing Housing Tips Dining Admissions and Admitted Student FAQ Contact Graduate Admissions Financial Support Tuition Rates Tuition Rates by Field Health Insurance Rates Cost of Attendance Reduced Tuition for Advanced Self-Pay Doctoral Students Assistantships Fellowships New Student Fellowships Continuing Student Fellowships Presidential Life Science Fellowship External Fellowships List of External Fellowships Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Research Statement Financial Supplementation of External Fellowships NSF GRFP Fellowship Loans Stipend Rates Tax Information Understanding the 1098-T Form Preparing Taxes Travel Funding Opportunities Academic Progress Requirements Academic Structure Getting Registered Enrolling in Courses Finding Administrative Help Making Academic Progress Nominating Your Special Committee Advancing to Doctoral Candidacy Defending Your Thesis or Dissertation Taking Exams Petitioning for Exceptions Responsible Conduct of Research Student Progress Review Changing Your Committee Changing Your Field or Program Changing Your Status Educational Opportunities Off Campus Faculty Guide to Advising Research Degree Students Mentoring Remotely During Disruption Advising Guide for Research Students Advising Guide for Professional Students Office of Academic and Student Affairs Academic Writing Programs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Application Tips Productive Fellowship Writer Writing and Publishing Workshop Series Interdisciplinary Research and Ethics Programs Three Minute Thesis 3MT 2022 3MT 2021 3MT 2019 3MT 2018 3MT 2017 Promoting Your Research with Compelling Communication (aka, 3MT and Beyond!) Community Engagement Programs Thesis & Dissertation Understanding Deadlines and Requirements Guide to Writing Your Thesis/Dissertation Required Sections, Guidelines, and Suggestions Formatting Requirements Fair Use, Copyright, Patent, and Publishing Options Fields Permitting the Use of Papers Option Templates Editing, Typing, and Proofreading Services Writing from A to B Scheduling and Taking Exams Submitting Your Thesis/Dissertation Submission Fees Graduation Requirements Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Student Engagement Contact OISE Staff Recruitment Prospective Students Requesting Letters of Recommendation Writing Your Academic Statement of Purpose Understanding & Preparing Your Personal Statement Summer Research Internships for Undergraduates Recruitment Calendar Become an Ambassador Signature Initiatives Graduate School Dean’s Scholars Summer Success Symposium Graduate Students Mentoring Undergraduates Intergroup Dialogue Project My Voice, My Story Colman Inclusive Leadership Program NextGen Professors Program Application Information 2022 NextGen Professors Public Keynote 2021-2022 Cohort NextGen Alumni Future Professors Institute Building Allyship Series Multicultural Academic Council Mentoring Program Sponsored Awards Bouchet Honor Society Bouchet Graduate Honor Society Scholars Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awards 2021 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2020 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees 2019 Graduate Diversity & Inclusion Awardees Funding and Resources Graduate School Fellowships in Support of Diversity External Resources and Support Diversity Fellowship Instructions for DACA Applicants Faculty Resources Implicit Bias Resources Practical Steps Student Organizations Celebrating Black Graduate Excellence at Cornell Reporting Bias Professional Development Pathways to Success Navigate Academia Build Your Skills Tips and Takeaways Tips for TAs Leadership Opportunities Create Your Plan Prepare for Your Career Understand Yourself Present Your Key Skills to an Employer Explore Options Find a Postdoc Position Take Action Resumes and CVs Research Statement Teaching Philosophy Statement Interviews Present Your Research Evaluate Offers Consider Job Satisfaction Evaluate the Compensation Package Negotiate a Salary Package Delay Your Response Protect Your Good Name Respond to an Offer Pathways to Success Symposium Summer 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2021 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Summer 2020 Pathways to Success Series Sessions Winter 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Summer 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Spring 2019 P2S Symposium Sessions Free Memberships for Cornell Graduate Students and Postdocs Student Experience Big Red Barn Signature Events Hours and Dining Reserving the Barn Meet the Barn Staff Office of Graduate Student Life Help and Support Mental Health While Away from Campus Student Communities International Students LGBTQ+ Students Students of Color Students with Partners and Families Student Veterans Women’s Communities Student Life Programs Graduate School Primer: Navigating Academia Workshop Series Perspectives: The Complete Graduate Student Weekly Walks Book Clubs Student Governance Student Perks and Discounts Graduate School Academic Progress Office of Academic and Student Affairs Fellowship Workshops Fellowship Workshops If you need additional assistance with your graduate fellowship application after our fellowship workshops and review sessions have concluded or are unable to attend a session, here are some options: Many fellowship competitions list either faculty, reviewers from previous years’ competitions, or current fellowship recipients who may be contacted to answer your questions. (As the fellowship application deadline approaches, be prepared that the person you contact may not be able to respond to further questions or take on additional requests for reviews.) As an example, the AAUW lists current fellowship recipients. Contact those at your institution and ask if they have time to answer your questions. NSF lists faculty contacts at most institutions as well. Seek out advanced graduate students in your field (or a related field) who have applied for the same fellowship competition. They may be willing to answer your questions or, if they have the time, to offer some feedback on your draft. (The earlier in the semester you ask, the better.) Ask peers and friends for feedback on your essay drafts. One faculty reviewer for the NSF GRFP has said, “Almost all research statements are good enough. It’s the personal statements that really need work, i.e., more compelling writing to tell a persuasive story, more editing and polishing.” If your faculty advisor provides useful comments on the research statement, then even friends who are not specialists in your specific field or subfield can provide feedback on your personal statement. Get reviews from multiple peers, especially from those who have previously applied. Use Cornell’s Graduate Writing Service for additional help. If you are a Cornell international student, you have an additional resource, the English Language Support Office, to provide help with your writing. (Sign up early in the semester if you plan to have drafts ready for review; appointments from mid-semester to end of the term fill quickly.) If you would find it useful, you can review sample fellowship applications, submitted by Cornell graduate fellowship recipients, in 350 Caldwell Hall. We send out a call each year asking for essays from those who win an external fellowship; most of the applications we receive are from NSF GRFP recipients. We also have a list of fellowship writing tips (PDF) offered by graduate students who have won other external fellowship awards. Fall 2021 Workshops Fellowships 101: Writing a Competitive Graduate Fellowship Application Join us to learn about strategies, resources, and advice from graduate faculty and graduate fellowship recipients about writing a competitive graduate fellowship application. NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Join us to learn more about the NSF GRFP. Get advice from NSF Fellows, view sample essays, and learn strategies for writing a very competitive fellowship application. Fellowships Q&A and Consultation: Drop-in Hours Drop into our Zoom session anytime to ask your questions, whether you are applying this fall or planning a spring or fall 2022 submission. Past Workshops (Fall 2020) Fellowships 101: Writing a Competitive Graduate Fellowship Application Join us to discuss effective ways to identify fellowship competitions, draft an application, get and use feedback, secure strong letters of recommendation, and manage your time and process to submit a successful fellowship application. We’ll identify key elements that reviewers use in their decision-making, using the funders’ evaluation criteria for a successful application. Handouts and discussion guide will be emailed in advance to pre-registrants. Watch the video of the September 22 session. National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Information Sessions Join us for tips on writing a very competitive NSF GRFP application. Current NSF Fellows will share their winning strategies, including how to emphasize the broader impacts and intellectual merits of your research. We’ll provide tip sheets, sample essays, and other resources. Also, check out the 2021 NSF GRFP competition announcement. Students who pre-register or attend one of these workshops will receive a list of Cornell fellowship recipients who are willing to give feedback on your fellowship application draft. Advice from Successful Graduate Fellowship Writers Session Join us for advice on writing very competitive graduate fellowship applications from successful recipients of external fellowship competitions, such as the Boren, Ford, Hertz, Liebmann, NSF, Soros, and Wenner-Gren. We’ll provide tip sheets and other resources to all who pre-register and/or attend. Graduate Fellowship Writers Q&A Session Are you writing a graduate fellowship application for external funding? Join us as we address your questions and provide guidance as you work toward finalizing your fellowship application. Past Workshops (Fall 2019) Fellowships 101: Writing a Competitive Graduate Fellowship Application Are you writing your first graduate fellowship application for external funding? Join us as we identify sources of funding, help you draft competitive research and personal essays, and develop a timeline for productive writing and submission of applications. Bring your questions! Peer Review and Consultation Sessions Bring your fellowship application draft and questions; meet with current fellows, past fellowship winners, and peers also applying for external fellowships this year to get feedback and advice. Come and go anytime during this session. No pre-registration necessary. Just sign in when you arrive. National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Application Workshop Join us for tips on writing a very competitive NSF GRFP application. Current NSF Fellows will share their winning strategies, including how to emphasize the broader impacts and intellectual merits of your research. We’ll provide tip sheets, sample essays, and other resources. Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. Quick Links Intranet Events Resources Forms Policies Affiliated Offices Careers Beyond Academia English Language Support Office Future Faculty and Academic Careers Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Office of Global Learning Office of Postdoctoral Studies Cornell University Graduate School Caldwell Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2602 (607) 255-5820 Contact Us Web Accessibility Help Cornell University © 2022