Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Biostatistics Ph.D. school School of Public Health department Biostatistics Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The doctoral program in Biostatistics provides the training necessary to carry out independent research in theory, methodology and the application of statistics to important problems in biomedical research, including research biology, public health and clinical medicine. The Ph.D. program is administered by an active, expanding and highly interdisciplinary faculty in the Department of Biostatistics. Major areas of research activity include Bayesian inference, analysis of biomarkers and diagnostic tests, causal inference and missing data, time series and functional data analysis, modeling of social networks, bioinformatics, longitudinal data, and multilevel modeling. Faculty collaborate actively with investigators in the areas of cancer prevention and screening, behavioral sciences, HIV/AIDS, health care policy, genetic epidemiology, neuroscience, and genomics. Additional Resources All PhD graduate students are provided with a new laptop computer and office space. Students also have access to the computing infrastructure at the Center for Statistical Sciences, a high-end, continuously updated computing environment featuring both Unix and PC/MAC networks, with access to all major software for data analysis and numerical computing. CSS also maintains a considerable collection of statistics texts and journals in the Walter Freiberger Biostatistics Library. Admission Information Inquire Apply MCAT or LSAT tests cannot be substituted for the GRE. Applicants to the Ph.D. program should have taken courses in calculus (three semesters), and advanced undergraduate courses in linear algebra and probability. Experience with numerical computing is also recommended. Applications from students in applied fields such as biology, biochemistry, economics, and computer science are strongly encouraged, with the understanding that necessary mathematical coursework may have to be completed before or soon after enrollment in the program. Applicants to this School of Public Health program should apply through SOPHAS, a centralized application service for accredited schools and programs in public health. The application opens in mid–August each year. The Department of Biostatistics will waive the requirement of the GRE results for the 2021-2022 application cycle. Applicants who submit results will not be penalized, nor will applicants who do not submit results. Brown University School of Public Health GRE reporting code: 7765. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Official Transcripts: Required Letters of Recommendations: (3) Required Personal Statement: Required Resume/CV: Required Additional Materials: Application Fee Additional Requirements: International Applicants Language Proficiency (TOEFL or IELTS if applicable) Transcript Evaluation (if applicable) Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Completion Requirements For all Ph.D. students, 24 credits are required of students matriculating in the program without a master's degree; 16 are required beyond the master's. For those with a related master's degree, up to eight units can be transferred. Both written and oral exams, plus a dissertation comprising an original contribution to the field, also are required. Students are expected to participate in academic activities such as the Statistics Seminar and faculty–organized working groups. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Joseph Hogan jwh@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Christopher Schmid christopher_schmid@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Biostatistics Mailing Address Brown University Box G-S121-7 Denise_Arver@brown.edu 401-863-9381 Visit the Department of Biostatistics Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Public Health Career Outcomes Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Biostatistics Open details for Biostatistics Bookmark this Page