Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Explore Academics at KU Together, KU’s graduate students mine curiosity, create solutions, and improve the world. Individually, they hone research skills and amplify their voices among top scholars. Find the perfect program KU offers over 450 graduate programs across 14 schools and five campuses. Delve into disciplines and learn from distinguished faculty leading their fields. All programs Academic catalog Program profiles Foundation professors More degree options Depending on your field of study, you could earn a graduate degree at one of KU's four other campuses — including the Edwards Campus in Overland Park and the campuses of the University of Kansas Medical Center — or through an online or distance program. Edwards Campus KU Med Center Online programs Research at KU As a Research I institution, KU’s research endeavors create worldwide change. You’ll find countless opportunities to share in that transformative mission — and make your own mark — among more than 60 research centers and institutes. Office of Research KU Research Centers KU Medical Center Research Academic stats 5 Top-5 programs in the U.S. 450+ graduate programs 100+ graduate departments Get started Ready to start the conversation with KU? Begin the application process or sign up for our email list. Apply Apply Request info Request info graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.