Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Engineering Ph.D. school School of Engineering Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The School of Engineering focuses on unique and innovative clustering of faculty. In terms of research groups, engineers of all types team together with non–engineers to tackle some of the biggest problems facing engineering and science today. Since this range of topics is so broad, prospective Ph.D. students are strongly encouraged to browse the engineering website to further explore individual research activities. Students usually identify an advisor during the early stages of graduate study and are often involved in independent research from the start of the program. Each student, in collaboration with their advisor, develops a unique program of study that includes both coursework and independent research, and prepares the students for careers in academia and industry. Additional Resources As well as distinct master's degree programs in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship (PRIME) and Biomedical Engineering, the School of Engineering includes the following research areas: The Chemical and Environmental Engineering (ChEE) applies chemical and engineering sciences to emerging technologies and their impacts on human health and the environment. Specific research thrusts include environmental remediation, biotechnology, biotransport processes, chemical nanoscience, carbon-based materials, and thermal and electrochemical energy conversion. The Electrical and Computer Engineering group is divided into solid state and quantum electronics (SSQE) and computer engineering. Research topics include projects in experimental laser sciences, semiconductors, optoelectronics, condensed matter physics, nanoscience and technology, biophotonics, and bioengineering. The computer engineering group has topics in multimedia signal processing, medical imaging, computer vision, 3D photography, speech processing, image understanding, design and test of digital integrated circuits, computer architecture, physical integrated circuit design, and nanoscale system design. Research in the Fluids and Thermal Sciences group focuses on a broad range of disciplines and applications including fundamental fluid dynamics and heat transfer, micro– and nanoscale fluids, complex fluids, biotechnology, acoustics, thermodynamics and energy sciences. The Materials Science focuses on a fundamental understanding of the different types of materials and the interrelationship between processing, structure, and materials properties. The Mechanics of Solids group fosters a balanced program that integrates the perspectives of continuum mechanics, structure of matter, and materials science. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Required Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 31, 2021 Completion Requirements Three years of full–time residence, satisfactory completion of a progress review and preliminary exam, completion and defense of dissertation. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Dean of Engineering Larry Larson Lawrence_Larson@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Eric Chason eric_chason_phd@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Chemical and Environmental Engineering) Andrew Peterson andrew_peterson@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Electrical and Computer Engineering) Jimmy Xu Jimmy_Xu@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Fluids and Thermal Sciences) Roberto Zenit roberto_zenit@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Materials) Brian Sheldon brian_sheldon@brown.edu Graduate Advisor (Mechanics of Solids) Pradeep Guduru pradeep_guduru@brown.edu Contact and Location School of Engineering Mailing Address Brown University Box D engingrad@brown.edu 401-863-2677 Visit the School of Engineering Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Engineering Open details for Engineering Bookmark this Page