Skip to main content Apply Now Calendar Newsroom Contact Us Advancing graduate education. Enhancing the graduate student experience. About Staff Diversity Advisory Boards & Councils Newsroom Calendar Ombuds Office/Conflict Resolution Graduate Council GAAC Facts & Figures Publications & Reports GradTerp Exchange Admissions Choose Maryland Student Stories List of Programs (A to Z) Admissions Requirements Application Process International Admissions Non-Degree Admissions Admissions Fee Waiver Eligibility Admissions FAQs Graduate Programs Research & Professional Programs All Graduate Programs Admissions Requirements Funding Assistantship Information Tuition & Fees Fellowship Information External Fellowships Student Fellowships & Awards Faculty & Staff Awards Workshops Policies Admissions Policies Academic Policies Financial Policies Registration Policies Assistantship Policies Fellowship Policies Graduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Archive Students Deadlines Professional and Career Development Forms Funding New Students International Students Register & Enroll Academic Progress Opportunities for Success Interdisciplinary Opportunities Student Employment Student Support Services Health & Wellness Getting Involved Course-related Policies Graduate Academic Counselor Graduate Pathways Ombuds Office/Conflict Resolution Report Abuse Terp Tax Faculty & Staff Admissions Toolkit Forms Graduate Catalog Faculty & Staff Awards Faculty Handbook Red Folder Graduate Council International Initiatives Postdocs Stipend Levels Graduate Learning Outcomes Assessment Professional Development Advances Remote Defense Request Request for Report of Examining Committee Operating Reports Course Related Policies Alumni & Friends Alumni Spotlights Giving Opportunities Giving Process Stay In Touch Update Your Information Doctoral Alumni Career Services Doctoral Careers Advisory Board UMD-DOCNET Alumni News You are here Home Admissions Share Admissions The University of Maryland (UMD) is committed to our graduate students and to the more than 230 programs in which they are enrolled. Our graduate student community consists of approximately 10,500 students, 4,600 of whom are pursuing a PhD, 5,200 who are enrolled in traditional and professional master’s programs, and nearly 700 who are not yet seeking a degree but are enrolled in graduate courses or certificate programs. International students make up more than 40 percent of our graduate student population, women comprise close to 50 percent, and minorities comprise nearly 20 percent. We pride ourselves on our diverse and stimulating campus culture. In many ways, graduate study is an apprenticeship. To be successful, you must commit to hours of concentrated work, independent research, and original writing. Graduate work takes time, patience, focus, discipline, and the willingness to make many personal sacrifices. Despite those challenges, the UMD campus, the Washington, DC metropolitan area, and the graduate student community can provide a most agreeable environment. We are delighted that you are considering a graduate program at the University of Maryland, College Park. We offer a wide array of distinguished programs in many disciplines, and we encourage you to explore them to find the one that best aligns with your interests. Please be sure to read all instructions and requirements carefully to ensure a proper and complete application, and to avoid mistakes that may delay the consideration of your application. Also, remember that the Graduate School and your program of interest are here to help guide you through the admissions process. Feel free to contact us with questions. Choose Maryland Student Stories List of Programs (A to Z) Admissions Requirements Application Process International Admissions Non-Degree Admissions Admissions Fee Waiver Eligibility Admissions FAQs Admissions Choose Maryland Student Stories List of Programs (A to Z) Admissions Requirements Application Process International Admissions Non-Degree Admissions Admissions Fee Waiver Eligibility Admissions FAQs Contact Information The Graduate School, University of Maryland 2123 Lee Building 7809 Regents Drive College Park, MD 20742 301-405-3644 gradschool@umd.edu Apply Now The Graduate School, University of Maryland 2123 Lee Building, 7809 Regents Drive College Park, MD 20742 301-405-3644 / gradschool@umd.edu Contact Us Provide Feedback Web Accessibility Stay Connected © 2022 University of Maryland All Rights Reserved