Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Graduate Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student life Afford Select to follow link Cost Funding & aid Apply Select to follow link English proficiency requirements International admissions requirements Plan Enroll Select to follow link Orientation International Students Info for Current students Military-affiliated students Admitted students COVID-19 guidance myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Graduate Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Applying to the University of Kansas Lifelong pursuits start here. Find a KU graduate program to match your mission, then familiarize yourself with individual needs and next steps. Begin your application Create an account, save progress, and complete when ready Apply Apply Explore graduate programs Browse more than 450 graduate programs and their application requirements. Programs English proficiency requirements Non-native English speakers are required to meet certain levels of English proficiency to gain admission to KU graduate programs. Common ways to demonstrate proficiency include previous degrees and test scores. Learn more KU’s graduate admissions process Minimum admission requirements Applicants must meet the following minimum requirements for admission to any graduate program at KU: Proof of a bachelor's degree (and any post-bachelor’s coursework or degrees) from a regionally accredited institution, or a foreign university with substantially equivalent bachelor's degree requirements Proof of English proficiency for non-native English speakers A grade-point average of 3.0 or higher (minimum GPA requirements will be at the school/college level for students who apply for spring 2022 and after) Program-specific admission requirements Each graduate program at KU determines what additional materials or criteria are required for admission. These may include, but are not limited to: A resume or curriculum vitae Writing samples A personal statement Exam test scores Minimum GPA Application requirements All applications must include: A fee, which will vary depending on your status. The fees are as follows: Domestic degree-seeking: $65 International degree-seeking: $85 Certificate-seeking: $30 Non-degree-seeking: $30 A scanned copy of proof of residency, if you are a permanent resident of the U.S. If you are a current or former KU student, you don’t need to provide official transcripts. Current and former KU students are not required to request and purchase official KU transcripts, or to provide official KU transcripts or copies of KU transcripts to apply for admission to KU graduate programs. If KU students earned a degree from another institution, they will need to upload copies of those transcripts with their application. If you have never attended KU, your application must include official transcripts from each college attended. For processing purposes, you may attach scanned versions of official transcripts to your application. If you are admitted to a program and accept the admission offer, you will be required to submit an official, final transcript that shows your degree has been conferred. For more guidance on transcripts from non-U.S. institutions, see our International applicants page. Transcripts must be submitted to Graduate Admissions in one of the following ways: Via mail Transcripts must be sent directly from your institution, in a sealed envelope, to: Graduate Admissions University of Kansas KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Electronically If your institution offers a secure electronic transcript delivery service, you may have transcripts sent to graduateadm@ku.edu. Official test scores Any applicable GRE or TOEFL test scores should be sent by ETS to KU's institution code 6871. References and recommendations Programs may require you to provide references and letters of recommendation as part of your application. If so, you’ll be prompted to provide names and contact information for each reference. Recommendation requests may be submitted through the application before the application is fully submitted, or at the time of submission. Your references will receive instructions on how to complete their recommendation. Recommendations received on your behalf prior to application submission will link to your application when it is submitted. If you are not prompted to provide references on your application, that could mean your program doesn’t accept online recommendation submissions or doesn’t require them. Check your application status We’ll email you after we receive your completed application. You can check your admission status at any time. Check Check Students with specific statuses International students Click to expand International graduate applicants will be asked to provide additional information and materials for processing immigration documents. Learn more about what you’ll need to apply to a graduate program. Non-degree-seeking students Click to expand Application fee: $30 If a student does not intend to work for an advanced degree or certificate, they are considered a non-degree-seeking student. Non-degree-seeking students may apply within a specific department, a program, a professional school, or the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences. If a non-degree-seeking student later applies and is accepted as a degree-seeking student, the total credits transferred may not exceed nine hours. Requirements To gain admission to a graduate program, non-degree-seeking applicants must Meet the English proficiency requirements for admission Provide evidence of a completed bachelor's degree, conferred by a regionally-accredited university or a foreign university with substantially equivalent degree requirements. A bachelor's degree may not be accepted if it was not evaluated in units that identify the academic content (e.g., if the work was graded on a P/F or S/U basis). Certificate-seeking students Click to expand Application Fee: $30 The University of Kansas offers a variety of certificate programs for both current graduate students and non-KU students; however, some certificate programs require enrollment in a degree-seeking program. Current KU degree-seeking students should contact their department about the application process. Non-KU students will need to apply for admission. Readmits Click to expand The Permit to Re-enroll is only intended for individuals who have enrolled in their graduate program in the past year. The permit to re-enroll form is not available to a student who: was dismissed from a program at KU was voluntarily discontinued (formally withdrew) from a graduate program completed the graduate degree program most recently enrolled as a non-degree-seeking graduate student Students will not be considered for readmission if they are currently on a leave of absence, if they have not been enrolled in the past year, or have earned a degree from the graduate degree program (See the Permit to Re-Enroll policy page for more information.) Before completing the form, students should verify with their graduate program that they are eligible to re-enroll. Dismissed students and those who withdrew from their program must submit a full application. graduateadm@ku.edu 785-864-3140 twitter Graduate Studies Staff Contact Policies Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.