Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean Accreditation Length of Degree & Completion Rates Publications FAQs Contact Grad School Academics Academics Graduate Program Advisers Graduate Programs Admission Admission Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Request Info Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements Financial Assistance Financial Assistance Assistantships/Fellowships External Funding Opportunities Research & Travel Grants Chapman Graduate Scholar Presentation Awards Tuition-Only Scholarships Loan Deferment Information Health Insurance Coverage Office of Financial Aid Research Research Research Colloquium Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Sponsored Programs Resources Resources Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses University Policies New Student Information Current Student Hub Redirect Events Graduate Student Ambassadors Graduate Student Organizations Studying Abroad Useful Links Quick Links News Events Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Graduate School > Graduate Admission > Admission Eligibility Admission Eligibility ADMISSION Apply Now Explore Graduate Programs Visit the Graduate School Tuition & Living Expenses Admission Eligibility Deadlines & Requirements Transfer Credit Policies English Language Requirements General Requirements Applicants must hold a baccalaureate or graduate degree from an accredited college or university. Applicants must meet any admission requirements set by the degree program in addition to those set by the Graduate School. Applicants whose academic work has been superior are admitted upon the approval of the degree program and the Dean of the Graduate School. Evaluation Criteria GPA: A grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale in the undergraduate major is required, but requirements may vary among programs and may be higher than 3.0. GRE or GMAT: Applicant must obtain a satisfactory score on the GRE General Test. Programs in the Collins College of Business do not require the GMAT or GRE exam, but submitting your scores may improve scholarship opportunities. Additionally, some programs may waive the GRE requirement. Speak to an advisor for more information or email grad@utulsa.edu. Fitness of character may also be considered as part of the admission process. International Applicants International applicants must hold a degree comparable to a regionally accredited U.S. bachelor’s degree and must have a record of strong academic performance comparable to a “B” or above average grades. Applicants for whom English is not their first language must take the TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo exam and have an official copy of their results sent to The University of Tulsa Graduate School. For more information on English language requirements, please review TU’s language proficiency policy. Applicants must submit a certified letter of financial support or a certified Confirmation of Financial Resources form. Applicants must submit to the Graduate School a copy of the personal data page from their passport before an I-20 can be issued. After all application materials have been received, two to three weeks are normally required to process an application. International students who require visas should allow at least four months for completed processing of all paperwork. Applications and transcripts will be held on file, and admission decisions will be valid for one calendar year. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT