Skip to main content Home Make a gift Menu Home About the campaign Across the university Good stories Make a gift Giving to Cornell For alumni, parents, and friends Contact us Close Menu Cornellians are united by a shared purpose. Cornellians are united by a shared purpose. Scroll to do the greatest good Skip About the campaign Across the university Skip stories Back to top “My ruling desire is to dispose of so much of my property as is not required for the reasonable wants of my family, in a manner that shall do the greatest good to the greatest number of the industrial classes of my native state, and at the same time to do the greatest good to the state itself, by elevating the character and standard of knowledge.” 1 1 The handwritten phrase "to do the greatest good" is taken directly from notes Ezra Cornell prepared to address the New York State Legislature about the founding of Cornell University in 1865. Over the next five years, Cornell University seeks to raise at least $5 billion and connect at least 200,000 Cornellians to one another and the university. Together, we will help Cornell remain an educational beacon, a source of solutions, and a bridge to the world. An educational beacon “ Some people do it through science. Some people do it through art. ” 2 2 Sam Jurado '24 + Sam is an undergraduate student in the College of Engineering majoring in earth and atmospheric sciences. "Some people do it through science. Some people do it through art. But I think, as humans, achieving that greatest good, helping other humans is in our nature." A source of solutions “ I got to 3D print PPE during the pandemic for healthcare workers.” 3 3 Karina Popovich '23 + Karina is an engineer, entrepreneur, and student in the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. "I get to teach other kids how to 3D print... I got to 3D print PPE during the pandemic for healthcare workers." A bridge to the world “ What I study is going to impact the livelihoods and the well-being of people around the world.” 4 4 Janani Hariharan PhD '22 + Janani is a PhD candidate studying soil microbial ecology in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. She's exploring the ecology and evolution of soil bacteria. In addition, she has worked with bird enzymes and human genes. "I believe my research is very well tied to Cornell's mission of doing the greatest good. What I study is going to impact the livelihoods and the well-being of people around the world." What can any one person do? Cornellians everywhere are joining this campaign to make a lasting difference for the world. Make a gift Connect Learn with us Share knowledge Volunteer Contact us Watch the video Now is the time to do the greatest good Learn more about the campaign, why it matters now, and the leaders guiding our efforts forward. About the campaign Find your cause There are 25 colleges and units—all doing transformational work in their fields. Find an area that matters to you (and the world). Across the university Cornellians are making a difference Meet the people who are making the world better every day. Good stories Now is the time to do the greatest good Learn more about the campaign, why it matters now, and the leaders guiding our efforts forward. About the campaign Find your cause There are 25 colleges and units—all doing transformational work in their fields. Find an area that matters to you (and the world). Across the university Cornellians are making a difference Meet the people who are making the world better every day. Good stories About the campaign Across the university Good stories Contact us Make a gift Giving to Cornell For alumni, parents, and friends About the campaign Across the university Good stories Contact us Make a gift © Cornell University, 2021 © Cornell University, 2022