Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State -A A +A The Ohio State University College of Optometry Optometry Services Locations Clinic Image Main Campus Clinic Clinic Image Upper Arlington Clinic Clinic Image Pickerington Clinic Clinic Image Student Health Services Clinic Image Lower Lights Christian Health Center Text Now open: A new site for your eyesight. Visit our Main Clinic appointment page to request an appointment at our brand new, state-of-the-art clinic at the corner of 11th and Neil. Main Content Text The Ohio State University Optometry Services Dr. Nixon Welcome! The Ohio State University College of Optometry has a rich tradition of producing leaders in eyecare. Our faculty optometrists are recognized experts in providing specialty optometric care such as contact lenses, low vision rehabilitation, binocular vision, vision therapy, pediatric optometry, and medical eyecare. Our clinical services strive to provide personalized care to meet the visual and eye health needs of all patients. Our facilities are equipped with new technology and exam procedures to provide contemporary care to patients of all ages. Call now to schedule an appointment for your entire family. We look forward to giving your vision the Buckeye advantage! Sincerely, Gregory J. Nixon OD, FAAO Associate Dean for Clinical Services Professor of Clinical Optometry Section Content Text Optometry Services Mission Statement We pledge to provide optimal, comprehensive vision and eye health care for our patients through our team of faculty, staff and students who employ their collective specialized knowledge of the visual system, in the patient's best interest, consistent with The Ohio State University's tradition of excellence in teaching, research and service and fiscal responsibility to the community. Left Image Left Image Caption https://go.osu.edu/optstore Right Text New online store! We have launched our new Ohio State Optometry Services online store for purchasing contact lenses, solutions, readers, dry eye masks, artificial tears, and more. If you have a valid contact lens prescription, you can simply log in to go.osu.edu/optstore, register to create an account, and order your contact lenses. Your order will be processed and shipped directly to your home, including subscription options. Text The College of Optometry on Instagram ©2022 The Ohio State University College of Optometry If you have trouble accessing this page and need to request an alternate format, please contact the College of Optometry's Webmaster. Footer Privacy Statement Nondiscrimination Statement Gently Used Eyewear