Skip to main content Home Make a gift Menu Home About the campaign Across the university Good stories Make a gift Giving to Cornell For alumni, parents, and friends Contact us Close Menu Across the university Learn more about campaign priorities from across Cornell. With 25 colleges and units—all doing transformational work in their fields—you’re bound to find a project that matters to you (and the world). Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering College of Human Ecology College of Veterinary Medicine Cornell Athletics and Physical Education Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Cornell Botanic Gardens Cornell Graduate School Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Cornell Lab of Ornithology Cornell Law School Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Cornell Tech Cornell University Library Global Cornell ILR School Johnson Museum of Art Student & Campus Life Weill Cornell Medicine Learn more about the campaign Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Back to Top > Cornell Bowers CIS is expanding fields of inquiry, developing the core computing and information technologies that power the information economy, and examining the societal, sustainability, and ethical implications of technological innovation. Support Bowers CIS Learn more Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Leading the way in tech innovation "Seated at the intersection of computing and data with the humanities and social sciences, Cornell Bowers CIS is poised for continued, critical impact through its scholarship, research, and education that deepen knowledge and understanding; offer broad societal reach; bridge the divides among academia, practice, and industry; and connect the science of today with the possibilities of tomorrow."—Kavita Bala, Dean of the Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Explore Bowers CIS College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Back to Top > As a premier institution of scientific exploration, the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) connects the life, agricultural, environmental, and social sciences to provide world-class education, spark unexpected discoveries, and inspire pioneering solutions. Cornell CALS fosters intellectual exploration, an interdisciplinary culture, meaningful impact, and purpose-driven science for all members of our community. In short, CALS is Life. Changing. Support CALS Learn more College of Agriculture and Life Sciences "Creating a more just, sustainable, resilient, and healthy world" “There is no better place than CALS to transform the power of disciplinary strength into collective, multi-disciplinary solutions—creating a more just, sustainable, resilient and healthy world for all.”—Benjamin Z. Houlton, Ronald P. Lynch Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Global Development. Explore CALS College of Architecture, Art, and Planning Back to Top > Cornell University’s College of Architecture, Art, and Planning (AAP) is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Support AAP Learn more College of Architecture, Art, and Planning The agency to respond to today's urgencies As a think tank and do tank for our communities, culture, and for our built environment, we bring all of our collective imagination, creative intelligence, and critical agency to invent, explore, and produce new knowledge around the greatest challenges of our time. Explore AAP College of Arts and Sciences Back to Top > In this era of rapid social, environmental, and technological change the liberal arts model of education has been shown to be more relevant than ever for educating the world’s future leaders, and ours is among the world’s best. Explore A&S Learn more College of Arts and Sciences A home for exploration and discovery The College of Arts and Sciences is the home of foundational, theoretical, and basic research at Cornell. Our researchers and scholars are all curiosity-driven and often collaborate across disciplines and colleges, partnering with applied scientists and researchers to tackle our greatest challenges. Explore A&S College of Engineering Back to Top > Cornell Engineering is uniquely positioned to take on society’s biggest challenges and make the world a better place for all. Our diverse, collaborative community has the expertise, ingenuity, and entrepreneurial spirit necessary to develop and implement innovative solutions to problems of unprecedented scale and complexity. Support Engineering Learn more College of Engineering "A sense of satisfaction that you can't get anywhere else" “When you make the final product, and you're actually able to share it with the world, that’s a sense of satisfaction that you can't get anywhere else.”—Neha Malepati ’24 Neha is a former participant and current student leader in Cornell Engineering’s CURIE Academy, which offers young women excelling in math and science in high school the opportunity to explore engineering fields. Read more College of Human Ecology Back to Top > From the food we eat, to the clothing we wear, the buildings we inhabit, the families and communities in which we exist, and the policies that affect our lives, the College of Human Ecology seeks to understand and impact the multilayered influences on human health and wellbeing. Support Human Ecology Learn more College of Human Ecology The publicly engaged college of the future “Our students learn the most about the world—and will eventually contribute more to it—by thoughtfully interacting with more of it.”—Anthony Burrow, Associate Dean for Outreach and Extension, Director of the Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research and Ferris Family Associate Professor of Life Course Studies In the College of Human Ecology, we will do the greatest good by becoming the publicly engaged college of the future through our investment in students, faculty, and innovation. Explore Human Ecology College of Veterinary Medicine Back to Top > The Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine leads, enables, and inspires others to attain a healthier world for animals and people. Support Veterinary Medicine Learn more College of Veterinary Medicine "Making a positive difference in the world" “The veterinary profession arms us with myriad ways to make a positive difference in the world.”—Lorin D. Warnick, D.V.M., Ph.D. ’94, Austin O. Hooey Dean of Veterinary Medicine The time, expertise, facilities, equipment, and resources required are expensive, as with any health profession degree. In addition to excellent medical and scientific training, we must also help our students manage costs of education and prepare them for successful careers. Read more Cornell Athletics and Physical Education Back to Top > Sports and recreational activities support total well-being and empower students of all abilities, backgrounds, and interests by teaching leadership, trust, teamwork, and commitment. Support Big Red Learn more Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Back to Top > As the hub of groundbreaking sustainability research at Cornell, the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability is generating bold ideas to solve the world’s most pressing issues. Support Atkinson Learn more Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability We’re creating vital connections The missing link in the sustainability arena has been a defined pathway for taking knowledge to impact—to convert the research and discovery into large-scale, long-term solutions in the world. Cornell Atkinson provides that bridge. Explore Atkinson Cornell Botanic Gardens Back to Top > Cornell Botanic Gardens connects plants and people, cultivates flowers and plants, conserves natural areas, and enriches Cornell's teaching and research programs. Support the Botanic Gardens Learn more Cornell Graduate School Back to Top > Cornell-trained graduate students are at the heart of our research enterprise, creating and applying solutions to the planet’s most intractable challenges as the next generation of global leaders, thinkers, and problem-solvers. Support the Grad School Learn more Cornell Graduate School "My research is important for human health" “I study how our immune system detects and responds to infection, focusing on macrophages, which are a type of immune cell that expresses molecules called Toll-Like Receptors (TLRs). My research is important for human health because if we know how TLRs and macrophages alert the body to infection, we can improve the activity of vaccines or develop new ways to treat infectious diseases.”—Karla García-Martínez Karla García-Martínez is a doctoral candidate in biomedical and biological sciences with a concentration in immunology infectious diseases and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Gilliam Fellow. Read more Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Back to Top > The Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy unites Cornell’s wide-ranging expertise in policy scholarship and engagement to solve complex global policy challenges and improve lives around the world. Support Brooks Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy "Making our world safer, healthier, and more prosperous" “We can make our world safer, healthier, and more prosperous for everyone.”—Colleen L. Barry, founding dean of the Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy The Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy creates a foundation to tackle critical problems by leveraging and developing strengths in environmental and sustainability policy, health policy, human security, inequality and social policy, the politics and economics of development, data science and technology policy, and race, racism, and public policy. Read more Cornell Lab of Ornithology Back to Top > Dedicated to advancing the protection of birds and the natural world, the Lab of Ornithology works to find scientific solutions to the pressing conservation challenges facing our planet. Support the Lab of Ornithology Learn more Cornell Law School Back to Top > Through robust experience and practical learning, we develop broad-minded and technically sophisticated future lawyers and leaders who are bringing justice to a world in crisis. Support the Law School Learn more Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Back to Top > One college, three schools—where business breadth meets specialized depth. At the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, we believe business can be the single greatest force to build a better world. We believe that business is about collaboration. We believe excellence and expertise underpin achievement. We build people-centered leaders who are empowered to create sustainable, shared prosperity. That’s how we do business—with impact. Support SC Johnson College Learn more Cornell SC Johnson College of Business "An equal shot at the future" “Education is the greatest equalizer that we have, because it truly does give everyone an equal shot at the future.”—Peter Nolan ’80, MBA ’82 Peter Nolan and Stephanie Nolan ’84 gave a historic $50 million gift on September 17, 2021 that established the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration and provides scholarship funding to expand educational access for future generations of hospitality business leaders. The Nolans’ landmark gift was matched, one-to-three, and will generate more than $16 million for financial aid to support students in the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management and the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. Read more Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Back to Top > The Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management prepares tomorrow’s leaders to apply business and economic principles to address the toughest societal challenges. We empower students, faculty, and alumni to use business for the greater good. Our business is a better world. Support Dyson Learn more Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Back to Top > At the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration, we provide the most relevant, groundbreaking hospitality business education in the world, and have done so for a century. For Hotelies, life is service. Support Nolan Learn more Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Back to Top > Future leaders come to the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management to transform their ambition into impact. Our world-class graduate business programs prepare leaders to create positive change–in their organizations, in their communities, and in the world. Support Johnson Learn more Cornell Tech Back to Top > Cornell Tech is Cornell University’s groundbreaking campus for technology research and education in New York City, where faculty, students, and industry partners work together in an ultra-collaborative environment to build a better world. Support Cornell Tech Learn more Cornell University Library Back to Top > The Library inspires and empowers Cornell's research and learning community through innovative services, deep expertise, and outstanding digital and print collections. Support the Library Learn more Cornell University Library Empowering the Mind The Library is a center of learning, discovery, and innovation. It is home away from home for our students, a resource critical to the success of Cornell researchers, and a vibrant community dedicated to intellectual growth. It is where helpful experts complement world-class collections in the service of knowledge. Learn more Global Cornell Back to Top > Global Cornell is a community of belonging with a border-crossing spirit of exploration, learning, and shared discovery. Our internationally engaged units foster high-impact international research and collaborations, teach and mentor the next generation of global citizens, and support international experiences and cultural exchange for all Cornellians. Support Global Cornell Learn more Global Cornell To Do the Greatest Good—worldwide. "Cornell's campuses are physically located in a small handful of places, but the future is global—the biggest challenges and opportunities today are ones that span the world, and Cornell students and faculty need to be ever-more prepared to meet those. This campaign will help us to do the greatest good—for us and for the world—with lasting impacts." —Wendy Wolford, Vice Provost for International Affairs Learn more about our units ILR School Back to Top > As the preeminent educational institution in the world focused on work, we are dedicated to generating and disseminating knowledge that improves the lives of workers and advances the future of work. Support ILR Learn more ILR School Advancing the future of work Since our founding in 1945, the ILR School has been at the heart of extraordinary changes in the workplace. ILR is the top educational institution in the world focused on work, employment, and labor. Not only is work part of our everyday lives, it is a source of dignity, pride, and respect. At ILR, we are working to solve the challenges of an increasingly global workforce, address inequality in the workplace, and educate students to advance the future of work. Watch the video Johnson Museum of Art Back to Top > The Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art is a place where people convene around great works of art to stretch their thinking and consider different perspectives on our world today. We feature daring exhibitions, a world-class collection, and dynamic cross-disciplinary teaching for the Cornell community and beyond. Support the Johnson Museum Learn more Johnson Museum of Art A place of delight, inspiration, and great intellectual curiosity Ask bold questions. Gain new insights. Explore the Johnson’s global collection to better understand our interconnected world. Explore the Johnson Museum Student & Campus Life Back to Top > At the heart of the student experience, Student & Campus Life strives to create an environment at Cornell where students can find a sense of belonging, grow into who they want to be, and be prepared to set off into the world to do the greatest good. Support SCL Learn more Weill Cornell Medicine Back to Top > Weill Cornell Medicine's vision for the future means expanding and elevating our ability to care, discover and teach. Our campaign to raise $1.5 billion will help us continue caring for the whole patient for their whole life, bring together visionary scientists and clinicians to make revolutionary breakthroughs, and train medicine's future leaders. Learn more Weill Cornell Medicine "Changing medicine for the better" “Leveraging our strengths and sharing our talents with the world, we’re changing medicine for the better, but there is always more work to do. By further investing in what makes us special, we can realize our new vision of health care. I am so excited about what we can—and must—accomplish together with this new campaign.”—Sanford I. Weill Building on a legacy of groundbreaking advances in medicine and science, Weill Cornell Medicine has launched the ambitious $1.5 billion We're Changing Medicine campaign that will harness emerging biomedical innovations to bring exemplary care to patients and create enduring change in medicine. Read more About the campaign Across the university Good stories Contact us Make a gift Giving to Cornell For alumni, parents, and friends About the campaign Across the university Good stories Contact us Make a gift © Cornell University, 2021 © Cornell University, 2022