Skip to main content Give Now Projects Facebook Twitter Instagram Contact Us Toggle navigation FSU’s Great Give Give Now Learn More Projects Incentives Donor Roll Leaderboard History Toolkit Contact Us 4537 Donors Raised $1,693,923 We'll See You In 2023 In Only 24 Hours 4537 Donors Raised $1,693,923 Thank you for your support of FSU’s Great Give! Stay tuned for the winners of our 24-hour incentives. Missed FSU’s Great Give? You can still make a difference at FSU by making your gift today at give.fsu.edu. × Previous Incentive Winner Last Chance Winner: FSU Black Alumni Scholarship in the Alumni Association with 20 donors Your browser does not support iframes, but you can use the following link. <a href="https://spark.fsu.edu/GreatGive/Infographic" title="">Link</a> During FSU’s Great Give, 4537 donors raised funds for Florida State academic programs, scholarships and student activities. Thank you for your support of FSU’s Great Give. Once all of the gifts are verified*, we will post our final totals online. We also will share results on Facebook and Twitter. *Fundraising totals shown are not final. All gifts received require processing and validation, and the official total may vary from the amount shown above. Learn More Projects Incentives Donor Roll Leaderboard Contact Us Thank you to our FSU Foundation Board of Trustees for their support of FSU’s giving day through their sponsorship of incentives Support What Matters to You Academic Affairs View Projects Alumni Association View Projects Coastal & Marine Lab View Projects College of Arts & Sciences View Projects College of Business View Projects College of Communication and Information View Projects College of Criminology and Criminal Justice View Projects College of Education View Projects FAMU-FSU College of Engineering View Projects College of Fine Arts View Projects College of Health and Human Sciences View Projects College of Law View Projects College of Medicine View Projects College of Motion Picture Arts View Projects College of Music View Projects College of Nursing View Projects College of Social Sciences and Public Policy View Projects College of Social Work View Projects Dedman College of Hospitality View Projects Foundation Other View Projects The Graduate School View Projects International Programs View Projects Jim Moran College of Entrepreneurship View Projects Libraries View Projects Opening Nights Performing Arts View Projects Panama City View Projects The Ringling Museum View Projects Seminole Boosters View Website Student Affairs View Projects Student Veterans Center View Projects Sustainable Campus View Projects Undergraduate Studies View Projects Women for FSU View Projects WFSU Public Media Donate Now View All Projects Connect With #FSUGreatGive More Ways to Connect More Ways to Give Faculty/Staff Payroll Deduction Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Alumni Association 1030 West Tennessee Street Tallahassee, FL 32304 Seminole Boosters University Center C5100 Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Foundation 325 W College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32301 Contact Us • Social Media Toolkit US Privacy Policy • EU Privacy Policy • State Non-Profit Disclosures © Copyright , Florida State University Foundation, All Rights Reserved. Support What Matters to You Close Close