Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Climate change is the environmental issue of our time. The UW is a world-class research center in climate-related topics; in fact climate change’s centrality to our academic life is reflected in a Guiding Principle of this Sustainability Strategy. We’re going to follow through on our sustainability commitment by embarking on a major energy planning process to drastically reduce the Seattle Campus district heating system’s demand for fossil fuels, and reduce our dependence on utility energy with solar photovoltaic power on all our campuses. This Target is relative to a 2005 baseline, for consistency with Washington State law. All other Targets in the UW Sustainability Plan are relative to a 2020 baseline. Target actions for 2022 Electrify UW Transportation Services Plan to repower the Seattle campus Implement campus solar plan View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Electrify UW Transportation Services UW aspires to convert its fleet to all-electric (EVs) and hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) (with the exception of selected emergency vehicles), deliver a full complement of vehicle charging equipment for fl eet and public use in campus parking facilities. Current opportunities to recoup charging costs are limited to parking permit fees and fleet rental agreements, though EV charging raises capital and utility costs. The estimated 14 megawatts (MW) of installed solar capacity possible on UW transportation assets (parking lots) could produce approximately 14 gigawatt hours (GWhs) of electricity per year, if fully deployed, which is currently about 5 percent of Seattle campus electricity demand. Another 500 and 170 kW are available on Bothell and Tacoma lots, respectively. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Target 50-70 vehicle replacements per year transitioning from ICE (internal combustion engines) to EV as market forces allow, pursuing new vehicle asset classes after initial prices decline to fleet and economy rates. Implement charging infrastructure in concert with transition to EV and solar canopy installation, and develop a consolidated rate structure and implementation solution for parking with charging. Implement a two-pronged strategy for solar canopy and EV charging installation in coordination with the Campus Solar Plan of utility scale systems based on available finance and small systems specific to existing user characteristics. Responsible party Transportation Services Statuses and linkages Analysis of the opportunity to electrify the UW Seattle fleet and parking services and capacity for parking to house solar canopies has been completed and a report will be released in June 2021. The same analysis has been applied to the Bothell and Tacoma campuses. There are linkages between these targets and actions, and the goal of reducing commuting to campus via single occupancy vehicles.. Financing The strategy to electrify UW Transportation Services is shown in Steps 1, 2, and 3. Step 1, though currently tied to the vehicle replacement schedule and reduced cost of ownership to UWT for EV in comparison to ICE, can accelerate as additional funds become available. Step 2 requires a review and development of a rate policy to recoup the cost of capital investment and electricity for charging. Step 3 capital investments and charging infrastructure are suitable for capitalization through the green revolving fund. Full buildout of 14 MW of solar requires an estimated total $28 - $30 million in capital expenditures plus an additional $438,000 for electrical distribution upgrades. Besides the funding stream from electric surcharges, we forecast $46-48 million in cost avoidance from vehicle fuels and utility payments. Metrics Progress toward completion of the Action will be measured by: Number of UW fleet vehicles transitioned from ICE to either EV or PHEV. kW of charger-connected solar capacity. Number of parking spaces having charger access. A proposed rate structure and payment method for vehicle charging. Action: Plan to repower the Seattle campus UW aspires to complete, by December 31, 2021, a Campus Energy phased strategic approach that outlines a pathway forward for a significant decarbonization of the Seattle campus by 2030, or earlier. Development of the plan will include key stakeholder involvement led by the Campus Energy Program Manager. During the process of creating the Campus Energy Plan, the Stakeholder team will consider options for evaluating technological and financially viable strategies for achieving the carbon reduction goals while maintaining reliable and cost effective service – including heat and steam sterilization – to the hospital and other campus buildings. Besides technological innovation, this project will require financial innovation as well. Modernizing the Seattle campus district heating system will be among UW’s largest capital projects to date, and multiple financing models need to be comparatively evaluated. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Engage in the planning and design of the current 2021 maintenance and repair project intended to enhance the power plant reliability “Power Plant Phase 1 Infrastructure Renewal.” Engagement to focus on evaluating options for reduced energy consumption. Conduct a long term strategic planning summit with “key stakeholders” with an outcome defining an overall approach for a phased transition towards significant decarbonization of the Seattle campus heating & cooling plants by 2030. Leverage the approach defined in strategic planning summit to scope and fund required consulting services, studies and/ or preliminary design efforts for phases moving forward. Responsible party UW Facilities Statuses and linkages In March 2020, UW Facilities issued a Request for Information (RFI) to solicit ideas from experts around the country for planning, building, and financing a low-carbon energy system. These responses are currently being reviewed by the Energy Roadmap Team which includes support from the Engineering Services and UW Sustainability departments. Several other universities have completed or launched similar projects. Stanford University recently completed a new combined heating and cooling plant that is perceived as a particularly successful example. The new Stanford plant, when combined with solar power procurement, reduced Stanford GHG emissions by about 72 percent from its peak levels. Financing A thorough review of the engineering and financial options is needed before assigning a budget estimate to such a large scale project. UW is targeting development to start in 2023, with first phase completion in 2028. Metrics Completion of each listed FY2022 Step shall serve as the measure of progress during FY2022. Action: Implement campus solar plan Develop and implement a phased roll out of campus solar plans for UW Seattle, Tacoma, and Bothell campuses. On the Seattle campus, 173 out of 372 buildings are suitable for solar photovoltaics and could support 15 megawatts (MW) of capacity, or 15 gigawatt-hours (GWh) of electricity per year, which is equivalent to about 5 percent of campus electricity demand. (This is in addition to the 14 MW of solar potential on parking areas described in the action to Electrify UW Transportation Services.) At UW Bothell, 13 of the 28 buildings analyzed are suitable, for a capacity of 1.2 MW (with another 500 kW potential on garages and lots). At UW Tacoma, there are 18 out of 33 buildings suitable for a capacity of 1 MW (and about 180 kW in parking canopies). The Seattle campus currently has 6 rooftop arrays, while Bothell has 6 arrays, most of which are on transportation assets. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Review and approve a Campus Solar Plan, with identified funding mechanisms, for developing solar assets on campus buildings by 2035. Anticipated completion: December 31, 2021. Revise campus design guidelines to include solar and related infrastructure investments for new and existing buildings. Anticipated completion: March 31, 2022. Install 1 MW per year on buildings and 1 MW per year as canopies on transportation assets. Anticipated completion: June 31, 2022 for year one and action is ongoing. Responsible party UW Resource Conservation in coordination with UW Solar Statuses and linkages Solar installations on UW campuses also reduce building energy usage intensity, and can be integrated into thermal systems for compounded savings. On the Seattle campus, solar energy reduces the peak load demand for electricity, buying time to make larger scale investments needed to decarbonize the power plant. UW hosts solar photovoltaics developed by the UW Solar Group, part of the UW Clean Energy Institute, on the Mercer A Apartments (35 kW), Alder Hall (50 kW), Elm Hall (25 kW), Maple Hall (25 kW), the Life Sciences Building (105 kW), in rooftop and solar shading fins). In addition, research and student projects have resulted in arrays on the IMA Building, Merrill Hall, Power Plant roof, and the Mechanical Engineering Building. University of Washington’s Bothell campus also hosts 122 kW of solar photovoltaic, on the library building and parking garages. Financing Solar, with reduced utility costs as returns on investment, fit the parameters for finance with a revolving fund. There is also potential for investments from local utilities, the U.S. Department of Energy, donors, or other parties. Current capital costs estimates are $2-2.5 M per MW, which save 130 percent of these costs in avoided utility payments over the 25 years of the warranty. Metrics Quarterly progress of completing campus solar plan and campus design guidelines. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Electrify UW Transportation Services The UW manages a fleet of more than 700 vehicles and over 100 surface parking areas or garages for commuters and guests, with the potential to host over 14 megawatts (MW) of photovoltaic capacity in the form of solar canopies. By 2030, the UW aspires to convert its fleet to all-electric and hybrid- electric vehicles (with the exception of snow plows and other emergency maintenance vehicles), deliver a full complement of vehicle charging equipment for fleet and public use in campus parking facilities and supplement renewable electricity with solar canopies on campus parking facilities. The estimated 14 megawatts (MW) of installed solar capacity possible on UW transportation assets could produce approximately 14 gigawatt hours (GWhs) of electricity per year, if fully deployed. About 20 percent of the current UW surface parking area would be required to service an all-electric UW Fleet, potentially offsetting 3.5 million miles travelled, or 2.8 million pounds of CO2e per year. If all 14 MW of potential capacity were realized, the system of solar canopies could power 50 million vehicle miles traveled per year, reducing commuter emissions by about 18,000 metric tons of CO2e per year (about 40% of commuting related emissions). Steps we will take in FY 2021 Complete and approve a strategy for transitioning the UW Fleet to electric vehicles by 2030, excepting emergency maintenance vehicles. Anticipated completion: December, 2020. Complete and approve a strategy, including funding mechanisms, to develop electric vehicle charging infrastructure across UW parking facilities by 2030. Anticipated completion: March, 2021. (concurrent with Step 2) Review and approve a strategy and funding methodology for developing solar canopy infrastructure on campus parking assets by 2030. Anticipated completion: March, 2021. Responsible party Transportation Services Statuses and linkages Analysis of the opportunity to electrify the UW Seattle fleet and parking services, and capacity for parking to house solar canopies, has been completed, and a report will be released for review in Fall, 2020. The same analysis can be applied to the Bothell and Tacoma campuses in Fall, 2020. There are linkages between these targets and actions, and the goal of reducing commuting to campus via single occupancy vehicle. Financing Electric vehicles will be gradually added to the UW Fleet as older vehicles are retired. Steps 2 and 3, the development of charging infrastructure and solar canopies respectively, will require capital investment, but can recover cost through surcharges on the electricity delivered to plugged-in EVs. Seed funding will be required for the first two biennia (four years), but thereafter electric sales revenue can be used to continue expanding buildout of chargers and canopies in the form of a revolving fund. Full buildout of 14 MW of solar is estimated to require a total $28 - $30 million in capital expenditures plus an additional $438,000 for electrical distribution upgrades. Besides the funding stream from electric surcharges, we forecast $46 - 48 million in cost avoidance from vehicle fuels. Metrics Progress toward completion of the Action will be measured by: Percentage of UW fleet vehicles that are plug-in electric vehicles. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles will be included in the count. GW of charger-connected solar capacity. Percentage of parking spaces having charger access. This Action can gain points in STARS credits OP-6 Clean & Renewable Energy where UW shows a point gap of 3.93. Action: Plan to Repower the Seattle Campus The single largest source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at UW is the central heating & cooling plant on the Seattle Campus. The central plant relies on fossil gas to provide steam heat and related services to over 13 million square feet of building space (136 buildings). Emissions from the central plant have not changed appreciably since 2009, despite the Seattle campus enrollment increasing 12% and building footprint increasing 20% during this time. In fact, on a per-square-foot basis, UW GHG emissions are improving. Yet, to meet greenhouse gas reductions required by Washington state law we will need to radically change the nature of how thermal energy is generated in Seattle. UW aspires to complete, by December 31, 2021, a Campus Energy Plan that features a pathway for a significant decarbonization of the Seattle campus heating & cooling plant by 2030, or earlier. Development of the plan will be piloted by an Energy Program Manager. During the process of creating the Campus Energy Plan, the Energy Program Manager’s team will consider every possible technology available for achieving the carbon reduction goals while maintaining reliable service – including heat and steam sterilization – to the hospital and other campus buildings. Besides technological innovation, this project will require financial innovation as well. Modernizing the Seattle campus district heating system will be among UW’s largest capital projects to date, and multiple financing models need to be compared. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Hire an Energy Program Manager with the engineering and finance qualifications to oversee the heating plant and district energy renewal from start to finish. Issue an RFP for, and contract, a consultant (owner’s advocate) capable of helping UW select the best mix of technologies for the Seattle campus. Develop engineering scope and funding pathway for a pilot project to use waste condenser heat from the West Central Utility Plant to reduce steam heating in nearby buildings. Responsible party UW Facilities Statuses and linkages In March 2020, UW Facilities issued a Request for Information (RFI) to solicit ideas from experts around the country for planning, building, and financing a low-carbon energy system. These responses are currently being reviewed by the Energy Roadmap Team which includes support from the Engineering Services and UW Sustainability departments. Several other universities have completed or launched similar projects. Stanford University recently completed a new combined heating and cooling plant that is perceived as a particularly successful example. The new Stanford plant, when combined with solar power procurement, reduced Stanford GHG emissions by about 72 percent from its peak levels. Financing A thorough review of the engineering and financial options is needed before assigning a budget estimate to such a large scale project. UW is targeting development to start in 2023, with first phase completion in 2028. Metrics Completion of each listed FY2021 Step shall serve as the measure of progress during FY2021. Decarbonization (whether partial or total) of the Seattle campus central heating & cooling system will gain points in STARS credits OP-2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions where UW shows a point gap of 3.91. Depending on the fuel used for energy generation, the project may also gain points toward OP-6 Clean & Renewable Energy where UW shows a point gap of 3.93. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA