Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us Campuses Contact us Green U Health Green U RSMAS Media - Archives -Awards Mission & Climate commitment Newsletter subscription Our Staff Sustainability Planning Topics Curriculum Climate Energy Food and Well-being Green buildings Nature Supply Chain Transportation Waste Diversion Water Programs Green Alumni and Ever Brighter Green Athletics Green Event Green Housing Green Lab Program Green Liaisons Program Green Office Program Sustainability 101 Sustainability at the U Module U Green Revolving Reserve Get involved Green Student Organizations Interns and volunteers at Green U Staff and Faculty Green Liaisons Student Government ECO Agency Events ECO Agency About Us Topics Programs Get involved Events ECO Agency Search About Us Campuses Contact us Green U Health Green U RSMAS Media - Archives -Awards Mission & Climate commitment Newsletter subscription Our Staff Sustainability Planning Topics Curriculum Climate Energy Food and Well-being Green buildings Nature Supply Chain Transportation Waste Diversion Water Programs Green Alumni and Ever Brighter Green Athletics Green Event Green Housing Green Lab Program Green Liaisons Program Green Office Program Sustainability 101 Sustainability at the U Module U Green Revolving Reserve Get involved Green Student Organizations Interns and volunteers at Green U Staff and Faculty Green Liaisons Student Government ECO Agency Events ECO Agency Home AAA UM receives STARS Gold for the 2nd time in a row! > Solar Together Learn more > Apply now Green Office > Sports for Climate Action with UM Athletics > UM Libraries SDGs research guide > Sustainable Garden UM’s Sustainable Garden located next to the Gifford Arboretum is available to everyone and is a fantastic way to get involved on campus. Take the first step toward a plant-based diet, not only for your health, but for the health of our planet. Visit miami.edu/gardens for more information! Climate Resilience Academy The University of Miami will launch a new Climate Resilience Academy, a functional research and coordinating interdisciplinary hub to solve impacts of climate change and other complex global issues. Learn more Green Alumni and Ever Brighter The Ever Brighter campaign offers opportunities for donors with Climate and Environment Fundraising Priorities. Discover the Sustainability journey of Canes alumni. Learn more Green Lab Program The Green lab checklist provides free and easy steps to make your lab greener. Visit miami.edu/greenlabs to learn more Join Our Newsletter Keep up-to-date on all things sustainable! Join Our Newsletter Keep up-to-date on all things sustainable! "It makes far better sense to reshape ourselves to fit a finite planet than to attempt to reshape the planet to fit our infinite wants." David Orr, 1991. Sustainability Report In 2019, University of Miami earned a STARS Gold rating in recognition of its sustainability performance from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education. The Sustainability Report 2020 offers you a glimpse at the diversity of sustainable achievements the university has made in the last three years. We encourage any member of the UM community to consult the STARS 2019 Gold report , the Sustainability Report 2020, and send your comments and suggestions to greenu@miami.edu. Learn more Green U ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami 1535 Levante Ave; room 208b. Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8520 305-284-8520 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices