Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order: Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability Executive Order: Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability Close Menu Home Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards UW Executive Order Number 13, Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability, was approved by President Michael Young on August 30, 2012, and has been reviewed by the Faculty Senate, Board of Deans, the Environmental Stewardship Committee and the policy sub-teams. The Order, an umbrella statement confirming the UW’s longstanding commitment to sustainability, will serve as a guiding principle for future sustainability policy development and pursuit of the UW’s Climate Action Plan goals and objectives. Below is the Executive Order, which can also be seen in the UW Policy Directory. 1. Background Environmental stewardship and sustainability are very important to the University's mission. The University's legacy to the future includes establishing programs that excel in environmental education and guiding investments that optimize the living and built campus environments. The University adopted a Climate Action Plan in 2009, setting out broad goals and strategies and proposed actions to take the University forward. 2. Policy The University of Washington will strive to be a model of environmental stewardship and sustainability by identifying and supporting efficient, cost-effective, sustainable practices in all its operations. These efforts will include reducing the University's use of energy, shifting to renewable energy sources, and decreasing its emission of greenhouse gases and other harmful materials. The University will reduce its consumption of materials, shift to renewably-produced materials, and increase the reuse, recycling, and composting of these materials, including food waste. The University will use the power of its research and teaching to develop solutions to environmental challenges and promote ecological knowledge and awareness. The University will be a leader in implementing best practices and will demonstrate flexibility in adapting to new information, changing approaches, and emerging technologies. The scope of these efforts will encompass all University operations, including: the planning, design, construction, and performance monitoring of facilities; user behaviors and activities in areas such as commuting, travel, land use, and information technology; and the overall cycle of procurement, consumption, and disposal of commodities. 3. Accountability The Environmental Stewardship Committee shall provide periodic reports to the President and Board of Regents reviewing progress toward these policy objectives. 4. Scope of Policy and Variances This policy applies to all University of Washington departments, offices, and units at the Seattle, Bothell, and Tacoma campuses and medical centers. If the environmental and business trade-offs of a particular action cannot be resolved within a particular unit despite exploring all available and reasonable resources, the conflict will be brought to the Environmental Stewardship Committee for review and assistance in finding a resolution. August 30, 2012. The Climate Action Plan recommends that the Environmental Stewardship Committee leads the development and adoption of sustainability policies and priorities (Section 7.1). Executive Order No. 13 gives the Environmental Stewardship Committee the accountability of meeting this Climate Action Plan goal. Home Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA