Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Maps and Campus History Sustainable Campus Walking Tour Sustainable Campus Walking Tour Close Menu Home Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability Take a virtual tour of sustainability features at the University of Washington! Scroll down in the window to see the different points on the map, or click below to see the map in a larger window. You can also see a PDF version of the map. View larger map PDF/print version of the walking tour Download PDF version West Campus West Campus Utility Plant - WCUP supplies chilled water and emergency power to buildings on the west side of the UW’s campus. One of the plant’s visible sustainability features are the rain gardens to filter runoff. Video screens facing the street display information and stories about sustainability at the UW. Biodiversity Green Wall - Hanging on the east side of Gould Hall are two large green walls, featuring primarily native plants that provide habitat for birds and insects. The green wall utilizes recycled rain water and reduces building energy needs by capturing heat during the day and releasing it at night. The wall was funded through a Campus Sustainability Fund grant. District Market/Husky Grind - UW Housing & Food Services (HFS) is recognized as a national leader in sustainable dining, and emphasizes organic, local and fair-trade food on campus. District Market includes fresh produce and a full-service deli. Enjoy a cup of ethically sourced coffee at Husky Grind. Local Point - This HFS campus dining location offers many different food options with sustainability in mind. Look for the plant-forward selections available at Tero, part of the “Menus of Change” initiative. Mercer Court - These residence halls feature rooftop solar panels, as well as a cistern which stores and filters rainwater to provide water for laundry. The space between the buildings is used by the UW Farm to grow produce. Sustainable Learning Space - This student-designed garden space features native plants, hand-crafted wood benches, nature-themed quotes, a bioswale and rain garden. Funded in part by a Campus Sustainability Fund grant, the space serves as an outdoor classroom and community space as well as a memorial to former Program on the Environment administrator Tikvah Weiner. North Campus Grieg Garden - This hidden space is especially cozy during springtime when rhododendrons and azaleas fill the area with a variety of colors. Enter the lush green space and you may find a number of different wildlife species, including heron nests. A statue of Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg looks out over the secluded space. Learn more in this video from the College of Arts & Sciences. Look for a Wildlife Tree as you leave the Garden on the way to the Quad, a dead tree left standing to provide food, shelter and a nesting area for birds and wildlife. Quad - The Liberal Arts Quadrangle is one of the most iconic spots on the UW campus. Each spring, visitors flock to the Quad to see the cherry trees in bloom. Paccar Hall - This LEED Gold certified building is home to the Foster Business School. It includes many sustainability features, including energy and water conservation measures, utilizing natural light throughout, and a green roof. North Campus Residence Halls - The new Madrona Hall, McCarty Hall and Willow Hall buildings incorporate many sustainability features. The residence halls include spaces for shared learning opportunities to foster community, and the landscaping around the buildings was created with pedestrians in mind. Willow Hall also houses the Center Table dining facility, which includes allergen-free and globally-inspired food stations. wǝɫǝbʔaltxw Intellectual House - wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House is a longhouse-style facility on campus that serves as a multi-service learning and gathering space for Native American students, faculty and staff. The goal is to increase Native American students’ success at the university and prepare them for leadership roles in their tribal communities and the region. UW Surplus Store - UW Surplus takes all unwanted items from UW departments and works to reuse, repurpose or recycle these items. The surplus retail store is open to the public Tuesdays 12-6 p.m. Central Campus Husky Union Building (HUB) - A 2012 renovation added sustainability features to the HUB, which was recognized as a LEED Gold building. During the renovation, almost 50 percent of the material from the old building was recycled into the new one. The building is energy efficient, heavily utilizing natural daylight, as well as a chilled water loop system to provide cool air. In the downstairs bowling alley, you can spot many features made from wood salvaged from the renovation. The HUB also provides a base for many student groups committed to sustainability. Drumheller Fountain - The fountain was originally built for the Alaska Yukon Pacific Exposition in 1909, and is one of the most iconic sites on campus. From this spot, you can gaze down Rainier Vista to Mt. Rainier, a reminder of the connection between the university and the surrounding natural landscape. The fountain serves as a resting spot for waterfowl, and in the spring ducklings can often be spotted enjoying a swim. Medicinal Herb Garden - The UW Medicinal Herb Garden is home to about 1,000 plants from around the world, spread out across seven plots, and provides a relaxing escape from the surrounding campus. Although the Medicinal Herb Garden is now purely a display garden, the UW Pharmacy Department once used it for medicinal purposes and research. Today, at 2.5 acres, it’s one of largest public gardens of its kind, housing healing plants from just about every continent. Life Sciences Building - This LEED Gold building includes innovative sustainable features such as reusing water to irrigate the greenhouse plants. The glass fins that shade the south side windows have embedded solar cells which generate electricity. Sustainable Commuting Options: UW Light Rail Station and Burke Gilman Trail - The Burke Gilman Trail was once the site of a major railway. Now, it’s both a recreational gem and an effective method of sustainable transportation to and from campus. Users use the trail to bike, walk, and connect to public transportation, including the UW light rail station near Husky Stadium. East Campus Center for Urban Horticulture - The Center for Urban Horticulture, administered by UW Botanic Gardens, offers 90 acres of demonstration gardens and natural areas, and houses the Miller Library and Hyde Herbarium. The Center serves as an educational hub for UW students, providing a base for research studies and classes, while also serving as a resource for the larger community. UW Farm - The UW Farm is a 1.5 acre student-powered urban vegetable market garden. The UW Farm’s mission is to be the campus center for the practice and study of urban agriculture and sustainability, and an educational, community-oriented resource for people who want to learn about building productive and sustainable urban landscapes. The farm has three locations on campus, with the largest being at the Center for Urban Horticulture. Here the farm has about an acre of land dedicated to growing sustainable fruits and vegetables and a hoop house used to grow the more delicate crops and a new composting toilet made possible by a Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) grant. Union Bay Natural Area - The 74-acre Union Bay Natural Area located at the Center for Urban Horticulture provides trails for running and walking with access to view the waters of Lake Washington and the many waterfowl that over-winter there. Yesler Swamp, located on the east side of the Union Bay Natural Area, offers a boardwalk loop that takes you to the edge of the lake and the site of the old Yesler Sawmill. IMA - The Intramural Activities Building has several sustainable features that help conserve energy and water in the building. The IMA recently converted nearly all of its lighting to energy-efficient LED bulbs, which not only require less electricity but also last longer than traditional bulbs. From the upper floor running track, you can see the roof-top solar array, one of the largest solar installations on campus. Husky Stadium - During the stadium’s 2012 renovation, more than 95 percent of the construction waste was reused or recycled, and the construction used Salmon Safe practices to filter all wastewater. The slats behind the large W above the entrance gate are reused bleachers from the former stadium, and around the building you can spot native plants in the landscaping, which help filter rainwater runoff. Waterfront Activities Center - Rent a kayak, canoe or rowboat to experience the Union Bay Natural Area’s wildlife and landscape, or paddle over to the nearby Washington Arboretum. Washington Park Arboretum - The Washington Park Arboretum, administered by UW Botanic Gardens, is just a 1.2 mile walk from UW's Seattle campus. The Arboretum holds a world class collection of woody plants that can be explored independently, through self-guided tours, arranged tours, or through the many classes and activities hosted at the site. All year round you’ll find something of interest along the trails that wind through 230 acres of gardens, natural areas and wetlands. The UW Sustainability office is located in Gerberding Hall, room B40. We're available M-F, 8am-5pm, to talk with you about sustainability efforts and how you can get involved. You can also email us at sustainability@uw.edu Download a PDF version of this map. Home Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA