Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Updated from original target in FY21 Sustainability Action Plan “12% or less of commutes are single-occupancy by 2028.” Transportation accounts for 45% of total carbon emissions in the state of Washington. Reducing the campus drive alone rate reduces greenhouse gases and other impacts on our transportation system, but also increases accessibility for those moving around the community. At all three campuses, the University is committed to developing policies and programs to increase use of sustainable commuting while advocating for increased transportation options with our local, regional, and state agencies. The target was updated starting in FY2022 to reflect a reduction for Bothell, Seattle and Tacoma campuses. Target actions for 2022 Encouraging sustainable transportation options and telework post COVID-19 Evaluate expansion and demand of daily parking options Promote U-CAR and UW Shuttle service for mid-day travel View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Encouraging sustainable transportation options and telework post COVID-19 COVID-19 has had a significant impact on the travel behavior of our campus communities. Since the pandemic, the majority of students, staff and faculty have been learning or working from home. For those coming to campus, the availability and safety of shared transportation options (transit, carpooling, etc.) has compelled many to drive alone to campus. With this disruption to the typical commute, there is an opportunity to change people’s travel behavior to more sustainable modes as they begin to return to campus. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Track research on transit recovery and COVID-19 transmission on transit, sharing findings with the campus community. Develop an outreach and education campaign promoting active and shared transportation options. Provide resources to encourage continued telework arrangements for employees that are able to work remotely. Advocate for increased transit service levels. Responsible party UW Transportation Services departments at Bothell, Seattle and Tacoma Statuses and linkages Target I: Double Student, Staff and Faculty Sustainability Engagement by 2024 UW Transportation Services meets with UW Sustainability at least quarterly to discuss promotion of sustainable transportation options and programming. Target III: Double Sustainability Oriented Research Projects by 2025 Transportation Services participated in two Sustainability Studio projects each year to help research opportunities to increase sustainable transportation usage on campus. Transportations Services is partnering with PacTrans on research of commuting by essential workers during COVID-19. Target V: 5% Lower Emissions from Professional Travel by 2025 Both targets are looking at opportunities to increase remote work and conferencing options to decrease carbon emissions from travel. Financing Programs to support reducing single-occupancy vehicle commuting are already funded through a combination of parking revenue, student and employee fees, and institutional funding. Metrics The Seattle campus conducts an annual transportation survey of staff, faculty and students to learn about their commuting behavior. Progress toward this Action will be tracked through the continued administration of the annual transportation survey. Each year the Bothell campus does an intercept survey to find the mode split, although the 2020 survey was suspended due to minimal traffic caused by the pandemic. The Bothell and Tacoma campuses both conduct biennial transportation surveys of staff and faculty through the Washington State Commute Trip Reduction program. Action: Evaluate expansion and demand of daily parking options Providing daily parking options to students, staff and faculty allows them to save money every time they do not drive to campus. This can encourage commuters to use sustainable transportation options on the days that they do not need to drive to campus. Steps we will take in FY 2022 1. Expand Pay-Per-Use Parking (PPUP) to the S1 garage on the Seattle campus. Evaluate daily parking permit options at the Tacoma campus. Adjust demand for daily parking by focusing on reducing quarterly permit sales volume at the Bothell campus. Responsible party UW Transportation Services departments at Bothell, Seattle and Tacoma Statuses and linkages Daily parking options are currently available to employees on the UW Seattle campus through Pay-Per-Use Parking (PPUP) at gated facilities and daily parking permits available for purchase online for non-gated facilities. Daily and hourly visitor parking options are available at all three campuses. Financing Parking operations are funded through the sale of parking permits and products at each campus. Metrics Progress toward completion of the Action will be measured by: Number and type of parking permits sold. Utilization of parking facilities. Action: Promote U-CAR and UW Shuttle service for mid-day travel The Transportation Services Shuttles service provides a vital connection for faculty and staff between campus and medical facilities across the city. The U-CAR program provides a critical function to allow campus community access to a vehicle for business-related trips. Both of these services allows staff, faculty and students to use commute options other than driving alone and still be able to complete the work they need to without having to bring their personal vehicle to campus, helping to reduce carbon emissions related to transportation. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Develop and implement a marketing plan for UW Shuttle services to UW Medical Center employees and patients. 2. Develop and implement a marketing plan for U-CAR service at all three campuses. Responsible party UW Transportation Services at Seattle Statuses and linkages Target X: 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Exploring opportunities to transition UW Fleet to electric vehicles and capacity for parking to house solar canopies. Financing UW Shuttles are funded through partnerships with UW Medical Center, Harborview, School of Medicine, Fred Hutchinson, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, and Seattle Children’s Hospital. The program is also funded through parking revenue and institutional funding. Metrics Progress toward completion of the Action will be measured by: Ridership numbers on shuttle services. U-CAR rentals, mileage and utilization. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Promote Commute Options Toward SOV Reduction The University of Washington is committed to managing the environmental impacts of transportation. This commitment has resulted in one of the lowest single occupancy vehicle (drive-alone) rates for universities nation-wide. In the 1970s, the University implemented programs such as the Health Sciences Express, developed computerized ride-matching software, began subsidizing transit passes, and provided incentives to encourage students to carpool. Since then, UW has incrementally built upon these successes and leads nationally in transportation demand management. Started in 1983, the University committed to managing its transportation impacts and formalized its Transportation Management Plan intended to expand commuting options for University students, staff, and faculty, and to shift travel habits away from single occupancy vehicles. Since the 2003 Campus Master Plan, the University has continued its commitment to sustainably address transportation choices, while meeting demands for campus growth and adjusting to changing transportation options serving the campus. With the 2019 Campus Master Plan, the goal is to reduce carbon emissions from single-occupancy vehicles less than 12% by 2028. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Complete a Transportation Needs Assessment of the campus community to develop specific transportation mode targets and strategies. ContinuetopromotetheU-PASSprogramtostudents,staffand faculty. Provide a fully-subsidized U-PASS to additional staff. Construct 2 new bike houses on campus to provide secure bicycle parking. Responsible party Transportation Services Statuses and linkages The University of Washington provides a comprehensive Commute Options program to help staff, faculty and students choose sustainable transportation modes to commute to campus: Discounted or fully-subsidized U-PASS transit pass program Secure bicycle parking facilities located throughout campus Free helmet program Free parking for vanpools, discounted parking for carpools Partnerships and discounts for bikeshare and carshare Transportation Services also provides outreach and education to our campus community to provide personalized trip planning sevices: Personalized commute planning New Employee Orientation participation Dawg Daze participation Earth Day Fair participation Bicycle encouragement campaigns twice a year (Ride in the Rain, Bike Everywhere Month) The University also advocates for and supports increased transit service and bicycle/pedestrian infrastructure in the U-District and regionally to support more sustainable transportation options. Financing Programs to support reducing SOV programming to support the reduction of single-occupancy vehicle commuting is funded through a combination of parking revenue, student and employee fees, and institutional funding. The FY21 budget for Commute Options programming, including the U-PASS, is $20,590,000. Metrics The University conducts an annual transportation survey of staff, faculty and students to learn about their commuting behavior. Based on the 2019 Annual Transportation Survey, the current SOV rate is 18.2%. Progress toward this Action will be tracked through the continued administration of the annual transportation survey. This action may induce an indirect points gain in STARS credit OP-16 Commute Modal Split where UW shows a point gap of 0.84. Action: Promote Car Shares and UW Shuttle Service The Transportation Services Shuttles service provides a vital connection for faculty and staff between campus and medical facilities across the city. The U-CAR program provides a critical function to allow campus community access to a vehicle for business-related trips. Both of these services allows staff, faculty and students to use commute options other than driving alone and still be able to complete the work they need to without having to bring their personal vehicle to campus, helping to reduce carbon emissions related to transportation. Steps we will take in FY 2021 UW Shuttles exploring Shuttle Routes to support Intra-Campus Mobility Review impacts of COVID-19 on shuttle and U-Car services. Responsible party Transportation Services Statuses and linkages UW Shuttles carries over 601,400 riders annually. This service transports students, faculty, staff and medical commodities to UW Medical Center Montlake, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, UW Medicine in South Lake Union, UW Medicine on Roosevelt Way and Seattle Children’s Hospital. On top of these medical shuttles, the team operates a nighttime shuttle and an accessibility-assistance shuttle for students, staff, and faculty. These services are provided to the community at no-cost to the rider. In 2020, there are 110 U-Cars that support business-related carsharing on all UW campuses. There are also 12 Zipcars on the UW Seattle campus to support personal carsharing trips for staff and students. Financing UW Shuttles are funded through partnerships with UW Medical Center, Harborview, School of Medicine, Fred Hutchinson, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, and Seattle Children’s Hospital. The program is also funded through parking revenue and institutional funding. Metrics We track the ridership numbers on all shuttle services (HSE, SCCA, SLU, Dial-A-Ride, and Night ride) on a weekly basis when services are operating. We track the number of unique car share rentals, UCAR mileage, and their utilization on a monthly basis. We do not have the ability to determine if a car share is used to move multiple individuals in a trip. This action may induce an indirect points gain in STARS credit OP-16 Commute Modal Split where UW shows a point gap of 0.84. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA