Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Environmental Stewardship Committee Environmental Stewardship Policy Statement Environmental Stewardship Policy Statement Close Menu Home Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards The University of Washington has established a commitment to environmental stewardship, setting the bar well above merely complying with laws and standards. The University is committed to being a positive force for enhancement of the environment, not just in research but in how it manages facilities and resources. Environmental Stewardship at the University of Washington Thursday, July 29, 2004 As the pre-eminent research university in Washington, the Evergreen State, the UW and its faculty, staff, and students recognize that we share a responsibility to act as a positive force for the enhancement of the local and global environment. The University of Washington embraces its important leadership role regionally and nationally to be an environmentally, economically, and socially responsible institution. The University is committed to practicing and promoting environmental stewardship while conducting its teaching, research, and service missions as well as its facility operations in all of its locations. Recognizing that this is fundamental to ensure a legacy for the future and to protect the healthy and safe learning and working environments valued by the UW, the institution and all members of the University community support actions, decisions, and leadership that will: Provide educational opportunities to the campus communities on sound environmental practices. Create intellectual resources which can be used to achieve goals for sustainability for this and future generations. Create partnerships at all levels within and outside the University that further the practice of environmental stewardship and sustainability. Through its landholdings and operations on three campuses and several other locations, the scale and scope of the University's activities have the potential to significantly affect the environment. Ranging from working on a reclaimed landfill site to long-term monitoring of intertidal wetlands to upland temperate forests to fully built office high-rises in downtown Seattle, the present activities of the University are widespread and are of local and regional significance. By exercising effective management over its activities, the University will promote the sustainable use of its resources, seek to minimize risks to and negative impacts on the environment, and underscore our commitment to protect human health and the environment. Such effective management is exercised through the application of the following expectations: The University requires all activities to meet or exceed conformance with applicable environmental standards, regulations, and guidelines. Teaching, research, and service activities are conducted in a manner that seek to minimize negative impacts on the environment and promote sound environmental practice. Operations reduce resource consumption to the maximum degree feasible. Environmental stewardship and sustainability opportunities are promoted in land use, development, and construction practices. Environmental concerns are incorporated as a significant priority in University decision-making. The University further recognizes that support and implementation of these core expectations does and will take many different forms. Specific guidance and suggestions for the University community are available on the following websites: http://www.ehs.washington.edu/ http://depts.washington.edu/poeweb/ To measure University progress towards each of these expectations, the Provost and the Executive Vice President (EVP) have established the University of Washington Environmental Stewardship Advisory Committee. This Committee draws its membership from the faculty, staff, and students of the three campuses. Members provide operational and intellectual breadth so the Committee can: Advise the Provost and EVP on the progress towards each of the expectation areas noted above. Develop, in collaboration with appropriate university units, benchmark measures of efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and the impact of activities in these areas. Identify long-term goals and standards by which the UW community can examine its effectiveness and short-term progress towards agreed-upon goals as well as timelines for evaluation of progress. Identify emerging opportunities for collaboration between academic programs and operational interests. Identify mechanisms by which the UW community, through collaborative efforts across academic and service units, can be made aware of the progress being made throughout the institution. Interact with and receive information from existing environmental stewardship committees/activities throughout the University, including the University SEPA committee, the Montlake Landfill Oversight Committee, the Solid Waste Advisory Committee, and relevant academic units. Report annually to the Provost and EVP as well as to the University community on activities and accomplishments. To increase the committee's efficiency and effectiveness, initial staff support will be provided for up to three years. The staff member will help coordinate committee activities, carry out specific tasks assigned by the committee, and maintain relationships with appropriate offices and interests. It is expected that after the initial three years, the staff position will be sustained by the financial benefits of this effort, indicating that environmental stewardship can result in economic and as well as environmental and societal benefits. Home Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA