Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Husky Green Awards Husky Green Awards 2021 Husky Green Awards 2021 Close Menu Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Watch the 2021 Husky Green Award celebration In October 2021, we were able to recognize the Husky Green Award honorees from 2021 and 2020 in person. A recording of the event livestream can be seen at the link below. Watch the ceremony The Husky Green Awards recognize individuals and groups across all University of Washington campuses who lead the way for sustainability at the University of Washington. This is the 12th year the awards have been awarded by the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee as part of the UW's Earth Day celebrations. The Husky Green Awards are given to students, faculty and staff from the Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses who show initiative, leadership and dedication. See all the 2021 Husky Green Award recipients below. Green Greeks Executive Committee: Julie Ira, Liz Platin, Grace Rossi, Marissa London, and Chris Gould student group leadership The executive committee of the Green Greeks Representative Program worked to ensure the group would not only continue, but thrive despite the obstacles of the pandemic. With many of the students living away from campus and in a fully online environment, the executive committee shifted many of the project teams to communication work, while continuing some in-person activities when possible. The executive team ensured the group stayed together while building connections with other organizations, ensuring that projects stayed on track and coordinating among themselves and the other students. The Green Greeks group has been one of the most active sustainability student organizations for several years, and this year’s student leadership adjusted to keep that going in a challenging year. Casey Crane staff, Housing & Food Services (UW Dining) The Projects and Purchasing Specialist for Housing & Food Service’s Dining operations, Casey scrambled to ensure food didn’t go to waste when COVID-19 shut down most of campus last Spring. She created a central commissary process including a virtual dashboard and inventory so that food from closed HFS outlets could be tracked and transferred. Items closer to the end of their shelf life were donated to the Campus Food Pantry and other food banks, while other items could be transferred for campus use. The quick creation of the commissary system kept food from spoiling or being wasted, as well as allowing UW Dining to recoup some of the money spent on what would otherwise be unused food. The system also allowed the District Market to create a “Buy 1, Give 1” system, allowing shoppers to purchase selected items at a discounted rate which could be put into Campus Food Pantry donation bins. Chris Meek faculty, College of Built Environments The leader of UW’s Integrated Design Lab, Chris is a champion of sustainability advancement at UW. He has been an active member of UW’s Green Building Standards committee and advocated for strong sustainability standards for new university construction, beyond the required codes. He has been an ex-officio adviser to the Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) for several years, offering guidance and sustainability expertise to the student committee. As the director of the Integrated Design Lab, he works to further the IDL’s mission to discover innovative solutions to create more sustainable buildings and healthy urban environments. Ellen E. Moore faculty, UW Tacoma School of Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences A long time member of UW Tacoma’s Sustainability Committee, Ellen now serves as committee chair. She works to increase student awareness of sustainability, decrease single-use plastics, incorporate climate change education into humanities, social science, and science courses, and create sustained funding for sustainability initiatives at UW Tacoma. She has been a driving force behind interdisciplinary sustainability research and education projects, and has worked with faculty and staff on all three UW campuses to advance sustainability. Emily Oven laboratory staff, School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences As a laboratory staff in Dr. Chelsea Wood’s lab, Emily has been an advocate and driving force for more sustainable lab practices. Her suggested changes to the lab’s practices include purchasing more eco-friendly materials and energy conservation. Perhaps her greatest contribution was to start a composting program within the lab, working with university partners to ensure composting discarded fish and other materials from the lab’s work would be safe and feasible. The lab will now compost hundreds of pounds of fish each year which would have previously gone to the landfill. Emily is also collecting data on the lab’s glove recycling and fish composting programs to present to other labs in the department and assist them to develop similar plans, in what she hopes will be a department-wide practice. Husky Green Legacy winner: Julia Parrish faculty, College of the Environment As a faculty member of the College of the Environment, Julia has been a leader in citizen science efforts and garnered support for conservation work in our region. She has also been a champion for student sustainability engagement at the UW. She was instrumental in the development of the Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) Advisory Network, a group of of associate deans, Planning & Budgeting and UW Facilities organizations who can help guide student sustainability projects. She was a founding member of the Program on the Environment Sustainability Studio class, giving students an opportunity to apply sustainability learning to real world applications on campus. Many departments ranging from UW Athletics, Recycling, Procurement, Housing & Food Services, just to name a few have all benefited from the success and strength of the POE Sustainability Studio student teams over the years, and not to mention giving POE student alumni the unique experience of consulting for UW administration. She championed the Sustainable Learning Space near the Fisheries Science Building, working with the CSF, UW Sustainability, faculty and student learners to develop and design an outdoor living laboratory that educates the campus about sustainability. Not only did Julia lead the project development of an innovative learning environment, but she also spearheaded an effort to include a memorial for Tikvah Weiner, a former UW staff member from the Program on the Environment, to help capture the spirit and dedication that was once part of our campus community. Husky Green Legacy winner: The UW Farm group The UW Farm has provided a space for students to practice and study urban agriculture and sustainability since its start as three small beds by the Botany Greenhouse. Today, the UW Farm covers 1.5 acres on three sites at the Center for Urban Horticulture, Mercer Court and McMahon Hall. The Farm largely relies on student volunteers. Its produce is used by Housing & Food Services at campus dining locations, donated to food banks including the UW Food Pantry and distributed to the community in a CSA program. The UW Farm also promotes education about food in the urban environment and works to create a sense of community around its efforts. It provides hands-on opportunities for students to dig into food production, and partners with groups across campus to educate the UW community about our food systems. Under the leadership of current Farm Manager Perry Acworth, this year the UW Farm was able to continue serving its mission despite restrictions limiting volunteers. This is a continuation of a legacy of innovation at the UW Farm, which regularly uses Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) grants and other opportunities to add and upgrade facilities to be more sustainable. The construction of a composting toilet to serve volunteers, addition of a greenhouse to extend the growing season, and creation of a Native Garden program setting aside space for indigenous plants with significance in native food traditions are just a few of the many projects the UW Farm has undertaken over the years to improve the student experience and advance sustainability. Honorable mention: Jeremy Hess, UW Medicine ICA: Institutional Climate Action, student group UW Records Management Team UW Bothell Maintenance Team UW Tower Facilities team About the Husky Green Awards: The Husky Green Awards are sponsored by the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee (ESC) and are made possible by the 2008 Senior Class Gift for Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability. The awards are the only recognition program at the University which recognize a commitment to sustainability. Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA