Jump to navigation About Us News & Events Schools & Units Data Hub Commitment Our Plan Living Lab Our Progress Our Partners Topics Academics & Research Climate Change & Energy Community Engagement Food Green Buildings Health & Wellness IT Nature & Ecosystems Purchasing Transportation Waste Water Programs Green Labs Green Living Green Offices Green Revolving Fund Green Teams Student Grants Action Student Guide Staff Guide Alumni Guide Tools & Resources Search placeholder Keyword In Everything Tools & Resources You are here Home › Topics › Climate Change & Energy The global challenge of climate change poses both an immediate and a long-term threat to people and our planet. Share This We are acting on climate with bold action. Harvard's climate action plan Our climate action plan will build on our past progress and use the campus to confront the difficult questions posed by climate change and test promising new solutions that move Harvard, and the world, away from fossil fuels. Learn more 2006-2016 Climate Goal In 2016, Harvard achieved its goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 30% by 2016, from a 2006 baseline, inclusive of campus growth. Learn more Energy efficiency Our facilities leaders and building managers aggressively pursue energy efficiency as part of our climate strategy. As a result of our short-term climate goal, energy use was reduced by 10% across campus, even as square footage increased by 12%. Learn more Renewable Energy On-site solar PV, solar thermal, biomass, and geothermal installations play an important role in diversifying Harvard’s energy supply and serving as a testing ground to inform future action. Learn more Preparedness and resiliency Harvard is proactively working with our neighboring cities of Cambridge and Boston to better understand and plan for the impacts climate change. The University is paying special attention to how extreme weather events and sea level rise will affect the region in order to make our campus more resilient. Learn more External partnerships Harvard is leading partnerships across higher education, government, and business to develop shared solutions to climate challenges on a local, regional, and global level. Through its work on different commissions and organizations, such as the Boston Green Ribbon Commission, Cambridge Compact for a Sustainable Future, International Sustainable Campus Network and Ivy Plus Sustainability Group, Harvard is collaborating with its peers to confront a broad range of issues, including GHG emissions accounting, renewable energy purchasing, climate preparedness, high performance computing, and laboratory energy use. Learn more 2006-2016 Climate Goal Climate Action Plan Fossil Fuel-Neutral by 2026 Fossil Fuel-Free Goes Beyond Carbon-Free Energy Efficiency Renewable Energy Emissions Inventory Off-Site Emissions Reduction Preparedness & Resiliency Explore How To The Life Cycle Costing policy and calculator were developed to support implementation of Harvard's Green Building Standards. Life Cycle Calculator Case Study The FAS Green Program and the CCB Building Manager tracked four of the largest labs' light usage to build awareness and improve behaviors. Turn off the Lights Competition How To The Business and Environment Initiative collaborated with the Baker Library to develop a business and environment research guide to serve as a great starting place for research on environmental issues for business this guide points to the best resources available to the HBS community.... Business & the Environment Research Guide Video In about four hours, participants reduced the Freshman Dean's Office's energy usage by 30%. Weatherizing the Freshman Dean's Office Case Study Ongoing project has resulted in $3.15 million savings since 2009 LISE Laboratory Building Retro-Commissioning How To Avoid purchasing a new freezer if possible. Can you clean out space in your existing unit to accommodate new samples, or share freezer space with a neighboring lab? This is a great way to save your lab money, and minimize your environmental impact. If you need to buy a new ... Make wise freezer purchasing decisions Show more Events Climate Change & Energy News View all February 8, 2021 Dr. Stacey Blondin and the Intersection Between Health, Food, and Sustainability Recent alumna Sierra Tseng virtually caught up with alumna Dr. Stacey Blondin, AB ’07 to discuss her career path, ideal food systems, and the intersection between health, food, and... February 2, 2021 On the road to a fossil fuel-free future October 31, 2018 Project offers holistic view on environmental issues July 10, 2018 Extreme heat linked with reduced cognitive performance among young adults June 12, 2018 Harvard physician extols the health benefits of going green June 8, 2018 Are cities the key to climate solutions? June 7, 2018 Harvard team outlines plan for industrial-scale carbon removal plant May 30, 2018 Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment officially launches May 17, 2018 Engagement on sustainable investing May 16, 2018 Environmental medicine brings climate change to forefront May 8, 2018 Annual Design and Project Fair showcases student creations May 1, 2018 Sustainability report marks milestones FOLLOW US Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Linkedin RSS About Us / News & Events / Schools & Units / Subscribe / Feedback Privacy Statement Accessibility Copyright ©2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College