Skip to main content All the UW Current Site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Facilities Employee Portal Quick Links Blog Home UW Sustainability Home About the Blog In Our Nature the UW Sustainability blog In Our Nature the UW Sustainability blog Menu Home Blog Home UW Sustainability Home About the Blog Connecting Mindfully with Nature workshop on May 31 By UW Sustainability | May 20, 2022 The UW Counseling Center is hosting a mindfulness workshop for UW students in the Washington Park Arboretum from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesday, May 31. The workshop will focus on Forest Bathing, the Japanese practice of seeking a deep and meditative connection with nature. Learn about the mindful connection to nature, engage in the practice and connect with others in the process. Participants must register in advance as space is limited. To register: call the UWCC front desk at 206-543-1240 or email directly to sashya@uw.edu or... Read more Category: Events Tags: mindfulness | Forest Bathing Meet our new director, Lisa Dulude By UW Sustainability | May 17, 2022 Lisa comes to the University of Washington from Snohomish County, where she served as the county’s Energy and Sustainability Manager for the last 12 years. At Snohomish County, Lisa led a team of eight staff in the county’s Office of Energy and Sustainability, overseeing climate action and sustainability planning, energy and resource conservation programs, the Weatherization Program, Energy Smart Loan Program, and Savvy Septic Program. Prior to joining Snohomish County, Lisa worked in the private sector as a planning consultant. She also served as an AmeriCorps VISTA for a Denver based non... Read more Sustainable and Ethical Food Systems conversation series By UW Sustainability | May 3, 2022 The Whole U and UW Sustainability are partnering to host a series of virtual conversations around sustainable and ethical food systems. Sessions will feature experts in the following areas: UW’s food systems Food sovereignty Sustainable farming Food accessibility Food systems in the wellness industry Participants will engage in meaningful conversation about the current nature and future of our food systems. Each session will cover a different aspect of food systems with guest experts guiding conversation and offering... Read more Category: Events | Food Tags: Whole U | Yona Sipos | Eli Wheat | Charlotte Cote | Food systems Donate unwanted items during SCRAM 2022 By UW Recycling | Apr 26, 2022 If you are moving out of an HFS residence hall or apartment, you can donate certain items through the UW’s SCRAM (Student Cleanup, Recycle and Moveout) event. Donations will go to various local organizations including the UW Food Pantry, Northwest Center and DESC. The event runs from June 6-11, 2022. Only HFS residents can donate during SCRAM. Accepted donation items: ... Read more Category: Events | Recycling, Compost & Waste | Residence Halls Tags: SCRAM | UW Recycling Watch: 2022 UW Trash Art Contest video By UW Sustainability | Apr 4, 2022 The 2022 Trash Art Contest, organized by UW Recycling, gave UW artists a space to make statements around waste and sustainability while using materials usually thought of as trash. More than 20 art pieces were created for the contest, in the categories of 2D art, 3D art and literature. Artists were asked to express feelings or... Read more Category: Awards & Recognition | Recycling, Compost & Waste Tags: trash art | contest | UW Recycling | Campus Race to Zero Waste UW's Net Impact student group hosts a Climate Justice & Business event on April 5 By UW Sustainability | Apr 1, 2022 UW Net Impact, a Foster School of Business student group focused on sustainabilty, is hosting a discussion around Climate Justice & Business on Tuesday, April 5 at 5 p.m. in the Paccar Building's Deloitte Commons. This event will include discussions about climate justice in the global, local, and business context, as well as how to apply principles of climate justice as business leaders. Snacks will be provided, and all are welcome to attend. Contact ramirezi@uw.edu with any questions. ... Read more Category: Events Tags: Net Impact | Business | Environmental Justice 2022 Trash Art Contest winners announced By UW Recycling | Mar 31, 2022 Five winners transformed trash into stunning art pieces in the third annual UW Trash Art Contest. The contest, organized by UW Recycling, received more than 20 submissions from students, faculty and staff in the categories of literature, 2D art and 3D art. The artwork needed to be created from items normally thought of as trash. Artists were asked to express feelings or ideas about waste, or a sustainability topic that relates to waste. This year's winners were: 2D art category 1. Disposable by Louise... Read more Category: Awards & Recognition | Recycling, Compost & Waste Tags: trash art | contest | Campus Race to Zero Waste | UW Recycling New sustainability internship opportunity By UW Sustainability | Mar 21, 2022 The Washington State Department of Ecology has partnered with Washington Sea Grant to create the new Washington Applied Sustainability Internship (WASI) program. This is a paid 10-week internship for college students to work with a business on pollution prevention and sustainability projects. The WASI program is open to junior, senior and graduate students, as well as recent graduates, in business, economics, engineering, environmental science, green chemistry, physical science or sustainability science. For the summer of 2022, the program has partnered with two... Read more Tags: Internships | WASI The CSF is hiring two student positions By UW Sustainability | Mar 3, 2022 The Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) is now hiring for two undergraduate student positions: Outreach Coordinator and Project Development Specialist. Both positions are open to current UW students. The roles are expected to work 15 to 19.5 hours a week during the academic year and summer, and pay $20/hour. The CSF is a student-funded and student-run grant organization which support student-led sustainability projects on campus. This is your chance to become closely involved with both... Read more Category: Campus Sustainability Fund Tags: jobs Meet the new CSF Coordinator Tatiana Brown By UW Sustainability | Feb 11, 2022 Tatiana Brown (she/hers) has recently started her role as the Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) coordinator. Tatiana is a concurrent MPA/MPH student at the Evans School of Public Policy and Health Systems and Population Health School of Public Health. Tatiana is focused on the intersection of leading health policy and creating health interventions in collaboration with marginalized communities in urban spaces. Her background is in medical anthropology and some of her core areas of focus are coalition building, grassroots movements, food justice, socioeconomic... Read more Tags: Campus Sustainability Fund 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Search form Search Search Recent Posts Connecting Mindfully with Nature workshop on May 31 May 20, 2022 Meet our new director, Lisa Dulude May 17, 2022 Sustainable and Ethical Food Systems conversation series May 3, 2022 Donate unwanted items during SCRAM 2022 Apr 26, 2022 Watch: 2022 UW Trash Art Contest video Apr 4, 2022 Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Newsletter Signup Blog RSS feed University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA