Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Greenbuzz Breadcrumb Home Main navigation About Green Buzz Programs Education Research Awards Green News Get Involved Open Search Search Search Mercury news Celebrating National Bike Month May 19, 2022 — Atlanta, GA With May designated as National Bike Month, and this week Bike to Work Week, it’s a good time to explore options for cycling on and near Georgia Tech’s campus. Week of Events Highlights Sustainable Development Goals Feb 24, 2022 — Atlanta, GA The campus community is invited to participate in a variety of events that increase awareness of and encourage actions that advance the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Ocean Sciences and Engineering Celebrates First Graduate Dec 16, 2021 — Atlanta, GA Minda Monteagudo is a one-of-a-kind student, literally. She is the first student to ever graduate with a Ph.D. in ocean sciences and engineering from Georgia Tech. The Fate of Latin American Forests in a Warming World Dec 13, 2021 — Atlanta, GA Climate change will bring significant changes to Latin American forests, according a new School of Public Policy study. White Oak Near Tech Tower Planned for Removal Dec 03, 2021 — Atlanta, GA The white oak beside the staircase leading up to Tech Tower is failing and will be removed over winter break. Building and Construction Industry Face Supply Chain Disruptions, but There Is Hope Nov 08, 2021 — Atlanta, GA How can companies overcome this disruption to the supply chain? Pardis Pishdad-Bozorgi with the School of Building Construction of has a few solutions to manage the supply chain while also adhering to timeline demands. Modeling Water-cleansing Wetlands in Extreme Weather Nov 03, 2021 — Atlanta, GA Georgia Tech is partnering with two Department of Energy (DOE) national laboratories to better understand how wetlands function, enabling scientists to better understand their role in controlling water quality. $12 Million NSF Grant Will Establish Nationwide Atmospheric Measurement Network Oct 07, 2021 — Atlanta, GA A multi-state network will measure aerosols to gain a better understanding of climate and public health. Protecting Rural Schoolchildren from Prescribed Fire Emissions Sep 22, 2021 — Atlanta, GA A new grant will allow Georgia Tech researchers to create strategies to protect schoolchildren from harmful wildland fire emissions Restoring Power During Severe Storms Sep 22, 2021 — Atlanta, GA Researchers studied how recovery, guided by common policies from FEMA and industry, varies with respect to the severity of disruptive events. Pagination 1 Page 1 Next page ›› Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN