Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW UW Sustainability Action Plan UW Sustainability Action Plan Close Menu Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Since establishing the UW Climate Action Plan in 2009, the University has made good progress with reducing its carbon footprint and institutionalizing sustainability. But even as a third-time gold-rated university recognized by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE), our work is not done. We have opportunities to improve our sustainability performance and lay out actionable goals that involve all campuses. Today, we expand our vision beyond the Climate Action Plan with a new Sustainability Action Plan built on five Guiding Principles addressing student learning outcomes, research impact, diversity equity & inclusion, responsible use of our resources, and of course, decarbonization of our energy sources. The plan balances our sustainability goals with the University’s overall priorities to ensure we can execute these actions in a measurable manner. As such, we are applying a financial lens for setting our targets and adherence to measurable outcomes that we will track annually. Get the Sustainability Action Plan PDFs Download a PDF of the FY2022 Sustainability Action Plan update (3.2 MB) Download a PDF of the Sustainability Action Plan at a Glance (418 KB) Download a PDF of the FY2021 Action Plan (2.6 MB) Download a PDF of the Sustainability Strategy guiding the Plan (477 KB) We all have a part to play As part of the Sustainability Action Plan, the UW will annually determine what actions to take toward each target over the next fiscal year. If you are interested in learning how you can be a part of the teams working on settings these actions, email sustainabilityplan@uw.edu. Download a PDF of the 2021 survey results (2.5 MB) Each year we will survey the campus community for feedback, and post the results here. These survey responses inform the planning process for updating the annual actions. The planning groups use an equity impact analysis tool to determine if the proposed actions of the plan would present barriers or burdens to underrepresented community members at UW. Download the 2020 survey results (2.5 MB) Ten Targets and the actions we're taking 2021-2025 I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 This Target is about increasing the visibility of, and access to, sustainability in campus life. Implementing actions include a wide range of education programs, collaborations, and volunteerism that touch the lives of nearly every student, staff and faculty member, as well as community members in the neighborhoods surrounding UW campuses. The 2022 Action Plan will include actions that promote innovative collaborations between UW’s existing healthy living and environmental sustainability efforts; expanded professional development; and community engagement programs. Target actions: Whole U and UW Sustainability collaborate to expand university-wide equitable engagement Expand professional development opportunities for faculty and staff Inventory and expand community engagement Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target I II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 A clear, common definition of sustainability is necessary for effective communication and coordination around learning and action across campus. This Target invokes a campus-wide definition and standardized reporting of existing sustainability courses. To successfully facilitate this goal and others, an Academic Sustainability Manager will be hired. The 2022 Action Plan will also lay foundations for the development of a UW-wide sustainability course or other general requirement, and begin work toward a common, minimum sustainability learning outcome by 2025. Target actions: Finalize and publish the university-wide definition of sustainability Develop standardized reporting of academic content Identify minimum learning outcomes Determine feasibility of a student sustainability hub Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target II III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 Sustainability evolves at the intersection between society and the environment. Much of scientific research is aligned along this same interface, so a more refined attention to sustainability illuminates our thinking about how we engage in research. We start toward this Target simply by understanding these parallels through a comprehensive sustainability research inventory. Our work on the sustainability definition in FY21 guides this next year of our goal to increase sustainability-oriented research. We will further this work through a comprehensive sustainability research inventory. We will also begin to expand our work beyond the walls of higher education, making our campuses and surrounding communities living laboratories that provide rich collaborations and shared positive outcomes. Target actions: Develop sustainability research catalog Expand campus as a living laboratory Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target III IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 Procurement comprises a significant portion of UW’s spending. With its purchasing decisions UW can endorse suppliers who are practicing sustainability; we aspire to have 100% of them aligned with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are quickly working to incorporate students’ voices in purchasing decisions. As we work with campus units and departments to develop equitable purchasing targets, we will follow the state’s goals for minority-, women- and veteran-owned businesses under the Results Washington strategic framework. Target actions: Campus awareness related to supplier diversity Implement a Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target IV V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 In 2020, professional air travel at the UW decreased more than 60% as a result of the mandatory stay at home orders and public health crisis. While some work of the university was negatively impacted, we quickly developed new skills for working and gathering virtually and experienced benefi ts such as increased participation, and reduced costs. Our goals for the next fiscal year are to build on what we learned to minimize unnecessary travel and to continue to pursue strategies for offsetting emissions from travel that is core to our mission. Target actions: Facilitate department/unit specific travel reduction Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target V VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 Our food is particularly emblematic of sustainability, a personal and literal symbol of the connection between the social and the environmental. The physically closer we are to the original sources of our food, the greater our ability is to affect positive change. At all three campuses, focusing on local food sources means we are engaging with, investing in, and providing support to our local food systems while reducing the carbon footprint of our community. Target actions: Increase sourcing of local foods 1% each year based on a 2021 baseline Expand plant-based options by 10% by 2025 Increase student engagement education and understanding of impact of plant-based options Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target VI VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 Updated from original target in FY21 Sustainability Action Plan “12% or less of commutes are single-occupancy by 2028.” Transportation accounts for 45% of total carbon emissions in the state of Washington. Reducing the campus drive alone rate reduces greenhouse gases and other impacts on our transportation system, but also increases accessibility for those moving around the community. At all three campuses, the University is committed to developing policies and programs to increase use of sustainable commuting while advocating for increased transportation options with our local, regional, and state agencies. The target was updated starting in FY2022 to reflect a reduction for Bothell, Seattle and Tacoma campuses. Target actions: Encouraging sustainable transportation options and telework post COVID-19 Evaluate expansion and demand of daily parking options Promote U-CAR and UW Shuttle service for mid-day travel Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target VII VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 Eighty percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions come from combusting fossil fuels to generate energy, including electricity. We need to do our part toward reducing energy consumption. Achieving this goal will require accelerating the implementation of energy conservation projects, targeting older and less efficient buildings for deep retrofits, and ensuring all new buildings meet the UW Green Building Standard to minimize water and energy consumption. The expanded use of utility metering and monitoring based commissioning will keep buildings operating optimally. Water conservation UW will monitor opportunities to reduce water consumption for new building construction, maintenance and irrigation. In collaboration with academic units, UW Facilities will explore paths to research the feasibility of enhancing water reduction through the use of new technologies or integration into campus planning. Target actions: Implement cost effective conservation investments Expand campus Meter Monitor O&M program Develop a Demand Side Management (DSM) approach Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target VIII IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 Everything we throw away is something that we don’t need. That may seem self-evident, but combined with life-cycle thinking it means an opportunity to reduce manufacturing emissions, energy consumption, transportation, and even raw materials extraction associated with whatever object we didn’t need. “Reduce, reuse, recycle” remains a powerful hierarchy of solid waste management, but there are even more details of product and materials management, economics, and urban ecology that can receive both our research attention and our operational attention. Target actions: Divert compostable waste from recycling and landfill Implement low-waste campus kitchens Reduce single-use disposable items Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target IX X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Climate change is the environmental issue of our time. The UW is a world-class research center in climate-related topics; in fact climate change’s centrality to our academic life is reflected in a Guiding Principle of this Sustainability Strategy. We’re going to follow through on our sustainability commitment by embarking on a major energy planning process to drastically reduce the Seattle Campus district heating system’s demand for fossil fuels, and reduce our dependence on utility energy with solar photovoltaic power on all our campuses. This Target is relative to a 2005 baseline, for consistency with Washington State law. All other Targets in the UW Sustainability Plan are relative to a 2020 baseline. Target actions: Electrify UW Transportation Services Plan to repower the Seattle campus Implement campus solar plan Sustainability plan guiding principle(s): Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize View the complete plan for target X How we're doing We're tracking our progress toward each of the targets. The Sustainability Plan Dashboard includes metrics and progress reports on the targets and actions. Check back often to see how we're doing. See the plan dashboard A plan grounded by these principles Ensure Students Achieve Sustainability Literacy The University of Washington prepares its students for their personal success in the broader world, and for our shared success with respect to the planet, and for advancing and sustaining healthy ecosystems. We live in a time of intensive globalization: an increasing global population means we need to carefully share available resources; technology is connecting people across continents with incredible ease; and climate change presents risks that can only be solved through international collaboration. Every UW student’s education should be organized around their place in the global network. We will ensure that UW graduates have considered and discovered how their personal passions and skills fit into the framework of activity the globe needs to thrive far into the future. Choose our Research Conscientiously UW philosophers, economists, urban planners and many others help the changing world organize itself around the challenges of our changing planet. UW is a world leader in advancing scientific understanding of climate change. We are at the leading edge of building the knowledge, and initiating the changes necessary, to make the world a better place. Just as we must encourage our students to place their focus carefully in the framework of sustainability, so must our researchers know the place that their work occupies in the social-economic-environmental matrix. Each researcher’s program and projects contributes in its unique way to the organization of human life on this planet, and our researchers must ensure that the work they do contributes to our shared prosperity. We will continue to support ground-breaking research and enable innovations that bring sustainability faster, more widely, and equitably. Keep Equity and Inclusion at the Center In the five decades since the first Earth Day, a focused environmental rescue effort has focused on saving species, protecting ecosystems, and stabilizing the climate. However ecological losses and climate change have impacts beyond the natural world, calling for more equitable sharing of burdens and benefits. The University of Washington will center equity and inclusion as fundamental pillars of sustainability. Advancing efforts on climate justice make it urgent to design inclusive strategies that strengthen the capacity of all communities to respond effectively to climate change. As UW implements this Sustainability Strategy, equity and inclusion will guide every step that we take in partnership with communities both locally and around the world. We will work with UW’s global position in mind, attempting to benefit the widest possible constituency, recognizing our impact beyond borders and keeping an eye towards social responsibility. Use Resources Responsibly Keeping the planet healthy means living within our ecological means. A growing global population needs to consume raw materials for production, freshwater, topsoil, energy, arable landscape and other resources at rates no greater than they can be replenished or recycled. Future generations – all future generations – must have enough as well. UW will model environmental stewardship and sustainability with efficient, cost-effective practices throughout its operations. We will reduce consumption of energy, reduce consumption of materials, shift to renewably-produced materials, and increase reuse, recycling, and composting. As a leader in implementing best practices we will demonstrate flexibility in adapting to new information, changing approaches, and emerging technologies. All University operations will be participating, including: planning, design, construction, and performance monitoring of buildings; commuting and professional travel; land use; information technology; and the cycle of procurement, consumption, and disposal of commodities. Decarbonize In 2007 then-UW president Mark Emmert signed the American College & University Presidents Climate Commitment, committing UW to “achieve climate neutrality as soon as possible.” In the thirteen years since, we have seen growing awareness and increasing compliance requirements in our own cities of Seattle, Tacoma and Bothell, and the state of Washington. Our local and global landscapes require innovation, cooperation and hope. As an institution of higher education and research, we can and must work together on multi-sector solutions. UW intends to be a leader in decarbonization, and our path toward carbon-neutral campuses will be accelerated accordingly. Successfully integrating the social, economic and environmental forces that define sustainability can set a shining and positive example for future leaders. What they're saying As a community that leads with values, we have the responsibility and the tools to take on the challenge of environmental sustainability for the benefit of all Huskies, present and future. I look forward to the impact we will make and the cleaner, more livable and sustainable world that we can create together. - UW President Ana Mari Cauce UW sustainability team releases annual update to five-year sustainability action plan | The DailyAugust 16, 2021 UW releases annual update to Sustainability Action Plan | UW NewsJune 30, 2021 UW releases finalized Sustainability Action Plan | UW NewsJuly 1, 2020 Together, we can make an impact on climate change | UW Presidential BlogApril 22, 2020 University of Washington releases new Sustainability Strategy | UW NewsApril 22, 2020 UW releases five-year goals for sustainability | The DailyApril 24, 2020 A look at the importance of sustainability and the people behind it at the UW | The DailyOctober 14, 2019 Students meet to talk sustainability strategies, informing UW sustainability plan | The DailyJanuary 31, 2020 Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA