Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media What can I do? Green Events Guide Green Events Guide Close Menu Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey This Green Events Guide is a tool for event planners to make their events more sustainable. You will find tips for sustainable practices during your event, including what to do throughout the planning process (before, during and after the event) and small things to remember like paperless invites, sustainable food vendors and clearly marked waste bins. This guide is the result of many event planning staff across UW and is sure to keep growing so please do come back soon and often. Have a question or suggestion? Contact us at: sustainability@uw.edu. Contents: Beverages Decor/Giveaways Communications/Marketing Florals Energy Food Planning Table Linens Transportation Venue Waste Planning Guidelines: use these guidelines to help plan your event Pre-Event: Make your green commitment Opt for sustainable food choices Request compost and recycling from UW Recycling (see venue for buildings needing bins) Omit bottled water (pitchers or dispensers are good alternatives) Minimize promotional items or print them on 100% recycled paper Encourage alternative transportation: send invitees links to public transportation Use natural or reusable decor Day of the Event: Look for small ways to conserve energy Check for proper waste bin set up and place them in areas where they’re easily accessible Promote/advertise your sustainability efforts through social media, websites, blogs and interactions with campus partners Collect unused materials and store them for future events Be sure that lights/power are turned off before exiting event space Post Event: Figure out what to do with leftover food (donate, bring to students, staff members) Make sure you save materials that can be reused Evaluate event and share with team via onenote, highlight what sustainable features went well and what to improve upon Back to Contents Some of the caterers with UW contracts focus on sustainable, locally sourced ingredients and are committed to using eco friendly disposable products with an emphasis on composting. They provide: Healthy food options that feature organic and local ingredients Offer substantial vegetarian options Provide compostable cups, plates, napkins, utensils, and other service-ware. See this list of acceptable items Offer beverage pitchers and air pots as an alternative to bottled water/drinks and aluminum cans View the list of Business Diversity Program approved caterers (Please note that caterers other than Bay Laurel require food permits and approval from EH&S.) SUSTAINABILITY TIPS Have most food be vegetarian (25% can be non vegetarian) Provide compostable take away boxes Serve mostly Local foods Serve mostly finger foods (produces much less waste) If having seafood ensure that it’s sustainably sourced Back to Contents Linens are an essential part of making an event elegant and sophistocated. The following companies have a UW contract for events. There are a variety of options so be sure you look at them all. BBJ Linen Choice Linens Rented Elegance For branded banners and table runners: UW Creative Communications- UW's source for marketing/custom branded materials Stella color- offers a variety eco-friendly fabrics and inks, locally owned and operated Back to Contents Opting for locally sourced and organic beverages decreases our environmental impact and supports the local economy. The following companies support sustainability in their products. Husky Grind Seattle Cider Pike Brewing Chateau Ste Michelle Honest Tea SUSTAINABILITY TIPS Serve organic and local beverages Fill pitchers with water instead of providing individual bottles Provide compostable cups Back to Contents Promote public transportation to and from events (provide resources in invitations to bus routes, carpools, vanpools, etc.) or promote alternative transportation (walking, biking, etc.) If providing transportation to events, opt for the most efficient vehicle and least number of vehicles. Ie: don’t let carpool leave until full! Avoid transporting speakers/guests from long distance Select a venue that can be accessed easily from public transportation routes Back to Contents The following Seattle area venues are either LEED certified or are committed to being green Off campus events: Bell Harbor Olive 8 at the Hyatt Willows Lodge Janiuk-Novelty Hill On campus events: UW Botanic Gardens UW Center for Urban Horticulture Alder Commons Cultivate Back to Contents Opt for mood lighting by turning off unnecessary lights Try to use natural light for your event, book event during mostly daylight hours and choose rooms with lots of windows, for evening time, opt for low voltage lamps Use LED lights for stage lighting Turn off electronic equipment when not in use Keep windows and doors closed when heat or AC is on Back to Contents Request vendors turn off their vehicles instead of idling while making deliveries Inform caterers of compost and recycling receptacles Use non toxic cleaning products Choose a green caterer (Food Section) Plan a menu that is not susceptible to having leftovers Back to Contents If providing giveaways, choose sustainable goods made from reused materials, the following links also have UW contracts: Catalyst Image Source ZippyDogs Promoshop Inc Creative Recognitions Inc 4Imprint Kotis Design ASAP Promotions SUSTAINABLE TIPS Make sure your décor is reusable, recyclable or compostable (fruit baskets, flowers, live herbs, etc.) Use soy/beeswax candles For alternative décor items opt for used items, such as from UW surplus or area thrift stores Borrow or rent equipment from campus instead of renting from outside company Use recyclable materials for name badges, paper communications, etc. Back to Contents These florists use locally grown flowers and are commited to sustainability Terra Bella: Locally sourced flowers from farmers who are certified Salmon safe and use organic farming practices. Located in Greenwood near the Woodland Park Zoo. Lola: Lola promotes sustainable flower growing, low waste events, and low-impact practices. They focus on composting plant waste, reusing materials, and source locally and responsibly. Owned by a UW alum! Marigold and Mint: Marigold and Mint is an organic farm, retail shop and studio. They are locally operated and focus on responsible harvesting from their orchard, woodland and berry patches. Floret Flowers: Family owned and operated, locally grown flowers Back to Contents Try to reduce printed materials for your event If printing is necessary, print double sided on 100% recyclable paper Use dry erase boards or black boards instead of paper flip charts Ask participants to bring a laptop for note taking or set up a meeting notes page that is emailed to everyone (one note, Google docs) Distribute brochures, handouts only upon request Decrease margins and font size to optimize paper used Send out email reminders or digital invites (mail chimp, evite, etc.) Set up catalyst account for RSVP’s Send out digital thank you cards via punchbowl, bluemountian, etc. Offer teleconferencing or phone call-ins for guests/speakers not living in the area Email event schedule/timeline to attendees instead of printing it out Use digital signage and electronic media to inform participants about event Back to Contents Ensure all bins are well marked and grouped together for easy access Reuse unwanted marketing/event materials Check for correct waste bin set ups Ensure that all bins are properly labeled Bins should be easily accessible and grouped together Note: compost bins should always be equipped with a compostable bin liner Be sure that guests know this is a certified "Green event" Place logo on marketing materials/collateral to encourage green practices Create a “green” notes page to inform what green practices went well and which areas can be improved Most areas on campus use UW recycling to ensure proper bin set up, however the following list consults with their own waste bins. Be sure to ask if they provide recycling and compost bins for your events: Burke Museum: contact Event Rentals Center for Urban Horticulture: contact the Rental Program Office Foege Building: contact Classroom Services Gould Hall: contact Meegan Amen HUB: contact HUB Event Services Kane Hall: contact Classroom Technology & Events Magnuson Health Sciences Center: contact Classroom Services Mary Gates Hall: contact Classroom Technology & Events Paul G. Allen Center for CSE: contact Sophie Ostlund South Campus Center: contact Health Sciences Room Reservations Suzzallo/Allen Libraries: contact Library Facilities UW Tower: contact UW Tower Facilities Back to Contents Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA