Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 Survey Results VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability In 2020, professional air travel at the UW decreased more than 60% as a result of the mandatory stay at home orders and public health crisis. While some work of the university was negatively impacted, we quickly developed new skills for working and gathering virtually and experienced benefi ts such as increased participation, and reduced costs. Our goals for the next fiscal year are to build on what we learned to minimize unnecessary travel and to continue to pursue strategies for offsetting emissions from travel that is core to our mission. Target actions for 2022 Facilitate department/unit specific travel reduction Implement programs for offsetting air travel emissions View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Facilitate department/unit specific travel reduction We will encourage individual units and departments to adopt air travel reduction strategies that are tailored to their own activities and needs. The goal will be to help each department address the cost/benefit of travel to the individual, the unit and the work of the University, and thoughtfully discern when traveling is the best option. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Streamline the process of giving units on campus access to their travel data and related analytics. We will provide online access to travel data, updated monthly, to enable units to track their own behavior and emissions. Develop templates for travel policies that will include a definition of professional travel to be adopted by individual departments and units. We will create travel policy templates inspired by the videoconferencing statement created by the Department of Philosophy and the travel strategy of the Tyndall Center for Climate Change Research. Develop department-level air travel data reporting and make it accessible and inclusive. To support information about air travel related activity, we will conduct an analysis of financial impact savings from reduced air travel and associated costs. Additional qualitative assessments will be conducted for promoting health and well-being by not engaging in air travel. UW Sustainability will update the current reduction target that aligns with the emissions reduction goal set by the State of Washington. The working group (including members from the UW Travel office and UW Sustainability) will develop communications about the negative impacts of travel, the benefits of travel alternatives, and technologies to support these alternatives. Create a recognition program rewarding on-campus innovators. The structure is yet to be determined, but it is likely to (1) provide separate awards for the three campuses; (2) include one class of award(s) based on a quantitative GHG reduction metric; and (3) include one class of award(s) based on an individual’s innovation, leadership or advocacy. For future activity, lobby the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) for inclusion of professional air travel as a mandatory credit in version 3.0 of the Sustainability Tracking Assessment and Rating System (STARS). Concurrently, reach out to other national and regional sustainability related conference organizers to encourage use of telepresence. Responsible party UW Sustainability Statuses and linkages Beginning with UW’s 2017 greenhouse gas inventory (and accompanying baseline adjustment process), the University has established a methodology for computing a significant percentage of total professional air travel miles each year from existing data sources. Academic departments are actively seeking opportunities to promote hyper-local conferencing. Financing The recognition program can be funded with a surcharge applied to internal purchases of greenhouse gas offsets (see Action below). Metrics The primary metrics for Action success will be the travel footprint dashboard described in Step 1, the model guidelines for air travel reduction, the communication strategy, and the rewards program. Action: Implement programs for offsetting air travel emissions UW is working toward being a regional leader in ethical and appropriate greenhouse gas (GHG) offsets purchasing. During 2019 UW issued a request for procurement (RFP) and has since established a contractual relationship with GHG offsets broker ACT/ Evergreen. UW’s RFP was designed to select an offsets broker (rather than a single offset generation project) giving UW the broadest possible access to the voluntary GHG offsets market, with credible assurance and verification embedded in the offsets projects. Through the Washington Institutions of Public Higher Education clearinghouse, all public colleges and universities in Washington State will be able to take advantage of the winning broker’s services to make the best possible choices for offset purchases. Wisely purchased GHG offsets have three important co-benefits, beyond simply reducing UW’s carbon footprint: GHG offsets can provide financial support to developing nations, or economically disadvantaged communities in Washington. GHG offsets support low-carbon innovation. The selection of GHG offset type and assessment of GHG offset quality are an educational opportunity and provide an immediate impact to air quality and overall health. Carbon offsets raises and increases awareness of the amount of air travel and could serve as an incentive to change behavior for decreasing air travel. In addition to an offset program, we will work to create and implement a program to mitigate air travel emissions through carbon-reducing projects on campus. This should work closely with Targets VIII and X of the plan to engage ideas for the types of projects that could be identified for an internal offsets program. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Create a policy for a voluntary travel offsets program across campuses, focusing on faculty and staff, and engage students for project identification for carbon offsets, while inviting student research projects that evaluate the cost of carbon. Establish a task force to develop an internal carbon offsets program that engages departments and faculty research. Outline steps to take to eliminate all air travel emissions by 2050. Responsible party UW Sustainability Statuses and linkages This effort will be led by UW Sustainability and UW Facilities, but include broad outreach to the students, staff and faculty and engagement for educational opportunities. An internal carbon offsets program is linked to Targets VIII and X for identifying the types of projects that could be funded and measuring the amount of GHG emissions reductions from the UW inventory. Financing No additional financing required for FY 2022. This will be coordinated through current staffing from UW Sustainability, UW Facilities and Procurement Services. Metrics The primary metric will be the ratio of air travel offsets purchased, divided by total quantity of air travel reported in UW’s annual GHG inventory. A secondary metric will be the ratio of air travel offsets purchased divided by the year-on-year difference in air travel emissions. An additional metric will be a clear understanding of the feasibility of an internal offset program, as well as offsetting all travel related GHG emissions. If deemed feasible, then a preliminary action plan for moving the efforts forward. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Expand Online Conferencing As UW and the rest of the world struggle with the social distancing measures deployed to fight COVID-19, we are learning tremendous amounts about our ability to work effectively despite significantly reduced air travel and in-person meetings. We have made important institutional investments that allow for more widespread utilization of these tools, which was spurred out of necessity but has proven a significant environmental benefit for reduced air pollution. Now and in the years following resolution of the COVID-19 crisis, we are going to build on these new skills and technologies to significantly increase the proportion of meetings, presentations, research and gatherings that are conducted online rather than in person. UW staff and faculty who initiate or lead conferences will include online attendance options, add online side-events to major conferences, and in some cases organize entirely online events. New construction and major renovations are encouraged to consider design elements for meeting rooms that provide online presence for a group of researchers within a single field of view, or that offer more immersive telepresence. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Develop an enterprise-wide system for measuring online attendance (avoided air travel) in addition to actual air travel. Compare 2005 baseline with reductions achieved during the period of intensive COVID-related travel restrictions, and reassess the numerical Target as of July 1, 2021. Review the financial impact savings from reduced air travel and associated costs. UW Sustainability advocate across campus for intensified use of existing teleconferencing facilities. Begin identifying incentive programs that encourage use of teleconferencing facilities. This could be used in support of a UW-wide policy level change with increasing centralized tracking and reporting of air travel. Create a recognition program rewarding on-campus innovators. The structure is yet to be determined, but it is likely to (1) provide separate awards for the three campuses; (2) include one class of award(s) based on a quantitative GHG reduction metric, and (3) include one class of award(s) based on an individual’s innovation, leadership or advocacy. Lobby the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) for inclusion of professional air travel as a mandatory credit in version 3.0 of the Sustainability Tracking Assessment and Rating System (STARS). Concurrently, reach out to other national and regional sustainability related conference organizers to encourage use of telepresence. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Faculty Statuses and linkages Beginning with UW’s 2017 greenhouse gas inventory (and accompanying baseline adjustment process), the University has established a methodology for computing a significant percentage of total professional air travel miles each year from existing data sources. Academic departments are actively seeking opportunities to promote hyper-local conferencing. Financing The recognition program can be funded with a surcharge applied to internal purchases of greenhouse gas offsets (see other action). Metrics The primary metric for Action success will be the travel footprint described in Step 1. STARS does not include a credit representing this change directly. Action: Establish a Bank of High-Quality GHG Offsets UW is working toward being a regional leader in ethical and appropriate greenhouse gas (GHG) offsets purchasing. During 2019 UW issued a request for procurement (RFP) and has since established a relationship with GHG offsets broker ACT/ Evergreen. UW’s RFP was designed to select an offsets broker (rather than a single offset generation project) giving UW the broadest possible access to the voluntary GHG offsets market, and the best customer service toward stewarding an offsets purchasing program. Through the Washington Institutions of Public Higher Education clearinghouse, all public colleges and universities in Washington State will be able to take advantage of the winning broker’s services to make the best possible choices for offset purchases. Wisely purchased GHG offsets have three important co-benefits, beyond simply reducing UW’s carbon footprint: GHG offsets can provide financial support to developing nations, or economically disadvantaged communities in Washington. GHG offsets support low-carbon innovation. The selection of GHG offset type and assessment of GHG offset quality are an educational opportunity and provide an immediate impact to air quality and overall health. UW will hold bulk-purchased GHG offsets in a GHG offsets bank, in part for offsetting a portion of UW’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG inventory if needed, and in part to provide a convenient, trusted, and cost-efficient source of GHG offsets for professional travel. UW will take advantage of the wholesale discount available with a bulk purchase, to create a small, internal surcharge on offsets distributed from the bank. This surcharge will be used to fund the professional travel reduction award program. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Make UW’s first bulk purchase of offsets through our contracted broker. Work with the broker to set up a GHG offsets bank for use by faculty & staff travelers. Increase visibility of the travel offsets program across campuses, focusing on faculty and staff and engage students for project identification for carbon offsets, while inviting student research projects that evaluates the cost of carbon. Responsible party UW Sustainability, UW Facilities Statuses and linkages This is linked to offsetting emissions through air travel in the instance when air travel is the only option. The contract with the offsets broker has been secured. However, UW still needs to make decisions regarding quality and source of offsets to purchase. This effort will be led by UW Sustainability and UW Facilities, but include broad outreach to the students, staff and faculty and engagement for educational opportunities. Financing No additional financing required for FY 2021. This will be coordinated through current staffing from UW Facilities and Procurement Services. Metrics The primary metric for Action success will be the ratio of air travel offsets purchased, divided by total quantity of air travel reported in UW’s annual GHG inventory. AASHE STARS does not address professional travel emissions. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 Survey Results VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA