Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media What can I do? Paper reduction Paper reduction Close Menu Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Reducing paper helps save departments money and helps the environment - and it’s the law! The Washington state legislature has directed all state agencies, including the University of Washington, to reduce paper consumption by 30% and to purchase 100% recycled paper for copiers and printers. See below for resources and best practices to help your workplace reduce the amount of paper used. Fetch the Future: Rethink the ink! UW Records Management Services is working to transition the UW to entirely paperless records by Feb. 2, 2022. See the Fetch the Future page for resources, trainings and other information to help making the transition to all-electronic records as simple and painless as possible. Fetch the Future page Managed Print Services Managed Print Services is a sustainable service offered by an external supplier, Ricoh, to improve the way we copy and print documents, resulting in a reduction of paper consumption and can save departments up to 25% over current costs. Ricoh owns and manages the equipment and provides the supplies, eliminating the need for the University to purchase or lease printers and copiers. The MPS Program advances UW's environmental and sustainability initiatives through the elimination of equipment that consumes high levels of energy, better management of toner cartridges and their disposal, and reduction of paper consumption. Learn more More resources Paper conservation tips Utilize Green Office resources for paper conservation Create a migration plan to replace printers without duplex capability at the end of the current contract Share notes and documents online (through platforms such as Google Docs, OneNote, Wiki, or others) Track your printing Print duplex (double-sided) Use network printing to reduce personal desktop printers Turn expired stationary or unneeded one-sided documents (non-confidential) into scratch paper or notepads Centralized Fax Service enables individuals or groups to send and receive faxes without maintaining a physical fax machine. Rather than having faxes print out, faxes are sent or received using email or by accessing a simple-to-use web page. Follow UW Scanning Requirements Printer & copier best practices The UW is committed to reducing paper usage and other costs associated with copying and printing documents. Here are some tips to help your department meet these goals, by looking at the settings for printers, copiers, and multifunctional devices (MFD). Printing Set up your machine so that it defaults to "double-sided" (duplex) mode when you print documents. This can be done at the department server level if your IT processes are centrally managed in your department If not, individual desk computers need to be be set to default to duplex from your computer’s control panel Copying It is best to set your machine to default to copy single-sided when you need to copy documents. The Ricoh technician will set your device up to default to single sided copying as a default unless you tell them otherwise. Then, if the machine is defaulted to single sided and you're printing multiple pages you can adjust the copier or MFD to the appropriate setting right at the device (1:2, 2:2, etc.) based on your particular copying job. Color vs. Black & white Color prints and copies are significantly more expensive than B&W. We recommend that you set up your MFD defaults to B&W, and change it to color only when needed. This process can either be set up at the department level or at the desk level. Note: When the Ricoh technicians come to your department to install your devices, they will set the copy functions to default to black and white and single sided copy. For printing, they will work with the UW-IT resource to set the default printing to black and white and double-sided output unless requested differently. Recycling paper The city of Seattle prohibits recyclable paper and cardboard in landfill waste. Paper can be recycled in the mixed recycling bins on campus, or UW Recycling offers dedicated mixed paper Bagit stations in some offices, labs or shared spaces. Contact recycle@uw.edu for more information. Mixed paper poster You can post this informational graphic from UW Recycling regarding mixed paper recycling. (Click image to open PDF) Paper recycling infographic A downloadable poster with details on the ins and outs of paper recycling at UW. (Click image to open printable version) How are we doing? See the latest data on our paper consumption below or on our Information Portal "Workplace" page. Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA