Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Husky Green Awards Husky Green Awards 2012 Husky Green Awards 2012 Close Menu Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2012 Nominees 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards The third annual Husky Green Awards winners were announced at the celebration for Earth Day during HuskyFest by Ruth Johnston, Associate Vice President, UW Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability, Finance & Facilities. Six of fourteen nominees listed below were chosen as award recipients for the 2011-2012 academic year. Storm Hodge Assistant Director Dining Services, Housing and Food Services Storm Hodge oversees campus food services and the purchasing of over 8.5 million dollars in food and beverage purchasing. Through his leadership and direction, we have strived to buy more sustainably produced products that are sourced locally amounting to 54% of our overall purchases. Storm dedicates dining resources to ensure we continue to capture over 650 tons of waste per year that continues to be diverted to composting and away from landfills. As a department, under his leadership, we have spread the word on a national level, our composting and purchasing program; entertaining schools and business entities from around the country, touring our facilities and making resources available to drive sustainability initiatives at other institutions of higher learning. Other programs Storm has allocated resources to include the Student Biodiesel Coop, the UW Farm, our coffee roasting carbon footprint reduction, the transition to locally produced milk, and the UW Student Food Coop. Cheryl Wheeler & the Patio Display Garden team Patio Display Garden Team, UW Tower Green Team Cheryl Wheeler established the Patio Display Garden committee in 2008. The team's first project was replanting four planters in the courtyard of the UW Tower with low-maintenance herbs, fruits and vegetables. Since that time, Cheryl and her team of dedicated volunteers have replanted an additional 8 planters, converted an ivy and garbage-filled plot into a vegetable, berry & herb garden, replanted planted a soggy, ivy-filled pit with huckleberry bushes which they reclaimed from the landscape around a campus building which was being demolished, and donated fresh vegetables and herbs to the University Food Bank. The team regularly sponsors events where, in exchange for a donation to the University District Food Bank, participants can enjoy free treats, such as ice cream with garden strawberries, lingonberry crepes, fresh herbed focaccia bread and huckleberry muffins. Their efforts have not only beautified the Tower grounds, but have also encouraged tower occupants as well as general passersby to try their own hand at this easy method of food gardening. Katie Stultz Senior, Community, Environment & Planning major, and Campus Sustainability Fund Student Engagement Coordinator Katie is involved in numerous actitivies that have made the UW a much more sustainable institution and her interest in institutional change and advocating the student voice has been her legacy. Katie worked with three other students to establish the Campus Sustainability Fund in 2009/2010, served on the CSF Committee in its first year 2010/2011, and is currently the Student Engagement Coordinator for the CSF. She served as the ASUW legislative coordinator in 2011 and often lobbies for environmental issues and more at the state level. She established the Green Tea Party in 2011/2012, a networking group of UW RSO’s and related youth external organizations interested in sustainability. Katie worked to establish ASUW resolution in support of incorporating sustainability into the curriculum 2011 and has been following up with the Dean of the College of the Environment and other key groups on campus to make this into a reality. Katie is a very involved Community Environment and Planning major, and has been involved in the CEP committee, Headlights, which is the committee responsible for maintaining the vision of the major, where she provides an environmental sustainability focus, which is a cornerstone of the CEP major. Washington Student Athlete Advisory Council (WSAAC) Washington Student Athlete Advisory Council, Intercollegiate Athletics The members of the Washington Student Athlete Advisory Council (WSAAC)—specifically Terence Thomas and Gareth Gilna— have created a way to reward student-athletes who put forth an effort to help make the campus more environmentally friendly. Each year, the student-athletes at the University of Washington participate in a program called the Dog Bowl. This program pits Husky athletic teams against each other, with the goal to raise their academic, athletic and community efforts to the highest level. Points are earned through a variety of activities,and at the end of the year, the team with the most points wins a prize along with the Dog Bowl trophy. This year and in future years, thanks to Galina and Thomas, teams can now earn points for a variety of green activities. The categories include providing and managing proper recycling systems for the locker rooms, creating/participating in community events that promote sustainability, furthering awareness of sustainability activities in the athletic department through the media, and implementing a program that promotes sustainability. Thomas, for example, helped execute the recycling of used tennis balls by arranging a program in which they are donated to I.E.D dog trainers from Fort Lewis. WSAAC also plans to create a Green Award of its own, which will be rewarded to the team with the most “green points” at the end of the year. Dean Pearson Gardener Lead, Intercollegiate Athletics Dean Pearson began working at the University of Washington as a Gardener Lead for the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics in the summer of 2010. In addition to his duties preparing soccer, baseball and softball fields, Dean leads the clean up process following each football game in Husky Stadium. He personally oversees the crew that sorts the compost, recycling, and garbage after each game. Since his arrival, he has changed the process of cleaning the stadium from sorting recycling and garbage to sorting for compost as well. He has adjusted the steps and staffing to accommodate this shift in process. The crew now “reverse sorts”, which means the garbage is picked out and then everything else that remains in the stands is recycled and composted. Dean is also an enthusiastic member of the ICA Sustainability Committee. He suggested the implementation of the “Green Minute” on football game days, in which ushers collected recyclable bottles from the fans while a video and public address announcement encourage fans to compost and recycle. Dean’s integral role as a member of the Sustainability Committee and as the leader of the clean-up crews have contributed significant this past year to the increase in composted and recycled materials in Husky Stadium from 29% in 2009 to 43% 2011. Justin Hellier Graduate Student, Evans School of Public Affairs & College of Forest Resources In the first year of an intensive graduate program, Justin joined a group of inspired undergraduates as part of the Campus Sustainability Fund (CFS) Working Group. The combination of passion and competence that he brought to the work played a major role in CSF’s ultimate success. As the instructor for the Program on the Environment’s Sustainability Studio, Justin worked closely with nearly a hundred students over five quarters to envision and implement sustainability on campus. Under his leadership, his course has become a laboratory for sustainability experimentation and leadership development. Taking a close look at campus sustainability in terms of water, transportation, food, and biodiversity, he mentored student teams to perform cost-benefit analyses, take up behavior change research, and propose infrastructure improvements. Several of these student teams went on to present before University committees, and seek and receive funding from CSF. As one example of his dedication, he maintained role on campus sustainability fund board to see through its impact. Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2012 Nominees 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA