Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target V: Professional travel Target V: Professional travel Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Travel reduction resources Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions TARGET V: 5% LOWER EMISSIONS FROM PROFESSIONAL TRAVEL BY 2025 Status updates Quarterly status reports FY2022 1st Quarter (Summer 2021) FY2021 3rd & 4th Quarter (Winter & Spring 2020) FY2021 2nd Quarter (Fall 2020) FY2021 1st Quarter (Summer 2020) Action: Enhance Data Processing The UW began measuring travel emissions in 2005 with its first carbon inventory. In Fall Quarter 2015 and Winter Quarter 2016, a Keystone team of three graduate students researched the UW’s professional air travel. The project had three goals: Provide better accounting of UW air travel through reimbursement data Research faculty and staff attitudes toward travel Recommend steps to achieve future emissions reductions set out by the Climate Action Plan The team calculated that in 2014, UW travelers logged 84,075 flights, which consisted of 136 million miles and emissions of 23,811 MTCDE (metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent). The team recommended: Book flights through an universal booking system to make tracking UW’s air travel and emissions more efficient and accurate Consider using ground transportation for regional travel (<300 miles) Consider alternatives such as videoconferencing Develop a UW-wide policy regarding the purchase of carbon offsets Keystone team's full reportKeystone final presentation In 2018, the data processing strategies developed by the Keystone students were revised to be more accessible (using Excel rather than Matlab). A consultant, Roel Hammerschlag did this work and produced calculation tools and documentation: Air Travel Data Tool instructionsAir Travel Tool In 2020, a student from the Program On the Environment continued this work. He refined the data collection process and expanded it to include more information about the department and campus travelers are affiliated with. The Sustainability Office used the information compiled by this student and further documentation (in a more visual form): Travel Data Processing Visual Instructions Action: Engage Academic Departments During Summer Quarter 2016, two Capstone students followed up on the work completed by the 2015-16 Keystone student group. The Capstone students focused on developing and communicating the Keystone Team's recommendations (below). Regional travel alternatives comparison for trips <300 miles Develop a UW-wide policy regarding the purchase of carbon offsets (in process) Final Capstone presentations: Fight or Flight: Examining Academic Air Travel's Carbon Footprint Reducing the Impact of Professional Air Travel: Landing Alternatives for University Faculty and Staff In 2020, a Professional Travel Working group composed of faculty, staff and students was formed to implement the Sustainability Action Plan actions. As of early 2021, this group is compiling information to follow up on the recommendations of the Keystone/Capstone teams. Action: Expand Online Conferencing The actions listed in the Sustainability Action Plan for FY 20-21 are: Develop an enterprise-wide system for measuring online attendance (avoided air travel) in addition to actual air travel. Compare 2005 baseline with reductions achieved during the period of intensive COVID-related travel restrictions, and reassess the numerical Target as of July 1, 2021. Review the financial impact savings from reduced air travel and associated costs. UW Sustainability advocate across campus for intensified use of existing teleconferencing facilities. Begin identifying incentive programs that encourage use of teleconferencing facilities. This could be used in support of a UW-wide policy level change with increasing centralized tracking and reporting of air travel. Create a recognition program rewarding on-campus innovators. The structure is yet to be determined, but it is likely to (1) provide separate awards for the three campuses; (2) include one class of award(s) based on a quantitative GHG reduction metric, and (3) include one class of award(s) based on an individual’s innovation, leadership or advocacy. Lobby the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education (AASHE) for inclusion of professional air travel as a mandatory credit in version 3.0 of the Sustainability Tracking Assessment and Rating System (STARS). Concurrently, reach out to other national and regional sustainability related conference organizers to encourage use of telepresence. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have made these actions less relevant than they were when first written so the team has chosen to focus its efforts on the data processing and academic engagement activities listed above. Action: Establish a Bank of High-Quality GHG Offsets Make UW’s first bulk purchase of offsets through our contracted broker. Work with the broker to set up a GHG offsets bank for use by faculty & staff travelers. Increase visibility of the travel offsets program across campuses, focusing on faculty and staff and engage students for project identification for carbon offsets, while inviting student research projects that evaluates the cost of carbon. Resources UW Sustainability has compiled a list of resources for travelers interested in alternatives to air travel, especially for shorter range trips. We have also created a list of spaces across the University of Washington with videoconferencing technology. Travel reduction resources Videoconferencing at UW The case for reducing academic travel Western Political Science Association statement, "The Climate Crisis, Academic Conferences, and the Western Political Science Association," November 20, 2019 Flying Less in Academia: A Resource Guide. This guide, co-edited by Ryan Katz-Rosene and Parke Wilde among others, is indispensable. Flying Less FAQ Research on professional academic travel & sustainability An analysis of ways to decarbonize conference travel after COVID-19 Biennials, regional hubs and virtual attendance can slash emissions, new calculations show. Online Meetings in Times of Global Crisis: Toward Sustainable Conferencing All in all, online conferences are not likely to entirely replace in-person meetings. However, a global crisis has created another stage for emerging online tools that have the potential to dramatically reduce the scientific “travel circus” and provide a more accessible, inclusive, and diverse platform for scientific exchange. This progress could be further enhanced by the development of digital technologies (e.g., virtual reality) and introducing “hybrid conference” events including both in-person and online sessions. We hope that the community uses this momentum to transform the conference experience in the future. MedChemTrain e‐School 2020: Event Highlights and Insights into Virtual Symposium Organization Virtual events are flourishing with the world lockdown due to the COVID‐19 pandemic. As a result of the cancelation or postponement of scheduled physical meetings, a revolution in medicinal chemistry scientific meetings occurred, leading to an increase in new strategies to share science. One example are online events, namely e‐schools or webinars. Taking this into consideration, we decided to promote the MedChemTrain e‐School 2020, a virtual event aiming to bring together the scientific community and share some updates in the medicinal chemistry field. After organizing this free event, with more than 1.4 thousand participants worldwide, we decided to share some insights about the logistics behind organizing a virtual symposium to help scientists with this new challenge in science communication. The Online Alternative: Sustainability, Justice, and Conferencing in Philosophy The recent global pandemic has led to a shift to online conferences in philosophy. In this paper we argue that online conferences, more than a temporary replacement, should be considered a sustainable alternative to in-person conferences well into the future. We present three arguments for more online conferences, including their reduced impact on the environment, their enhanced accessibility for groups that are minorities in philosophy, and their lower financial burdens, especially important given likely future reductions in university budgets. We also present results from two surveys of participants who attended one large and three small online philosophy conferences this year. We show that participants were in general very satisfied with presentations and discussions at the conferences, and that they reported greater accessibility. This indicates that online conferences can serve as a good alternative to in-person conferences. We also find that networking was less satisfactory in online conferences, indicating a point for improvement and further research. In general, we conclude that philosophers should continue to organize online conferences after the pandemic. We also provide some advice for those wishing to organize online conferences. Stories about ways the UW has accommodated COVID-19 inspired restrictions: Enabling work & study from home: How UW IT supports remote working Transferring to home-based call centers Supporting study from home for students with disabilities Rapid increase in use of remote learning technologies Resources for teaching online Travel data Home Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Travel reduction resources Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Newsletter Signup Sustainability Plan More information and resources Read the full Sustainability Action Plan University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA