Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target II: Sustainability Framework Target II: Sustainability Framework Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions ONE UW-WIDE SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK BY 2022 For Fiscal Year 2022, we are working on four actions toward this target: Finalize and publish the university-wide definition of sustainability Develop standardized reporting of academic content Identify minimum learning outcomes Determine feasibility of a student sustainability hub See full target details Plan homepage Action: Finalize and publish the university-wide definition of sustainability Through an interactive process of gathering ideas and feedback from students, faculty and staff at all three UW campuses, we’ve devised a definition of sustainability. You can see the definition, its goals and a description of the development process on the Definition of Sustainability page. See the full action details Updates as of March 2022 The definition has been approved by the Environmental Sustainability Committee and our president, Ana Mari, and is due to be brought to the Board of Deans and Chancellors for final approval. Action: Develop standardized reporting of academic content This effort has involved identifying courses that have sustainability content and exploring options for making this information accessible. See the full action details Updates As of March, 2022 In Winter Quarter 2022, two students from the Program on the Environment analyzed the entire list of courses offered at UW's Seattle campus to determine which have sustainability content or are sustainability-focused (as defined by the UW definition of sustainability). Our next step is to have each academic department review and approve of this work so we can begin making it accessible. In parallel, we’ve explored options for reporting this information. The most visible strategy would be to include it in myPlan, but there are considerable barriers to making changes to this system which needs to balance the need for students to search for courses along numerous parameters while keeping the interface manageable. Our initial plan is to display the course on the UW Sustainability website while we continue to look for ways to make the information more accessible. Action: Identify minimum learning outcomes We are working to identify core sustainability skills and competencies for all UW students as an initial step to develop a university-wide set of learning outcomes that can incorporated in existing and new courses, regardless the discipline or concentration, in order to address a full range of ecological, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. See full action details Updates As of March, 2022: In December 2021, a small, multi-campus group of faculty who teach sustainability-focused courses convened to discuss identifying minimal learning outcomes for sustainability at the UW. Below is a summary of the insights gathered from this conversation. They will inform the our SAP for 2022-2023: Our learning objectives should focus on what students will be able to do out in the world. Learning should be experiential and participative to be impactful. We need to address the different domains of learning: knowledge, experience/exposure, commitment, critical reflection. We should think about healing as important aspect embedded in this exploration; recognize the importance of acknowledging traumas to help us move to a different relationship with how we manage time and the idea of success. How to incentivize this work: Align with UW-wide initiatives to get engagement across the University. Create a fellowship (to allow people time to do this work and to create a support network). The UBC fellows program is a model. It has shown impact in advancing sustainability as a core value for the university. Another model is COE's workshop for faculty to incorporate environmental justice into their curriculum A model for aligning course objectives is Bothell's work on courses that use COIL (Collaborative, Online, International Learning) There are many parallel efforts across campus - we should be leveraging and connecting those rather than creating new ones. We need to provide transparency; to see that we're in sync and having common ideas. Action: Determine feasibility of a student sustainability hub The goal is to develop a tricampus model for ongoing student sustainability engagement and research, through Campus as a Living Lab and determining need and use cases of a student-facing Sustainability Hub on the Seattle campus. See full action details Updates as of March, 2022 In March 2021, a group of students from the Sustainability Studio course made a case for having a physical on-campus Sustainability Hub. In early October 2021, the Campus Sustainability Fund coordinator and a UW Sustainability staff member attended an ASUW Senate meeting to gauge their support and get feedback on potential locations, priorities etc. The HUB was considered an ideal location, but there is no space available. Facilities space planning staff have been helping to explore other possibilities. In the meantime, the work of the Student Sustainability Hub has gotten underway: the UW Sustainability/CSF DEI Coordinator is working on engaging underrepresented groups across campus, these relationships being an important foundation for future planning around the "HUB" concept. We’re also working with student groups including Green Greeks, Ecoreps & ICA, to enhance awareness of one another's efforts and provide feedback on the work of the Sustainability Action Plan. Target progress Quarterly status reports FY2021 3rd & 4th Quarter (Winter & Spring 2021) FY2021 2nd Quarter (Fall 2020) FY2021 1st Quarter (Summer 2020) Target metrics Metrics to track progress toward this target are being developed. Guiding principles of this target Ensure Students Achieve Sustainability Literacy Keep Equity and Inclusion at the Center Home Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Newsletter Signup Sustainability Plan More information and resources Read the full Sustainability Action Plan University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA