Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Husky Green Awards Husky Green Awards 2017 Husky Green Awards 2017 Close Menu Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2017 nominees 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards The Husky Green Awards are celebrating their eighth year of recognizing sustainability leadership at the University of Washington. The award ceremony took place on Friday, April 21, at 1 p.m. during the 2017 Earth Day celebration in Red Square, presented by two-time Husky Green Award winner Talia Haller and UW Bothell Vice Chancellor Ruth Johnston. The Husky Green Awards are given annually to students, faculty and staff from the Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses who show environmental leadership and dedication. See all the 2017 Husky Green Award recipients below, or see the full list of the 2017 nominees. Campus Sustainability Fund student group The Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) is a student-run organization which provides grants for student-initiated environmental projects at the University of Washington. By the end of this year, the CSF will have granted more than $2 million to around 100 separate projects since launching in 2010. CSF grant decisions are made by a seven-member student committee, who make decisions on how to allocate approximately $350,000 from the Student Activities Fees each year. Projects funded have included the expansion of the UW Farm, solar panel installations, bike repair stations, a biodiversity green wall, numerous feasibility studies for new technologies and student events. CSF embodies student leadership at the UW. Each year the student committee and student coordinators turn over, yet the CSF has been consistent and thorough with vetting and reviewing project proposals to make sure all funds go toward efforts that directly benefit students. Read more UW Solar student group UW Solar is an interdisciplinary, student-run organization committed to developing solar energy projects on the UW campus and in the greater Seattle area. The group was founded in 2012 to champion a solar installation on the top of Mercer Court A, the first middle-scale solar project on campus. Since then, UW Solar has continued to work with university partners to identify other opportunities for solar installations, and this year was part of an effort with UW and Seattle City Light that installed solar arrays on three other West Campus residence halls as part of a solar testbed. This fall UW Solar became not only a student organization but also a 1-2 credit Vertical Integrated Project (VIP) course, which provides more opportunities for students to remain involved for at least two quarters working on UW Solar projects. Read more Bethany Staelens staff, Continuum College Bethany goes above and beyond to advocate for sustainabliity efforts on campus. She spearheads the UW Tower's "Green Team," where she has been instrumental in several sustainability initiatives, including improving the Tower's waste diversion. She is also a member of the UW Committee for Paper Reduction, where she has been a key figure in many outreach campaigns, including a recent video showcasing the importance of paper reduction on campus. She is pushing sustainability to the next level and always trying to figure out the next way to spread the word on campus. Read more Cassie Maylor student, Student Association for Green Environments (SAGE)/ReThink UW Cassie has a history of taking on leadership roles in sustainability related projects at the University of Washington. She is heavily involved in two environmental campus student groups, as the co-President of SAGE and the Vice President of Operations of ReThink UW, and is also a student assistant for the UW Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship, where she has helped organize events and coordinated outreach to students for the Alaska Airlines Environmental Innovation Challenge’s Executive Committee. Read more Gene Woodard staff, Building Services Gene Woodard, director for Facilities Services Building Services, prioritizes main goals of the department - green cleaning, waste diversion, and safety. He champions the Custodial Services Green Cleaning Policy, which constantly researches ways to use less harmful chemicals and to conserve energy and water. He supports making MiniMax the "UW Way" across campus, so all staff and students have the access and the knowledge to sort their waste - and he makes sure that custodial staff know how to dispose of each material. And finally, he takes initiative to reduce illness and/or injuries on campus by supporting training and education across the department - it is crucial to him that the campus is sanitary and employees are safe. UW Custodial Services and UW Recycling have won several national sustainability awards under his leadership. Read more Judy Twedt graduate student, Atmospheric Sciences Judy has displayed remarkable creativity and initiative in leading two sustainability efforts on campus: one that engages with labor unions about climate change issues, and one that turns environmental data into widely-heard, artistic sound pieces. These efforts have each been remarkably successful in reaching communities that are not often served by UW outreach efforts. Judy founded a Climate Change Speakers' Bureau which talks to local labor unions about climate change, which has already reached thousands of people in just a few months of existence. She has also led an "environmental infosonics" initiative, which calls attention to environmental problems by representing key datasets with sound. Learn more at UWTV. Read more Kristi Straus faculty, Program on the Environment Kristi Straus is a lecturer in the College’s Environmental Studies program. She is passionate about environmental conservation and effective teaching of environmental topics for students of all ages. Her work focuses on conservation of local marine invertebrates, as well as the science of science education. She not only works to teach her about our current environmental challenges, but she also helps highlight the impact they can make and empowers them to create change. Read more Sarah Geurkink staff, UW Farm Sarah became the UW Farm's first full-time manager in 2013 and expanded the farm's footprint and reach through student engagement, projects and education programs. Through Sarah's leadership, the UW Farm expanded the amount and diversity of produce grown at the farm, as well as the farm's reach. She built partnerships with outside vendors and internal partners, while improving sustainability in operations through projects like worm compost bins, a composting toilet and new buildings for farm use. Under her oversight, the UW Farm created a CSA program and expanded the relationship with Housing and Food Services to offer UW Farm produce to students at locations such as Cultivate and District Market. Sarah also worked to connect student's academic efforts to the real-world work at the farm, including organizing classes and other educational opportunities. Sarah recently left UW to become the production manager at Michigan State University's Student Organic Farm. Shelby Cramer student, Environmental Studies Shelby is pursuing a degree in Environmental Studies, with a focus on environmental education and communication. She is particularly interested in how we use communication as a tool to guide communities towards sustainable decision-making and has directed her academic focus to exploring the intersection between equity and sustainability. Shelby's capstone project focused on environmental justice and the community around the Duwamish SuperFund site. As part of an internship with the EPA, she looked at how organizations engaged with the South Park community around the site and how that outreach impacts the actions and opinions of community members about the site. She helps coordinate the UW Environment Undergraduate Student Ambassador Program, which connects prospective students with current undergraduates in the College of the Environment, as one of two Student Services Student Assistants for the College of the Environment Dean’s Office. She is also an officer in SAGE and dedicates her time to sustainability projects on campus. Read more Legacy Award Winner: Housing & Food Services UW department UW Housing and Food Services has shown a long-term dedication to sustainability through its operations and willingness to engage with students. HFS's dining operations strive to source local, natural and organic products, and utilizes compostable packaging and serviceware in its offerings. In the residence halls, HFS engages and educates students around sustainability issues, and partners with the Students Expressing Environmental Dedication (SEED) student group to promote environmentally-sound practices. New residence hall construction incorporates many sustainability features, such as the rainwater system at Mercer Court which filters and recycles rainwater for use in the student laundry facilities. HFS has embraced its unique role to provide a "Living Lab" on campus by partnering with student initatives like the UW Solar installations on several residence halls, the UW Farm location at Mercer Court, and more. Housing & Food Services was recently recognized in a national Sustainability Campus Index Report by the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education. Honorable mention: Individuals Toni Baullinger, staff, Harborview Medical Center Hospital Pathology Joseph Blake, student Claudia Christensen, staff, Purchasing Carrie Cone, staff, School of Environmental and Forest Sciences Nick Fang, student Kristine Matthews, faculty, Visual Communication Design Mac Robinson, student, EcoReps Dean Seaman, staff, UW Recycling Victoria Shao, student Everett Spring, staff, Capital Planning and Development Wendy Star, staff, School of Environmental and Forest Sciences Caroline Sullivan, student Travis White, staff, Capital Planning and Development Groups ASUW Student Food Co-op Facilities Services LED Lighting Team Green Greeks Livable City Year UW Reycling Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2017 nominees 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA