Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home How to Join Info for Parents Greek Terminology Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home About Contact & Staff Organizations Interfraternity Council Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council Panhellenic Council Prospective Members Information for Parents Hazing Prevention Hazing Myths and Realities Information for Greek Members Home About Organizations Prospective Members Hazing Prevention How to Join Info for Parents Greek Terminology Information For... OFFICE OF FRATERNITY AND SORORITY PROGRAMS - DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS Go Greek with Tulane Fraternities & Sororities! Welcome! Our office is responsible for every aspect of Greek Life: we advise the leaders of our chapters and governing councils; create educational, risk management, and leadership programming opportunities; act as liaisons to neighbors of the fraternity and sorority houses; and work with the inter/national headquarters of each organization to reduce risk, enhance programs, and ensure the advancement of fraternity and sorority life on the Tulane University campus. Browse our site to learn more about our organizations, the different governing councils, how to join and more. If you have questions, suggestions, or comments, please contact the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Programs. Thank you for visiting and GO GREEK! Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Select a CategoryQuick Links How to Join Greek Terminology Information for Parents Organizations Interfraternity Council Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council Panhellenic Council Prospective Members Interfraternity Council Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Membership National Pan-Hellenic Council Intake Panhellenic Council Recruitment Hazing Prevention Hazing Prevention Hazing Myths and Realities Information on Hazing for Greek Members Eligibility Requirements Full-time, degree-seeking Tulane student Have earned 12 hours with a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA In good standing with Tulane (no Student Conduct sanctions resulting in Disciplinary Probation or Deferred Suspension and no Honor Board convictions) Complete all 4 components of the Potential New Member Series How to Join spacer 42% of Tulane Students are in a Greek Organization. Spring 2017’s Average Greek GPA was 3.419! Panhellenic raised $60,000, allowing 15 sorority women to travel to Malawi and build a school for girls in May 2017. Every Fraternity and Sorority new member attended a sexual violence prevention program during the Fall 2016 semester. Connect with Tulane Office of Fraternity and Sorority Programs Follow us on Facebook and Instagram! Link to Tulane Home Page Office of Fraternity and Sorority Programs Lavin Bernick Center for University Life 6823 St. Charles Avenue Suite G04 New Orleans, LA 70118 Office: 504-247-1542 Maps & Directions About Our Community Organizations Prospective Members Hazing Prevention Contact & Staff Tulane News Give to Tulane Neighborhood Relations Contact the University Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Browse Tulane University on Flickr See Tulane University on Pinterest ---> Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University