Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Everything we throw away is something that we don’t need. That may seem self-evident, but combined with life-cycle thinking it means an opportunity to reduce manufacturing emissions, energy consumption, transportation, and even raw materials extraction associated with whatever object we didn’t need. “Reduce, reuse, recycle” remains a powerful hierarchy of solid waste management, but there are even more details of product and materials management, economics, and urban ecology that can receive both our research attention and our operational attention. Target actions for 2022 Divert compostable waste from recycling and landfill Implement low-waste campus kitchens Reduce single-use disposable items View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Divert compostable waste from recycling and landfill The UW landfilled 4,812 tons of material in FY2019; the 2025 goal is to generate less than 4,332 tons annually. Based on the 2018 waste characterization study, we estimate that 19% of our landfilled waste is compostable paper and 14% is food waste. UW generates about twice as much compostable waste compared to recyclable waste. While UW recycles 63% of recyclable materials that are discarded, only 46% of compostable waste is composted on campus (48% of it is landfilled and 5% of it contaminates our recycling). The UW generated 1,933 tons of mixed recycling. Based on the same study, we estimate that the recycling is contaminated by 7% food waste and 6% compostable paper. Recycling has been available in many forms on campus for decades but compost is relatively new. By focusing on increasing access to and awareness of compost on campus, the UW can not only reduce the amount of landfilled material and the corresponding carbon footprint, but also ensure our recyclable items are clean and recycled successfully. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Increase compost capacity. Increase outreach/awareness for proper waste sorting. Responsible party UW Recycling Statuses and linkages There are compost bins in every kitchen, dining area, and restroom in every building on campus. Most buildings have compost bins in lobbies, public areas and hallways as well, but there are still several that don’t meet new waste infrastructure guidelines with expanded compost collection. UW Recycling currently advertises the importance of composting on digital boards in Residence Halls, Dining Halls and the HUB. UW Recycling also provides free training and resources about composting to all UW Seattle staff, faculty and students and can be leveraged for use by Bothell and Tacoma campuses. Financing UW Recycling’s operating budget should cover the work of increasing awareness and improving infrastructure so people can compost rather than recycle/landfill their compostable material. Metrics Compost rate/# of buildings with added composting facility (37 buildings in Seattle). Number of outreach events and number of attendees. Action: Implement low-waste campus kitchens By FY2023, HFS will seek to have all UW Dining kitchens transition to low-waste by reducing waste volumes by 10%. Current kitchen waste levels are a result of over-production and over-purchasing due to a lack of robust historical data, analysis, and forecasting tools. Increased data creates more informed forecasting, which in turn allows UW Dining to more accurately estimate the volume and needs of patrons. HFS will take Actions to increase the accuracy of these estimates which will ultimately result in a 10% reduction of over-production and over-purchasing, to be maintained in perpetuity. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Identify all non-HFS dining locations. Create training materials for low waste kitchens. Provide training materials and meet with non-HFS dining leaders. Responsible party UW Recycling and Housing & Food Services Statuses and linkages Over-production and over-purchasing tracking is currently being manually facilitated within HFS Dining units with some limitations including but not limited to comprehensive cost tracking, production scheduling, and automated menu-driven ordering. Weekly inventory data is also being recorded via mobile inventory and is routinely reviewed for appropriate stock levels. In order to achieve automated data retention, tracking and analysis, HFS Dining must complete implementation of CBORD FSS within its dining units. Financing Implementation of manual over-production and over-purchasing tracking necessitated a nominal investment and is currently being utilized in units. The purchase and implementation of weekly inventory occurred in fall of 2019. Implementation of the menu management software required to achieve low-waste in perpetuity will require a budget of approximately $171,000, requested and approved in April 2019. These costs include software and technology investments as well as implementation consulting and staff training; additional costs will be reassessed as they arise. Metrics Number of dining units provided information. Waste Diversion Through Donation Besides reducing our kitchen waste, we also have a plan for better handling the waste that we do have. Some high-quality food waste can avoid either landfilling or composting, and instead be donated to other organizations. 2019 food recovery for donation was 15,000 pounds (9,000 pounds from Housing & Food Services/Dining, and 6,000 pounds from UW Recycling’s student moveout collection program). Our goal is to reach 16,000 pounds collected for donation by 2022. Action: Reduce single-use disposable items The University of Washington has partnered with the Post- Landfill Action Network for an Atlas Fellowship to complete a holistic assessment of the UW’s waste reduction across the three campuses. With the report, the UW will have a better understanding and benchmarks of what systems we have in place and what systems are needed to reduce waste. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Complete and review a tri-campus zero waste assessment report. Share results with stakeholders and identify opportunities. Responsible party UW Recycling Statuses and linkages The zero-waste assessment will provide us information on our entire waste infrastructure, and the findings will inform our efforts to reduce single-use disposables, as well as other current and future Actions under this target. Financing UW Recycling’s budget will include the work of reviewing the assessment report and sharing results with stakeholders. Metrics After the assessment is completed, we will evaluate possible measures and determine metrics. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Divert Compostable Waste from Recycling and Landfilling The UW landfilled 4,812 tons of material in FY2019; the 2025 goal is to generate less than 4,332 tons annually. Based on the 2018 waste characterization study, we estimate that 19% of our landfilled waste is compostable paper and 14% is food waste. UW generates about twice as much compostable waste compared to recyclable waste. While UW recycles 63% of recyclable materials that are discarded, only 46% of compostable waste is composted on campus (48% of it is landfilled and 5% of it contaminates our recycling). The UW generated 1,933 tons of mixed recycling. Based on the same study, we estimate that the recycling is contaminated by 7% food waste and 6% compostable paper. Recycling has been available in many forms on campus for decades but compost is relatively new. By focusing on increasing access to and awareness of compost on campus, the UW can not only reduce the amount of landfilled material and the corresponding carbon footprint, but also ensure our recyclable items are clean and recycled successfully. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Infrastructure: increase compost capacity and update public area bins in 37 buildings, including UW Tower. Outreach: increase in-person and online outreach about proper waste disposal. Implement online waste diversion training, for example create a course in the Bridge Enterprise Training System required for all UW Facilities Staff, and optional for all UW staff. If possible, expand the online Bridge waste diversion training to students if possible and/or affordable. Otherwise, find alternatives to provide waste education online for students. Responsible party UW Recycling Statuses and linkages There are compost bins in every kitchen, dining area, and restroom in every building on campus. Most buildings have compost bins in lobbies, public areas and hallways as well, but there are still several that don’t meet new waste infrastructure guidelines with expanded compost collection. UW Recycling currently advertises the importance of composting on digital boards in Residence Halls, Dining Halls and the HUB. UW Recycling also provides free training and resources about composting to all UW Seattle staff, faculty and students and can be leveraged for use by Bothell and Tacoma campuses. Financing UW Recycling’s operating budget should cover the work of increasing awareness and improving infrastructure so people can compost rather than recycle/landfill their compostable material. That being said, UW Recycling anticipates needing additional funding to increase compost capacity in the following fiscal year (new indoor bins: $100,000 and new outdoor bins: $150,000). Metrics Compost rate/# of buildings with added composting facility (38 buildings in Seattle). Diversion rate change as a result of outreach and training. STARS does not include a credit representing this change directly. Diverting waste from the landfill would directly impact STARS OP-19 Waste Minimization and Diversion (only criteria Part 3 directly). Action: Implement Low-Waste Campus Kitchens By FY2023, HFS will seek to have all UW Dining kitchens transition to low-waste by reducing waste volumes by 10%. Current kitchen waste levels are a result of over-production and over-purchasing due to a lack of robust historical data, analysis, and forecasting tools. Increased data creates more informed forecasting, which in turn allows UW Dining to more accurately estimate the volume and needs of patrons. HFS will take Actions to increase the accuracy of these estimates which will ultimately result in a 10% reduction of over-production and over-purchasing, to be maintained in perpetuity. Steps we will take in FY 2021 HFS Dining will invest in and implement CBORD FSS menu management system in dining locations to aid in more comprehensive forecasting. These efforts will allow UW Dining to more accurately estimate the number of dining patrons and reduce over-purchasing that adds to waste. HFS Dining will utilize over-production tracking within the dining units. The overproduction process and data will be used for two purposes; data will be entered into the menu management software to be used to improve future forecasting. Food that is identified as over-production will be diverted to a local food bank or donation group to be further utilized. HFS Dining will review over-production and over-purchasing data as well as weekly inventory data and reports routinely to identify and take action against potential points of waste reduction, ultimately reducing the waste stream produced by HFS Dining kitchens. Responsible party Housing & Food Services Statuses and linkages Over-production and over-purchasing tracking is currently being manually facilitated within HFS Dining units with some limitations including but not limited to comprehensive cost tracking, production scheduling, and automated menu-driven ordering. Weekly inventory data is also being recorded via mobile inventory and is routinely reviewed for appropriate stock levels. In order to achieve automated data retention, tracking and analysis, HFS Dining must complete implementation of CBORD FSS within its dining units. Financing Implementation of manual over-production and over-purchasing tracking necessitated a nominal investment and is currently being utilized in units. The purchase and implementation of weekly inventory occurred in fall of 2019. Implementation of the menu management software required to achieve low-waste in perpetuity will require a budget of approximately $171,000, requested and approved in April 2019. These costs include software and technology investments as well as implementation consulting and staff training; additional costs will be reassessed as they arise. Metrics Calculate the percentage of food tracked in dining halls by the total diverted food in 2019-2020. In addition, UW Dining will utilize menu management software to provide poundage and cost data relating to overproduced, donated, and wasted food. STARS does not include a credit representing this change directly. Waste Diversion Through Donation Besides reducing our kitchen waste, we also have a plan for better handling the waste that we do have. Some high-quality food waste can avoid either landfilling or composting, and instead be donated to other organizations. 2019 food recovery for donation was 15,000 pounds (9,000 pounds from Housing & Food Services/Dining, and 6,000 pounds from UW Recycling’s student moveout collection program). Our goal is to reach 16,000 pounds collected for donation by 2022. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA