Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Husky Green Awards Husky Green Awards 2016 Husky Green Awards 2016 Close Menu Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2016 nominees 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards The Husky Green Awards celebrated their seventh year of recognizing sustainability leadership at the University of Washington, with an award ceremony during the 2016 Earth Day celebration in Red Square. Dr. Lisa Graumlich, Dean of the College of the Environment, and Student Regent Vanessa Kritzer presented the awards to the seven 2016 Husky Green Award winners. The Husky Green Awards are given annually to students, faculty and staff from the Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses who show environmental leadership and dedication. See all the 2016 Husky Green Award recipients below, or see the full list of the 2016 nominees. Aaron Tam Senior, president UW Earth Club Aaron Tam is actively involved with several organizations on campus, including Carbon Washington, Earth Club, and UW Recycling. As Earth Club president, he has been involved in plastic water bottle reduction on campus and developed environmental projects on climate action. Tam has also been the student outreach coordinator for the UW Recycling team since 2013. He is actively involved in raising awareness on how to properly recycle and compost on campus and has come up with new and innovative ways to motivate students to maintain the cleanliness at football games and events. He also collaborates with the UW Sustainability Office, campus environmental clubs and UW Recycling to setup large-scale projects, including football bluebag recycling outreach, Dawg Daze, RecycleMania, and Earth Day. As UW campus coordinator for Carbon Washington, Tam has led many community service projects in habitat restoration and petition gathering. He was also the only UW undergraduate student to collect over $1,400 signatures for the Carbon Washington initiative and was one of three speakers selected out of thousands to deliver a speech on climate action. This past February he also met with legislators in Olympia to discuss 732 Lobby Day, a pivotal moment for potentially reducing fossil fuels in the state of Washington. Read more about Aaron Tam on the In Our Nature blog. Melanie Wade Senior, UW Athletics UW fans know Melanie Wade for her contributions to the Husky volleyball team, including All-Pac-12 Honorable Mention nods her junior and senior year. Off the court, she's worked throughout her career to implement sustainability initiatives within the UW athletic department and across the campus as a whole. Wade is the student-athlete representative for the athletic department sustainability committee, and worked for a summer an an intern with Karen Baebler, the chair of the committee, where she was in charge of creating a social media presence on Facebook and Twitter (including creating ECO, the stuffed husky who is the face of the GoGreenHuskies twitter account). She also worked with the athletic department staff to create three short videos that encouraged fans to compost and highlighted the importance of composting and recycling. They were featured in the Alaska Airlines Arena during volleyball season. Wade pushed to get composting in the volleyball team locker, and helped with a research study measuring waste in the HUB to learn more about how people were disposing of food items. Wade is also conducting her own research for her social psychology class to see how different environmental advertisements, pro-environment and anti-environment, affect environmental issues. Read more about Melanie Wade on the In Our Nature blog. Rebeca Rivera UW Bothell, Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Rebeca Rivera is leading the effort to create a campus garden at UW Bothell, providing a a common space for growing sustainable food, independent study, and putting on class demonstrations. To make the garden as best as it can be, Rivera often collaborates with the UW Farm and other community leaders in sustainable agriculture and education. She has been a mentor for students who have been involved with the process of creating the garden, including creating a student organization to maintain the space. Rivera also dedicates her time in helping students develop leadership skills in sustainability, such as frequently engaging her students in assessments of the waste streams on campus while encouraging waste reduction and composting. Read more about Rebeca Rivera on the In Our Nature blog. Tali Haller Sophomore, Green Greek program, Sigma Kappa sorority The first two-time Husky Green Award winner, Tali Haller has won the award both as a freshman and a sophomore for her efforts in promoting sustainability in the UW Greek community and beyond. As a freshman, Haller worked on a pilot project to track light usage in the sorority house to serve as the "case study" to show the potential for waste and energy efficiency in Sigma Kappa buildings nationwide. She has continued to work on sustainability efforts in her own house, and has also helped launch the Green Greek representative program through EcoReps, which works with representatives from all Greek houses on campus to implement sustainable practices. She has also participated in the Environmental Alternative Spring Break and has worked as field manager at Seattle’s Fund for the People’s Interest. She hopes to have a career where she can create environmental change at the international level. Read more about Tali Haller on the In Our Nature blog. Confronting Climate Change UW student group In the spring of 2015, the student group Confronting Climate Change - also known as Divest UW - celebrated a victory when the University of Washington's Board of Regents voted to divest from coal companies. The move was one that the group had fought for. In 2012, Divest UW delivered a petition to then-UW president Michael Young requesting fossil fuel divestment. Afterward, the students continued to press the UW administration, leading to the divestment vote. Confronting Climate Change isn't content with stopping there. Alex Lenferna, one of the key leaders in Confronting Climate Change, has done a lot of work to put a price on carbon pollution in Washington state. Lenferna, including other team members from the group, helped develop I-732, an initiative that will promote cleaner energy and make polluting more expensive. This initiative will be in the November 2016 ballot. Read more about Confronting Climate Change on the In Our Nature blog. Native Plant Nursery Society for Ecological Restoration, UW Chapter The Society for Ecological Restoration's UW Chapter has been working to restore native plants to areas around campus, with the help of their native plant nursery. The nursery allows SER-UW to restore areas on campus by increasing native species biodiversity and creating open spaces for students to engage with the natural world just steps from their residence halls. The plant nursery is on the grounds of the Center for Urban Horticulture on the northeastern edge of campus. Graduate student co-managers Anna Carragee and Kelly Broadlick have worked to establish and expand the nursery, including getting a Campus Sustainablity Fund (CSF) grant to build a new hoop house to expand the nursery's capacity. Read more on the In Our Nature blog. Salvage Wood Program Facilities Services Grounds Management The Salvage Wood Program at the University of Washington is working to make sure any trees which need to be removed on campus can have a second life. The program, run by Grounds Management and made possible by a Campus Sustainability Fund grant and help from the UW chapter of Engineers Without Borders, turns those removed trees into lumber for projects on campus such as benches and tables. This keeps the wood out of the waste stream while providing a greater connection to the natural environment of campus. Read more on the Facilities Services blog. Honorable Mention: Individuals Salina Abraham, student, School of Environmental and Forest Sciences/Economics Christopher Adams, staff, Molecular Engineering & Sciences Institute Katie Corp, student, Clean Energy Institute fellow Casey Gifford, staff, UW Transportation Sarah Geurkink, staff, UW Farm Veronica Guenther, student, Community, Environment & Planning Carolyn Hartman, student, Community, Environment & Planning/School of Environmental and Forest Sciences Dale Hunter, staff, Asian Languages and Literature Kathryn Jansen, staff, Department of Surgery Allison Schmidt, graduate student, Cultural Studies James Windau, staff, Housing and Food Services Ken Yasuhara, research scientist, Center for Engineering Learning & Teaching Groups Facilities Services Maintenance and Construction's Shop 17 Insulators Facilities Services Heating, Ventilation and Air Condition (HVAC) controls shop (Shop 69) Facilities Services maintenance electricians International Forestry Student's Association, registered student organization Transportation Services' Maintenance Team UW Tower Operations Staff (Shop 25) In recognition of each award recipient, 10 native plants are planted in their honor. We would like to thank the UW Botanical Gardens and the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee (ESC) for making this possible. Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2016 nominees 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA