Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Calendar Make A Gift Home Undergraduate Schedule A Visit Apply Online Majors Advertising Journalism and Mass Communication Public Relations Minors Scholarships Advising Greenlee Language Primer (PIE) Short Course Intensives Greenlee Learning Communities Undergraduate Research Resources Labs & Equipment Tutorials Research Tools AP Stylebook Weekly Newsletter Student Awards Graduate About the Master’s Program 4+1 Graduate Program Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Directory Graduate Faculty Graduate Students Graduate Resources Graduate Handbook Graduate Newsletter Labs & Equipment Research Tools Student Work Theses Creative Components Research Research Research Topics & Faculty Research News Interdisciplinary Work SciComm@ISU Project Internships Internships Overview 499A Required Internship 499A Overview 499A Syllabus Packet Finding an Internship Internship Resources Jump-Start Internship Database Resources for Employers CyHire Internship Funding Jump-Start Internship & Networking Fair Dotdash Meredith Apprentice Program Dublin Internship Program Experience Student Blog Study Abroad A Semester in Urbino, Italy Storytelling in Western Ukraine Get Involved Clubs & Organizations Student Media Undergraduate Research HamiltonOne Stream Greenlee Ambassadors First Amendment First Amendment Overview First Amendment Days 2022 First Amendment Series Events First Amendment Committee Past Events Futures Forum Weekly Student Newsletter Alumni & Friends Graduation Glimpse Network Advisory Council Alumni Awards Summit About Why Greenlee Faculty & Staff Directory Teaching Topics Research Research Research Topics & Faculty Research News SciComm@ISU Project Interdisciplinary Work Undergraduate Research Greenlee Promise Diversity and Inclusion Diversity Plan Public Accountability News and Events News Releases Upcoming Events Good News from Greenlee In the News COVID-19 Updates Home COVID-19 Moving Forward Get the scoop on your 499A required internship Reach your career goals through Greenlee’s graduate program 1 2 Some add to the noise. You’ll cut through it. Create your adventure in advertising, journalism and mass communication or public relations at the Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication. #WhyGreenlee Announcing the 2022-2023 Dotdash Meredith apprentices from Iowa State University Ten Iowa State students have been selected to participate in the Dotdash Meredith Apprentice Program for the 2022-2023 academic year. The Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication’s partnership with Dotdash Meredith (formerly Meredith Corp.) places Iowa State students in yearlong apprenticeships at the nation’s largest digital and print publisher. Announcing the 2022 Greenlee School alumni award recipients Iowa State University’s Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication has named the 2022 recipients of two alumni awards. Ron Schara ('66 journalism) is the recipient of the 2022 Greenlee Professional Achievement Award, and Kelly Howard ('08 journalism and mass communication) is the recipient of the 2022 Greenlee Young Alumni Award. Greenlee senior Teagan Gara selected to serve as a White House Next-Gen Leader Teagan Gara, Greenlee senior in journalism and mass communication and political science, was selected as a 2022 Next-Gen Leader for the White House Historical Association. This inaugural group brings together young professionals from a wide variety of fields, all bound together by a passion for history, civics and education, for a year-long fellowship. Greenlee advertising students bring home gold, silver awards Congratulations to Greenlee advertising students who won American Advertising Federation (AAF) of Des Moines awards recently! Petra Owusu, Haley Williams, Lexi Sneller and Sarah Carney collectively won three gold and three silver awards at the Addy show. Several Des Moines agencies showed interest in their work and set up interviews with them as a result. Innovation award recognizes heroic advising during the pandemic Twenty-seven employees with student services or academic advising roles are recipients of Iowa State's Innovation and Exceptional Advising During COVID Award. The recognition, organized in the provost's office, honors employees who "went above and beyond in their academic advising from spring 2020 through fall 2021" in response to the COVID-19 world pandemic. Students collaborate on a Valentine's Day chocolate booth and PR promotion Students in PR 321 have partnered with the Cardinal and Gold student advertising agency to create an inclusive love Valentine’s Day promotion coined “Cynificant Other.” The promotion encourages students to abandon the typical Valentine’s Day ideals and focus on the wider spectrum of love experienced between everyone people care for. More News Upcoming Events Why Greenlee? At Greenlee, you’ll earn a superior education at one of the best communication schools in the country. You’ll enjoy a supportive and welcoming culture. You’ll also benefit from the latest media trends, methods and technology. Diverse, award-winning and independent student media, clubs and organizations More than $100,000 in annual scholarships, awards and financial aid awarded each year by the school to Greenlee majors A professional and rigorous 400-hour internship program Dedicated faculty, who are award-winning teachers, accomplished scholars and experienced industry professionals Distinguished alumni, including recipients of five Pulitzer Prizes and a Presidential Medal of Freedom One of the oldest and longest continually accredited programs in the country Experience Greenlee Apply Now Degree Programs Advertising Journalism and Mass Communication Public Relations Master’s Program Internships Adventures today lead to passions tomorrow. That’s why all Greenlee School majors are required to complete a 400-hour professional media internship for academic credit. Sure the standard is high. But you’re up to the challenge. Because opportunities outside the classroom now will refine your skills and prepare you for even more impactful work later. No ambition is too big or small. Our students have interned at community newspapers and national news organizations. Local stations and major networks. Boutique agencies and global firms. Special interest publications and national consumer brands. Local businesses and major corporations. Your adventure starts now. Learn about internships Download 499A syllabus Events No upcoming events found. More Events Tweets by isu_gsjc College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication Greenlee School of Journalism and Communication 613 Wallace Road 101 Hamilton Hall Ames, IA 50011-4010 greenlee@iastate.edu (515) 294-4342 phone (515) 294-5108 fax Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...