Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Sustainability evolves at the intersection between society and the environment. Much of scientific research is aligned along this same interface, so a more refined attention to sustainability illuminates our thinking about how we engage in research. We start toward this Target simply by understanding these parallels through a comprehensive sustainability research inventory. Our work on the sustainability definition in FY21 guides this next year of our goal to increase sustainability-oriented research. We will further this work through a comprehensive sustainability research inventory. We will also begin to expand our work beyond the walls of higher education, making our campuses and surrounding communities living laboratories that provide rich collaborations and shared positive outcomes. Target actions for 2022 Develop sustainability research catalog Expand campus as a living laboratory View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize AASHE STARS categories: EN 9 Professional Staff Development & Training EN 13 Community Service Target actions for 2022 Action: Develop sustainability research catalog In conjunction with the working sustainability definition developed in FY21, we will dedicate efforts to identifying the impact of academic research to our communities, faculty and our campuses. It will begin with development of a catalog to identify living lab sustainability-oriented research projects and opportunities across the UW. We will focus resourcing, funding and attention to nurture some of these seminal projects, with lessons learned and outcomes then broadly disseminated to support others down that path. Besides increasing transparency, inclusion and coordination among UW researchers, this will serve a second purpose as the baseline count of sustainability-oriented research projects; this is the count that will be doubled by 2025 according to the target. The catalogue will help to understand the University’s research activities and help develop faculty incentives that would align with this target. As a R1 public institution, we will also work on engagement with the academy to ensure there is broad support to engage our research faculty. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Continue to highlight existing platforms, tools, and funding resources that support interdisciplinary research projects across UW drawing upon prior work from the UW Sustainability research portal. Support Target II action to hire a .50 Academic Coordinator through benchmarking what this position description should include, writing the job description and providing a recommendation to the Provost office. Using the shared sustainability framework as a reference, build on existing UW systems and processes to coordinate centralized reporting that collects information across campuses and assess the degree to which sustainability (following a holistic and shared definition) is incorporated in existing research projects and funding initiatives. 4. Establish a baseline procedure to collect and share information about UW research impact in our communities. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Urban@UW Statuses and linkages Work with Campus Sustainability Fund, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Urban@UW, UW Tacoma, UW Bothell and UW Sustainability using STARS reporting data on sustainability-focused research to identify themes. Financing Funding for a .50 Academic Coordinator from an existing position or a new hire. This could be the position described in Target II. Metrics To establish a baseline metric the second year, we will develop a process for gathering input and assess how we are engaging across our campuses. Quantitative and qualitative data will assess the following measures: Representation of diversity, co-curricular groups and RSOs. Assessments of the outputs and progress the diverse groups were able to realize. Community-based research projects will be identified this year to establish a baseline number beginning with an assessment with Population Health, EarthLab and Urban@ UW. Action: Expand campus as a living laboratory Through the formal adoption of the UW-wide sustainability definition, develop a program to transform UW’s campuses into living laboratories for sustainability research. Integrating academic and research areas of interest with operational targets and sustainability actions will provide opportunities for all UW members to collaborate on innovative strategies to address some of the most urgent challenges at different scales. This action also entails expanding our work beyond the walls of higher education, across local, regional and global scales; viewing our campuses and the surrounding communities as living laboratories that provide rich opportunities for action oriented, community based participatory research and service learning to address the complexities of sustainability challenges in a responsive and equitable way. Through this action, UW will support more sustainable communities and students fluent in climate justice, sustainability, and resiliency. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Identify and promote opportunities in which UW researchers and students can create and participate in projects that engage UW Facilities and central administration units to transform the campuses, reduce the operations environmental footprint while alleviating burdens of our existing policies and procedures that negatively impact underrepresented groups on campus. Develop and promote existing tools, training, and internal funding for culturally responsible forms of research and engagement and appropriate interactions with non-UW members. Identify funding mechanisms to coordinate faculty focus groups that will provide incentives. This will serve to identify opportunities and barriers for increasing sustainability-related research. Seek opportunities for meaningful forms of engagement and research through equity and inclusion with local, regional, and global communities to address environmental challenges and causes. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, Campus Sustainability Fund, EarthLab, Urban@UW Statuses and linkages These could be overseen by the suggested Academic Coordinator position. Financing Additional financing needed in FY 2022. Possible sources: Use revolving funds from any savings in operations linked to the decarbonization program and create task forces specifically to apply for state, regional and national grant opportunities. Create a special sustainability endowment or green fund coming from donations in collaboration with UW Advancement. Identify and strengthen existing sources of funding for research (Campus Sustainability Fund, EarthLab’s Innovation Grants, Population Health Initiative pilot research grants, Urban@UW Spark Grants). Metrics To establish a baseline metric the second year, we will develop a process for gathering input from across our campuses and piloting collaboration projects between academic research and campus operations. Quantitative and qualitative data will assess the following: Number of living lab projects from Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. Representation of diverse co-curricular groups and RSOs from Seattle, Bothell, Tacoma campuses. Qualitative impact of pilot project(s) with campus operations for faculty. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Develop Sustainability Research Catalog In this first year, we will dedicate efforts to identifying the impact of academic research to our communities, faculty and our campuses. It will begin with development of a catalogue to identify living lab sustainability-oriented research projects and opportunities across the UW. Focused resourcing, funding and attention to nurture some of these seminal projects, with lessons learned and outcomes then broadly disseminated to support others down that path. Besides increasing transparency and coordination among UW researchers, this will serve a second purpose, as the baseline count of sustainability-oriented research projects; this is the count that will be doubled by 2025 according to the target. The catalogue will help to understand the University’s research activities and help develop faculty incentives that would align with this target. As an R1 public institution, we will also work on engagement with the academy to ensure there is broad level support to engage our research faculty. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Highlight existing platforms, tools, and funding resources that support interdisciplinary research projects across UW. Coordinate faculty focus groups to identify opportunities and barriers for increasing sustainability-related research. Using the shared sustainability framework as a reference, build on existing UW systems and processes to coordinate centralized reporting that collects information across campuses and assess the degree to which sustainability (following a holistic and shared definition) is incorporated in existing research projects and funding initiatives. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Faculty Statuses and linkages This is intricately tied to Target II. These could be overseen by the positions suggested for the UW-Wide Sustainability Definition Task Force and coordination with existing efforts at Population Health, EarthLab, Urban@UW, ChangE, and UW Tacoma and UW Bothell centers. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. Metrics The first year will develop a process for gathering input assessment of how we are engaging across our campuses. Quantitative and qualitative data will assess the following: Representation of faculty from Seattle, Bothell, Tacoma campuses. Representation of diversity, co-curricular groups and RSOs. Assessments of the outputs and progress the diverse groups were able to realize. This action enables additional actions that may affect STARS credit AC-9 Research & Scholarship where UW shows a point gap of 3.97. Action: Expand Campus as a Living Laboratory Transform UW’s campuses into living laboratories for sustainability research by integrating academic, and research areas of interest with operational targets and sustainability actions thereby providing opportunities for all UW members to collaborate on innovative strategies to address some of the most urgent challenges at different scales. This action entails expanding our work beyond the walls of academia, across local, regional and global scales; viewing our campuses and the surrounding communities as living laboratories that provide rich opportunities for action-oriented research, community-engaged scholarship, service learning, and inter-community collaborations to address the complexities of sustainability challenges in a responsive and equitable way. Through this action, UW will deliver more sustainable communities, students fluent in climate justice, sustainability, and resiliency. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Identify and promote opportunities in which UW researchers and students can create and participate in projects that engage UW Facilities and central administration units to transform the campuses and reduce the operations environmental footprint. Promote existing tools, trainings, and internal funding to promote culturally responsible forms of research and engagement and appropriate interactions with non-UW members. Seek opportunities for meaningful forms of engagement and research with local, regional, and global communities to address environmental challenges. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, Campus Sustainability Fund, EarthLab Statuses and linkages This is intricately tied to Target II. These could be overseen by the positions suggested for the UW-Wide Sustainability Definition Task Force and coordination with existing efforts at Population Health, EarthLab, Urban@UW, ChangE, and UW Tacoma and UW Bothell centers. Financing Additional financing needed in FY 2021. Possible sources: Use revolving funds from any savings in operations linked to the decarbonization program. Create a special endowment or fund coming from donations. Identify and strengthen existing sources of funding for research (EarthLab’s Innovation Grants, Population Health Initiative pilot research grants, Campus Sustainability Fund). Work with UW Advancement for identifying donor funding. Metrics The first year will develop a process for gathering input from across our campuses and piloting collaboration projects between academic research and campus operations. Quantitative and qualitative data will assess the following: Representation of faculty and staff from Seattle, Bothell, Tacoma campuses. Representation of diverse co-curricular groups and RSOs from Seattle, Bothell, Tacoma campuses. Qualitative impact of pilot project(s) with campus operations for faculty research. UW has already earned the maximum points available in the relevant STARS credits AC-8 Campus as a Living Laboratory and EN-10 Community Partnerships. This Action can gain points in STARS credits AC-9 Research & Scholarship where UW shows a point gap of 3.97 and EN-13 Community Service where UW shows a point gap of 3.77. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA