Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Procurement comprises a significant portion of UW’s spending. With its purchasing decisions UW can endorse suppliers who are practicing sustainability; we aspire to have 100% of them aligned with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We are quickly working to incorporate students’ voices in purchasing decisions. As we work with campus units and departments to develop equitable purchasing targets, we will follow the state’s goals for minority-, women- and veteran-owned businesses under the Results Washington strategic framework. Target actions for 2022 Campus awareness related to supplier diversity Implement a Supplier Code of Conduct View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Campus awareness related to supplier diversity Historically, procurement has been perceived solely as a professional function, unrelated in any direct way to the university’s students. In recent years the power for purchasing decisions to express institutional values has become much more widely acknowledged. This plan strives to build a cohesive community stewarding social equity and physical environments; we have the opportunity to further promote social responsibility in our purchasing, and to engage our communities in this effort. We will expand student presence in the UW Procurement Services office, with up to three students fulfilling intern, liaison or coordinator positions. This offers the dual win of, on the one hand, offering a very valuable opportunity to increase real-world learning for students; and on the other hand providing a well-structured pathway for students to influence purchasing choices. Through the Business Diversity and Equity Program, we will leverage the work of the Supplier Diversity RSO and partner for new opportunities to strengthen the visibility of local, minority, women-owned and tribal-owned businesses. Additionally, Procurement Services will identify “capstone” or “keystone” projects suitable for student teams, possibly in partnership with Foster School of Business Consulting and Business Development group, Program on the Environment, or the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. Through the work of the Business Diversity & Equity program managed by UW Facilities, we will include student internships that are working on inclusion planning and sustainable purchasing. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Coordinate outreach visits to campus departments to discuss supplier diversity and sustainability. Review department purchasing history prior to the outreach. In collaboration with procurement staff, share information about available contracts with minority-, women- and veteran-owned small businesses. Partner with the Foster Consulting and Business Development Center. Develop information sessions and tools to connect departments with minority-, women- and veteran-owned small businesses. Responsible party Procurement Services Statuses and linkages Procurement Services and the Business Diversity & Equity programs have student interns in place, and are well under way toward identifying additional student projects. Financing Funding for student positions in UW Procurement Services has been approved by UW Finance. Business Diversity & Equity (BDE) within UW Facilities funds student internships through a UW Endowment for diversity outcomes. Metrics Goal of two department visits per month. Baseline is based on the number of departments subscribing to the Procurement Service Campus Newsletter as of July 1, 2021. Track number of departmental visits as a percentage of subscribers. Report and publish diversity spend across the enterprise, including second-tier spend with large companies holding University contracts. Action: Implement a Supplier Code of Conduct The global recognition of the importance of purchasing means that the world of equitable purchasing standards is expanding. UW aspires to have 100% of suppliers agreeing to our Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, our state government has offered a strategic framework, Results Washington, that includes a goal to increase state agency and educational institution utilization of certified small and diverse businesses in contracts and procurement to the following percentages: Minority-owned businesses: 10 percent Women-owned businesses: 6 percent Veteran-owned businesses: 5 percent UW Procurement Services will align its diversity contracting spend goals both with Results Washington and with diverse business spending goals for federal contracts. Supporting language will be incorporated in solicitation templates and forms. Starting in FY19, Business Diversity & Equity began focusing on analyzing procurement and spend data to determine current levels and future goals. In FY2022 we will map a pathway to those goals, and begin laying out the iterative process for measuring progress. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Report the number of contract suppliers who have agreed to the University Supplier Code of Conduct. Create a communication plan for internal and external communications. Create a means to collect information. Publish the information. Responsible party Procurement Services and UW Facilities Finance and Administration Business Diversity & Equity Statuses and linkages Supplier Code of Conduct is published on Procurement Services website and included in many, but not all University contracts. Reports have been obtained from major contract suppliers; reporting format for 2nd tier diversity spend is being finalized. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2022. Metrics 100% of contract suppliers agree to the Code. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Increase Student Engagement with Procurement Services Historically, procurement has been perceived solely as a professional function, unrelated in any direct way to the university’s students. In recent years the power for purchasing decisions to express institutional values has become much more widely acknowledged. This plan strives to build a cohesive community stewarding social equity and physical environments; we have the opportunity to further promote social responsibility in our purchasing, and to engage our communities in this effort. We will expand student presence in the UW Procurement Services office, with up to three students fulfilling intern, liaison or coordinator positions. This offers the dual win of on the one hand offering a very valuable opportunity to increase real-world learning for students; and on the other hand providing a well-structured pathway for students to influence purchasing choices. Through the Business Diversity and Equity Program, we will leverage the work of the Supplier Diversity RSO and partner for new opportunities to strengthen the visibility of local, minority, women-owned and tribal-owned businesses. Additionally, Procurement Services will identify “capstone” or “keystone” projects suitable for student teams, possibly in partnership with Foster School of Business Consulting and Business Development group, Program on the Environment, or the Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship. Through the work of the Business Diversity & Equity program managed by UW Facilities, we will include student internships that are working on inclusion planning and sustainable purchasing. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Identify discrete projects to provide opportunities for student engagement, focusing on sustainability products and projects and supplier diversity reporting and guidance. Create two additional student positions within Procurement Services. Develop and test a system for receiving student concerns regarding purchasing values or ethics. Responsible party Procurement Services Statuses and linkages Procurement Services and the Business Diversity & Equity programs have student interns in place, and is well under way toward identifying additional student projects. Financing Funding for student positions in UW Procurement Services has been approved by UW Finance. Business Diversity & Equity (BDE) within UW Facilities funds student internships through a UW Endowment for diversity outcomes. Metrics Student awareness of UW purchasing as measured by RSO engagement surveys; fall and spring quarter comparison. Student participation and awareness in Supplier Diversity RSO events; annual comparison. This action does not impact a STARS credit score directly. Action: Align Purchasing with Business Diversity and Equity Targets The global recognition of the importance of purchasing, means that the world of equitable purchasing standards is expanding. UW aspires to have 100% of suppliers agreeing to our Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, our state government has offered a strategic framework, Results Washington, that includes a goal to increase state agency and educational institution utilization of certified small and diverse businesses in contracts and procurement to the following percentages: Minority-owned businesses: 10 percent Women-owned businesses: 6 percent Veteran-owned businesses: 5 percent UW Procurement Services will align its diversity contracting spend goals both with Results Washington and with diverse business spending goals for federal contracts. Supporting language will be incorporated in solicitation templates and forms. Started in FY19, Business Diversity & Equity began focusing on analyzing procurement and spend data to determine current levels and future goals. In FY2021 we will map a pathway to those goals, and begin laying out the iterative process for measuring progress. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Report the number of contract suppliers who have agreed to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Continue to report diversity spend across the enterprise. Publish report of 2nd tier diversity spend by large companies holding University contracts. Responsible party UWF Finance & Administration, Business Diversity & Equity Statuses and linkages Supplier Code of Conduct is published on Procurement Services website and included in many, but not all University contracts. Reports have been obtained from major contract suppliers; reporting format for 2nd tier diversity spend is being finalized. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. AASHE STARS Scoring Percentage of suppliers who have agreed to Supplier Code of Conduct. Percentage of spend from diverse businesses relative to total spend. This action addresses AASHE STARS 2.2 credit OP-11 Sustainable Procurement, in which UW has a points gap of 0.50. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA