Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Husky Green Awards 2013 Close Menu Home 2013 Winners 2013 Nominees In 2013, the seven Husky Green Award recipients below were recognized at the UW Earth Day celebration. Seventeen nominees were nominated by their peers, including thirteen individuals and four groups. Brenda Nissley Harborview Medical Center Brenda is a committee member of the Harborview Medical Center’s Environmental Committee. Brenda’s role has been instrumental in HMC receiving recognition from Practice Greenhealth, the nation's leading membership and networking organization for healthcare agencies committed to sustainable, environmentally preferable practices. Currently, Brenda is working on rolling out an institution-wide program for managing pharmaceutical waste. Duncan Clauson Graduate Student, Evans School of Public Affairs Duncan graduated from the Evans School and served on the Campus Sustainability Fund Committee for two years, he acted as Chair of the Committee in his second year. Duncan worked on the Smart Grid Residence Hall project rollout and recently helped lead the UW-Solar project. Duncan's commitment to sustainability was evident in his tireless commitment, passion and engagement with his fellow students and interaction with faculty and staff. Facilities Construction Shop 54 Facilities Services, Facilities Construction Shop 54 Facilities Construction Shop 54 was responsible for rescuing and reusing wood from a tree that was cut down due to elm tree disease. The wood from the tree was later repurposed to create a conference table for the Facilities training center. The transformation from tree to table required dedication, creativity and collaboration between Facilities crews, outside vendors and architects. Left to right: Facilities Maintenance and Construction Director Damon Fetters, Sheet Metal Mechanic Brad Mcouat (Shop 56), Carpenter Andy Schlais, Carpenter Joe Green, Carpenter Chris Dowling, Shop 54 Carpentry Lead Ed McKinley, Carpenter Carmine Ruggiero, Painter Tom Morse, Sheet Metal Mechanic Kelly Durand (Shop 56), Arborist Sara Shores (Shop 10), Maintenance Mechanic Dave Walters Gould Hall Green Wall Team College of Built Environment The Gould Green Wall Team is led by students from the Green Futures Lab, faculty and staff designed and installed the campus’ first-ever “green wall”, an edible green screen and water harvesting demonstration project. The project will provide educational opportunities for students and staff about the building and local air temperature. Husky Green Legacy Award: U-PASS Advisory Board ASUW/GPSS/Transportation Services/Student Activities Office The U-PASS Advisory Board is the first-ever to receive the Husky Green Legacy Award. The board is composed of nine student representatives - three from GPSS, six from ASUW - two non-voting Advisers, and one non-voting student liaison. Student leaders established the Universal U-PASS in 2011; the Advisory Board is leading students in their dedication to choosing greener options for commuting to campus. Sunni Wissmer Undergraduate Student, College of Built Environment Sunni is a junior in the Community, Environment and Planning Program, an active student member, and serves on both the Environmental Stewardship Committee and Campus Sustainability Fund Committee. Sunni has been integral to many project implementations such as the Husky Sustainable Storms and supporting storm water education for residence hall students. Sunni served as an ambassador for the UW chapter of Engineers Without Boarders and is currently working with UW EWB to design and build improved fish hatchery for a small, impoverished community in Guatemala. Victoria Rice Bean, RN UWMC, Surgical Department, Operating Room Nurse Victoria is surgical nurse from UWMC’s operating room. Victoria is responsible for spearheading the hospitals recycling program and worked tirelessly with UW Recycling to increase the hospital’s recycling rate. Since launching the recycling program in UWMC, more than 50% of what used to go in landfill during a surgical case is now recycled, and red biohazard bag use has decreased by 90%. Victoria has been a staff nurse for the surgical department for 12 years. She implemented this program on her own time. In recognition of each award recipient, 10 native plants are planted in their honor. We would like to thank the UW Botanical Gardens and the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee (ESC) for making this possible. Home 2013 Winners 2013 Nominees Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA