Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability A clear, common definition of sustainability is necessary for effective communication and coordination around learning and action across campus. This Target invokes a campus-wide definition and standardized reporting of existing sustainability courses. To successfully facilitate this goal and others, an Academic Sustainability Manager will be hired. The 2022 Action Plan will also lay foundations for the development of a UW-wide sustainability course or other general requirement, and begin work toward a common, minimum sustainability learning outcome by 2025. Target actions for 2022 Finalize and publish the university-wide definition of sustainability Develop standardized reporting of academic content Identify minimum learning outcomes Determine feasibility of a student sustainability hub View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize AASHE STARS categories: AC 1 Academic Courses AC 2 Learning Outcomes Target actions for 2022 Action: Finalize and publish the university-wide definition of sustainability In FY 2021 we sought input from faculty, staff and students at all three UW campuses to create a definition of sustainability that would be used as a tool for engagement, a tool for deepening our individual understanding, a tool for developing common understanding, a tool for measuring progress toward sustainability goals and a tool for identifying research and coursework that is “sustainability-related.” The definition and information about the process we used to develop it can be found here. Steps we will take in FY 2022 We will present the final definition to the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee, seek endorsement from the Faculty Senate, the Board of Deans and Chancellors, the Provost and the Board of Regents and determine where to formally post the definition. We will work with the Target I workgroup to generate engagement with the definition (e.g. release a challenge to all courses to explore what would need to change in order to live up to the definition, provide the definition to the heads/deans of departments/schools across all campuses and ask them to share and bring back any feedback.) We will work with other target workgroups to explicitly align their work with the definition. (Timeframe of Fall quarter 2021) We will create a position description for a .50 or 1.0 FTE Sustainability Academic Coordinator manager position to help in the advancement and implementation of academic and research goals contained in this plan. In this process, we will explore whether this person should serve all three campuses or whether we should have separate positions at each campus. (Timeframe of December 2021) Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Urban@UW, Faculty Statuses and linkages Work with Population Health Initiative and UW Sustainability STARS reporting data on sustainability-focused courses to identify themes. Review and consider findings from prior work: Sustainability in the Curriculum Committee (2012-2015) Sustainability Across the Curriculum report (2015) Financing Funds for the Sustainability Academic Coordinator position (.5 or 1.0 FTE) are needed. Metrics Getting the definition approved and posted by fall. Having conversations with the action owners about the implications for the definition for their action (by end of autumn quarter). Have a plan for broader engagement with the definition by the end of autumn quarter. Action: Develop standardized reporting of academic content Catalogue and identify all existing sustainability-oriented courses through the design of a standardized reporting system that incorporates a shared sustainability framework. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Using the shared sustainability framework as a reference, build a centralized reporting platform to collect information across campuses and assess the degree to which sustainability is incorporated in existing courses. Developing and implementing common metrics for tracking progress towards the attainment of this goal set forth in this plan are essential to realizing the goals of tri-campus coordination and accountability. To ensure the proper entry of data, design a set of instructions on how to use the reporting system that will be displayed online. Create communication material that will be offered to administrators, personnel in charge of academic affairs and students in each College and School across the UW. It may also be available to students. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Urban@UW, Faculty Statuses and linkages This will be overseen by the UW Sustainability Project Manager who coordinates STARS reporting in partnership with Population Health and cataloging of academic research. Tied to Target I – Inventory and Expand Community Engagement. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2022. Metrics Number of new courses added, measured against 2021 STARS academic course data. Yes/No completion of inventory Action: Identify minimum learning outcomes Initiate a consultative process to identify core sustainability skills and competencies for all UW students as an initial step to develop a university-wide set of learning outcomes that can incorporated in existing and new courses, regardless the discipline or concentration, in order to address a full range of ecological, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. This target could open the space to considering a university-wide sustainability credit in the future. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Identify inclusive sustainability academic objectives that can be incorporated in existing and new courses. Benchmark from ASU and other universities that have undertaken similar efforts to integrate sustainability core competencies in curriculum. Facilitate professional development opportunities for faculty and other instructors to foster the creation of innovative and interdisciplinary pedagogical strategies around inclusive sustainability. Create a digital space where instructors can find tools and resources to better incorporate inclusive sustainability academic objectives in their courses. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Urban@UW, Faculty Statuses and linkages This is tied to the UW-Wide Sustainability Definition. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2022. Metrics We will develop baseline data to determine where inclusive sustainability objectives can be incorporated and how those objectives will impact course outcomes. Action: Determine feasibility of a student sustainability hub Determine the feasibility for a student-facing Sustainability Hub on the Seattle Campus; including the need, use cases, potential location, funding and staffing. The goal is to develop a tricampus model for ongoing student sustainability engagement and research through the UW-wide Sustainability Framework, using the Campus as a Living Lab for implementation of the Sustainability Plan. The feasibility study will be managed by UW Sustainability in collaboration with the Campus Sustainability Fund, and potential funding partnerships with the Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, the College of the Environment, the College of Built Environments, ASUW, GPSS and Student Services. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Establish a project team to be sponsored by UW Sustainability that includes the Sustainability Action Plan Project Coordinator, CSF Program Manager, UW Sustainability DEI Coordinator and students from ASUW, GPSS, Student Life, and RSOs and the University Environmental Stewardship Committee. Work with campus stakeholders to determine the scope, opportunities, and barriers through interviews, research into existing UW Centers/Initiatives and case studies of other universities. Review and present to ASUW, GPSS, Student Life and administrative stakeholders. Publish a report which details the need for the Student Sustainability Hub, use cases, potential locations, funding model, and partnerships with other departments or programs. Responsible party Campus Sustainability Fund Statuses and linkages This Action is closely linked with other UW Sustainability Plan Actions: One UW Wide Sustainability Framework by 2022; Double Student, Staff and Faculty Sustainability Impressions by 2024; Double Sustainability Research Projects by 2025. These could be coordinated with the Sustainability Academic Coordinator position suggested in Target II - Finalize and publish the university-wide definition of sustainability. Financing For FY21, UW Sustainability hired a .50 FTE graduate student Project Coordinator dedicated to the implementation of the Sustainability Action Plan and the steps associated with this and other actions of the plan. The funding for this position should be maintained. For FY22, UW Sustainability and the Campus Sustainability Fund hired a .50 FTE graduate student Program Operations and DEI Coordinator position. This position will be supporting the work of this action by facilitating inclusive and diverse outreach and student engagement. Future financing for implementation and staffing of the Student Sustainability Hub could come from multiple sources including a resource pooling of departments/units such as Campus Sustainability Fund, Student Life, Provost Office (for academics), Population Health Initiative, Earthlab, and student government bodies GPSS and ASUW. A student fee could also be a potential funding option. Metrics The second year of this action will focus on gathering data associated with the feasibility of establishing a Student Sustainability Hub, and we will therefore achieve the following: Cataloging student-centered services from all campuses that are related to sustainability. Perform an analysis of the potential impacts and outcomes of a Sustainability Hub. Benchmark with peer institutions and perform a gap analysis. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Adopt a University-wide Definition of Sustainability Identify and agree to a shared vision and definition of sustainability, recognizing the importance of integrating economic, social, cultural, and ecological domains as a mean to address climate change and associated social injustices within local, regional, and global contexts. This action will require engagement with UW community members across all three campuses to form a working group that develops a sustainability definition and framework. A clear framework around sustainability is necessary for effective communication and coordination in the design of courses and research opportunities across campuses. Steps we will take in FY 2021 UW community members will participate in a multi-phased engagement process facilitated by UW Sustainability staff in partnership with Population Health Initiative staff to create an inclusive vision and definition of sustainability. Through this work, a task force group will be identified composed of interested members of the different colleges, schools, and units across the three campuses, who will work on socializing and creating this framework. After the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee approves this shared framework, it will be published together with a set of tools and resources to guide its implementation. Seek funding for a .50 or 1.0 FTE Sustainability Academic Coordinator manager position to help in the advancement and implementation of academic and research goals contained in this plan. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, faculty Statuses and linkages Work with Population Health Initiative and UW Sustainability STARS reporting data on sustainability-focused courses to identify themes. Review and consider findings from prior work: Sustainability in the Curriculum Committee Committee report Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. Metrics The first year will develop a process for gathering input to assess how we are engaging across our campuses. Quantitative and qualitative data will assess the potential impacts of the following: Representation of faculty from Seattle, Bothell, Tacoma campuses. Representation of diversity, co-curricular groups and RSOs. Representation of staff input. This action enables changes that can affect STARS credit AC-2 Learning Outcomes where UW shows a point gap of 5.86. Action: Develop Standardized Reporting of Academic Content Catalogue and identify all existing sustainability-oriented courses through the design of a standardized reporting system that incorporates a shared sustainability framework. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Using the shared sustainability framework as a reference, build a centralized reporting platform to collect information across campuses and assess the degree to which sustainability is incorporated in existing courses. Developing and implementing common metrics for tracking progress towards the attainment of this goal set forth in this plan are essential to realizing the goals of tri-campus coordination and accountability. To ensure the proper entry of data, design a set of instructions on how to use the reporting system that will be displayed online. Create communication material that will be offered to administrators, personnel in charge of academic affairs and students in each College and School across the campuses. It may also be available to students. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Faculty Statuses and linkages This will be overseen by the UW Sustainability Project Manager who coordinates STARS reporting in partnership with Population Health and cataloging of academic research. Tied to Target I – Expand Professional Development Opportunities for Faculty and Staff. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. Metrics This Action enables changes that can affect STARS credit AC-1 Academic Courses where UW shows a point gap of 1.85. Number of new courses added / 2018 STARS data for academic courses. Yes/No completion of inventory. Action: Identify Minimum Learning Outcomes Initiate a consultative process to identify core sustainability skills and competencies for all UW students as an initial step to develop a university-wide set of learning outcomes that can incorporated in existing and new courses, regardless the discipline or concentration, in order to address a full range of ecological, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. This target could open the space to considering a university- wide sustainability credit in the future. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Identify inclusive sustainability academic objectives that can be incorporated in existing and new courses. Benchmark from ASU and other universities that have undertaken similar efforts to integrate sustainability core competencies in curriculum. Facilitate professional development opportunities for faculty and other instructors to foster the creation of innovative and interdisciplinary pedagogical strategies around inclusive sustainability. Create a digital space where instructors can find tools and resources to better incorporate inclusive sustainability academic objectives in their courses. Responsible party UW Sustainability, Population Health Initiative, EarthLab, Faculty Statuses and linkages This is tied to the UW-Wide Sustainability Definition. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. Metrics The first year we will develop baseline data to determine where inclusive sustainability objectives can be incorporated and how those objectives will impact course outcomes. This action can gain points in STARS credit AC-2 Learning Outcomes where UW shows a point gap of 5.86. Action: Determine Feasibility of a Student Sustainability Hub Determine the feasibility of establishing a Student Sustainability Hub; including the need, use cases, funding, potential locations and staffing. The goal is to develop a tri- campus model for ongoing student engagement through the UW-Wide Sustainability Framework and implementation of the Sustainability Plan. The Hub will focus on student engagement, diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) and interdisciplinary research using the campus, community and region as a living lab; from the undergraduate to the post-doctoral levels. The feasibility study will be managed by the UW Sustainability office in collaboration with the Campus Sustainability Fund, the College of the Environment, the College of Built Environments, the Population Health Initiative, ASUW, GPSS and student RSOs. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Establish a project team to be sponsored by the UW Sustainability Office that includes the Student Outreach Coordinator for SAP, CSF Program Manager, and students from ASUW, GPSS, Student Life, and RSOs. Work with campus stakeholders to determine the scope, opportunities, and barriers through interviews, research into existing UW Centers/Initiatives and case studies of other universities. Review and present to ASUW, GPSS, Student Life and administrative stakeholders. Publish a final feasibility study which details the need for the Student Sustainability Hub, use cases, funding model, partnerships with other departments, potential locations and staffing to begin in FY22 or FY23. Responsible party Campus Sustainability Fund Statuses and linkages These could be coordinated with the positions suggested for the UW-Wide Sustainability Definition Task Force. The UW Sustainability Office, Campus Sustainability Fund, ASUW, GPSS and student RSOs have begun to explore this idea though current limitations are space/location and on-going funding resources. This Action is closely linked with other UW Sustainability Plan Actions: One UW Wide Sustainability Framework by 2022; Double Student, Staff and Faculty Sustainability Impressions by 2024; Double Sustainability Research Projects by 2025. Financing For FY21, UW Sustainability office hired a .50 FTE graduate student Student Outreach Coordinator dedicated to student engagement for the Sustainability Plan. This position will continue towards this Action. Future financing for implementation and staffing of the Student Sustainability Hub could come from multiple sources including a resource pooling of departments/units including Campus Sustainability Fund, Student Life, Central Provost Office (for academics), and student government bodies GPSS and ASUW. A student fee could also be a potential funding option. Metrics The first year is dedicated to determining the feasibility of establishing a Student Sustainability Hub, and we will therefore achieve the following: Mapping student-centered services and support from all campuses that are related to sustainability. Perform a benefit cost analysis of the potential impacts and outcomes of a Sustainability Hub. Benchmark with peer institutions and gap analysis. Student efforts, through the Campus Sustainability Fund mechanism, have historically worked to advance many of UW STARS targets and actions listed in this plan: Local Food; Divert compostable waste from recycle, landfill; Solar Photovoltaic Expansion. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA