Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Laboratory Certification Green Laboratory Certification Close Menu Home Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Application Certified Laboratories Resources Green Lab Certification paused In light of COVID-19, UW Sustainability is putting a momentary pause on certifying offices and labs. We hope to bring back our certification process when UW is back to full in-person operations. We think you for your commitment to sustainability, especially in times such as these. What is the Green Laboratory Certification program? Green Laboratory Certification at the University of Washington seeks to: Help labs gauge how sustainably they are currently operating Show labs specific ways they can operate more sustainably Recognize labs for the good work they are already doing Members of any UW lab from any department can certify their lab. Labs may belong to UW Seattle, UW Tacoma, or UW Bothell, or be an off-campus UW lab.To apply for certification, lab members simply fill out the online application (this typically takes 20-25 mins). This short initial questionnaire allows them to see what steps they are already taking to operate sustainably and where they can improve. It addresses workplace practices in action areas such as energy use, chemical use, work-related travel, and more. Why get Green Lab Certified? Laboratories are one of the primary waste generators at universities around the world. Using roughly 4 times more energy than office spaces of the same size, laboratories have an enormous impact on a university's energy use. With the University of Washington receiving the most grant money of any public institution in the United States - and harboring over 4,500 laboratories on campus alone - it is time for us to lead the way in implementing sustainable laboratory practices. UW's Climate Action Plan In addition, UW's Climate Action Plan calls for the establishment of a department-level reporting tool (Strategy 2.3.1) and for the availability of general guidelines for UW faculty, staff and students (Strategy 7.4.2), both of which the Green Laboratory Certification Program supports. Join the over 100 labs already working to operate more sustainably! APPLY NOW! How does applying for certification work? Levels of Certification 55-69% 70-84% 85%+ Based on their responses to the initial questionnaire, labs will earn a certification score. The questionnaire calculates scores as a percentage, dividing the number of points a lab has achieved by the number of points the lab is capable of achieving. The questionnaire will not deduct points for failing to close a fume hood sash, for example, if the lab does not have a fume hood. Instead, the questionnaire will adjust the total number of points possible for the lab to achieve. Labs that earn a score equal to or greater than 55% will receive a certification: Bronze for a score of 55-69%, Silver for 70-84%, and Gold for 85%+. Maintaining Certification To remain in the Green Lab Program, offices should re-certify every year on the anniversary of their certification. Simply fill out a recertification application here. Learn More To learn more about the Green Lab Certification program, as well as resources and sustainable practices your lab can use, check out a past issue of the Green Labs Newsletter or join the Green Labs mailing list! SUBSCRIBE TO MAILING LIST NEWSLETTER ARCHIVE How was the program developed? The Green Laboratory Program was initiated by UW Sustainability in an effort to minimize the environmental impact of laboratories at the University of Washington. The Green Laboratory Certification Committee formed in Fall 2012 to develop the certification criteria and create resources to assist laboratories in their green efforts. The committee was led by UW Sustainability's Certification Coordinator and was comprised of members with varied expertise in laboratory operations, environmental health and safety, recycling, purchasing, and supplies. UW Sustainability also worked with the Program on the Environment to offer ENVIR 480, a hands-on course focused on green laboratories. The student projects for the class - which included a shopping list of environmentally-friendly laboratory products, a newsletter, a logo and more - were later integrated into the certification program. The program was officially launched in Spring 2013 to help the university achieve its conservation goals as outlined in the Climate Action Plan. Home Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Application Certified Laboratories Resources Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA