Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media What can I do? Donate Alumni support Alumni support Close Menu Home Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action UW Alumni for Climate Action Pledge your support to help the UW become climate neutral while also saving the university money through a Green Revolving Fund. What's this about? A group of UW alumni wants to accelerate the pace of UW's carbon-neutral goal, currently set for 2050 by Washington state legislation. But in order to reach the goal sooner, it will take money. UW has plans to install solar panels and retrofit aging buildings to reduce its carbon footprint while actually saving money in energy costs. But these projects require upfront dollars. This is why the alumni group needs your help to establish a green revolving fund (GRF) at UW. A GRF provides capital for these projects and yields massive energy and cost savings. Cost savings are reinvested in the fund, creating a virtuous cycle of new projects. Put another way, your investment not only benefits UW now, but continues giving to UW, forever. Pledge to give The alumni group isn't asking for money right now – just a pledge to give once the fund is established. They have partnered with UW Facilities staff and UW Sustainability to begin the process of creating a GRF at UW. This is a long road that requires approval from the provost, so seeing support from students and alumni goes a long way in making sure this very important effort gets prioritized! How it works Your donation is added to the Green Revolving Fund, which is used to pay for projects at the UW which have been vetted to ensure they will reduce energy and pay for themselves in the long run. Each project will be monitored to ensure it is fulfilling the promise of reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. The savings from reduced utility bills - more than the original investment - will be returned to the fund, growing the pool of money for future projects. Each year, a report will be produced describing the work funded and its impact. What is a Green Revolving Fund (GRF)? The concept of a GRF isn’t exactly intuitive. Here’s a quick explainer on how it works: Initial projects The first phase of work would be focused on conservation, with 17 projects identified totaling $3.2 million in expense. These projects are estimated to save $1million a year in utility costs once implemented, and will return about $13 million over the expected life of the projects, all of which is expected to return to the GRF and fund additional projects. Due to the efficiencies realized by these projects, UW will emit about 6,000 fewer metric tons of CO2-equivalents (MtCO2e) each year, equal to approximately 3.5% of UW’s 2020 MtCO2e emissions. Over the life of these projects, close to 80,000 fewer tons of MtCO2e will be emitted due to these projects, the equivalent of planting nearly half a million trees! Project examples: Suzzalo Library Building Updates: 208 tons of CO2 avoided annually, 11.3x ROI Solar Panels on Allen Library: 111 tons CO2 avoided annually The Organizers UW alumni Bharath Kumandan and Sam Gooch are working with UW administration and faculty to set up, seed and operate a Green Revolving Fund (GRF) at the University of Washington. This fund will be used to finance projects throughout the UW Seattle Campus that have been identified by UW Facilities and select UW faculty as having the following characteristics: Meaningful return on investment / short repayment term Significant reduction of UW greenhouse gas emissions Material improvement of operational efficiency For more information, reach out to bkumandan@gmail.com or samuel.gooch@gmail.com. Pledge to give Home Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA