Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation | News Opportunities Center for Green Chemistry & Green Engineering at Yale About Principles of Green Chemistry Principles of Green Engineering History of Green Chemistry People Director, Paul T. Anastas Deputy Director, Julie Zimmerman Senior Staff Research Staff Students Past Center Members Research Overview of Green Chemistry and Green Engineering Materials Energy Water Systems Publications Partners Partners at Yale Partners Beyond Yale Organizational Partners Outreach & Policy Education High School Professional Yale Courses Undergraduate & Graduate The Periodic Table of the Elements of Green and Sustainable Chemistry Professors Paul Anastas and Julie Zimmerman recently published their new perspective article “... Read More Technology Compendium and Guidance Document Now Available The Yale-UNIDO Technology Compendium and Guidance Document are now available! You can check out... Read More Download FREE Book - Periodic Table of the Elements of Green and Sustainable Chemistry Limited offer: Download a free version of the book here Read More ‘Father of Green Chemistry’ Paul Anastas Wins the 2021 Volvo Environment Prize Paul Anastas, a Yale professor, and pioneer in developing non-hazardous chemicals, wins the 2021... Read More What We Do What We Do The Center for Green Chemistry and Green Engineering at Yale is committed to improving the world today and for future generations through outstanding research and scholarship, education, and practice by providing practical, innovative solutions to sustainability challenges while simultaneously meeting social, economic, and environmental goals. Green Chemistry can be defined as the “design of chemical products and processes that reduce or eliminate the use and generation of hazardous substances”. (P.T. Anastas and J. C. Warner. Green Chemistry: Theory and Practice, 1998.) A Message from the Director Research Education Partners Outreach & Policy News FREE BOOK: The Periodic Table of the Elements of Green and Sustainable Chemistry New Review Article: Greener Routes to Biomass Waste Valorization Review paper on Green Chemistry progress over the last two decades published in Green Chemistry journal Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 370 Prospect Street | New Haven, CT 06511 | Phone: 203-436-4944 greenchemistry@yale.edu Copyright © 2017 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr