Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Student Experience Green Seed Fund Green Seed Fund Grants Green Seed Fund Grants Close Menu Home Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund Through Green Seed Fund grants, the UW seeks to engage faculty, students, and staff in opportunities that advance sustainable research while contributing to campus sustainability goals. Successful proposals will use the campus as a living, learning laboratory and help the UW find solutions to the most pressing environmental issues. For highlights of past research teams, see the Green Seed Fund Factsheet. The UW’s sustainability goals include but are not limited to: Reducing greenhouse gas emissions (especially as outlined in Section 3 of the UW’s Climate Action Plan) Transitioning to renewable energy Reducing professional travel Eliminating non-recoverable waste The Green Seed Fund is not currently accepting proposals. We do not currently have a date when proposals will re-open. Thank you for your understanding. Eligibility We encourage proposals that work cooperatively in presenting integrated solutions. Grants are open to UW Seattle, UW Bothell, UW Tacoma, UW Medical Center, and Harborview. Research teams are required to include at minimum: One UW student One UW faculty member One UW staff member Each individual should play an active role. Applicants will also be required to provide letters of support from any campus unit (Facilities, Office of Planning and Budgeting, etc.) potentially impacted by the proposed scope. If multiple campus units are affected, please submit multiple letters of support. Letters will be validated after submission. Applicants should also follow their unit or department’s usual internal process for submitting grant proposals, including securing Dean’s office approvals. Examples of approval letters: Example 1, Example 2 Length of Research Project Projects should be approximately one year in duration (e.g. February 2015 to February 2016) and should not exceed two years. If a project extends beyond one year, the team will be required to submit interim or draft recommendations at the end of each calendar year and request an extension (see Reporting Requirements below). Funding Availability Approximately $250,000 of funding is available for Fiscal Year 2015-2016. The average award will be $25,000-75,000. Funds will be transferred to research accounts in February, 2016. Funds can be used to support research, education, and engagement expenses such as: Graduate and undergraduate student support Equipment, supplies and participant payments Travel expenses associated with conducting the research or educational project Travel expenses incurred to report research findings at a conference Workshops and symposia on sustainability science and/or practice Community meetings to convene stakeholders or disseminate findings Proposal Format Proposals should include the following sections or components. Please consult the Detailed Proposal Requirements for additional information on these proposal elements. Abstract Scope, Approach and Methodology Relevance to UW Sustainability Goals Deliverables/Anticipated Outcomes Detailed and Itemized Budget External Funding Sources Timeline Project/Research Team Staffing Investigator/Collaborators Contact Information Proposals will only be accepted through an online submittal process. Candidates will be able to save proposals in process, and return to them at their convenience. The link to the proposal submission page will be live after 12pm on October 22nd, 2015. Review Criteria The following elements will be the primary considerations in evaluating all submitted proposals and in the selection of projects: Completion of all required proposal components in the correct format. (5 pts) The extent to which the project/research teams proposed solution has the potential to help the University of Washington achieve its sustainability goals. The review committee will take direction from the Environmental Stewardship Committee in determining priority sustainability focuses for the UW in a given year(s) and award Green Seed Fund Grants with this hierarchy in mind. (50 pts) Quality and relevance of the interaction with required campus operations department for the completion of the project. (30 pts) An assessment of the project team’s ability to deliver the indicated service in accordance with the specifications set out in the RFP. (15 pts) Award Notification All submitters will be notified of the status of their proposal by mid-January 2016. Awards will be transferred to the lead investigator's general fund account following a mandatory introductory/orientation meeting among the project lead, financial administrator (possibly the same person) and the representatives for the Green Seed Fund Grant. Graduate and undergraduate student funds will be transferred to the major professor/faculty supervisor’s account. Funded proposals should plan to begin work no earlier than February 2016. Reporting Requirements Grant awardees will be required to provide brief quarterly updates during the duration of the project. Depending on the nature of the project, the update may be requested as a short written report, in person meeting or PowerPoint. Reporting format will be discussed and determined at the Award Notification Meeting, and can change after the meeting with consensus from the project leads and Green Seed Fund Grant team. At the end of each calendar year, a research brief with the abstract, findings, and recommendations will be required. Recommendations will be submitted to the Environmental Stewardship Committee, the Vice Provost of Planning and Management, and the Provost. Questions? See the Detailed Proposal Requirements or Contact us by e-mail. Why is the Green Seed Fund program Important? The Green Seed Fund grant encourages innovative and interdisciplinary research that contributes to campus sustainability goals found in the Climate Action Plan; to reduce carbon emissions (Section 4) and to develop funding mechanisms for implementation of the plan (Section 6.1). The grant aligns with Strategy 2.1.4. to foster academic engagement in climate change by creating connections between academic research and administrative activities. Home Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA