Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Student Experience Green Seed Fund Green Seed Fund 2014 Approved Projects Green Seed Fund 2014 Approved Projects Close Menu Home Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund The Green Seed Fund awards grants to UW faculty, students, and staff to research opportunities that advance sustainable research while contributing to campus sustainability goals. Listed below are the projects awarded funding during 2014. A committee comprised of students, faculty and staff reviewed fifteen proposals totaling over $975,000 and awarded five proposals nearly $279,000 in funding. The projects were selected because the review committee felt that they will contribute to UW sustainability goals, are research focused, the project scope seems well thought out and achievable, the project has a broad reach, and will contribute to greenhouse gas reductions for the University. Learn more about the Green Seed Fund. Building User Audit: Capturing Behavior, Energy, and Culture Total Amount Awarded: $73,156 Final report or presentation The purpose of this project is to develop and pilot a building use audit tool that will measure physical characteristics of UW building use. The tool will measure the cultural context of a building such as lighting and energy use, density and use of equipment plug loads, frequency of window use, and frequency of occupant use of building and schedules. The consideration of cultural context will be important as the buildings on UW campus house many different departments and functions with each having a different impact of energy consumption on campus. Engaging laboratories in the University of Washington's Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences to establish a model for environmental sustainability Total Amount Awarded: $58,221 Final report or presentation The goal of this project is to facilitate the adoption of the UW Green Labs Certification program for the UW Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences laboratories. The group will work to find a better understanding of barriers, to score higher on the Green Labs certification and finding better guidelines for low-scoring parts of the application. The project will identify the best green practices for labs, where implementation will have the greatest impact, and serve as a template for other laboratories. Grounds Utility Vehicle Carbon Footprint Comparison Total Amount Awarded: $32,170 Final report or presentation The project, focused on UW’s Botanic Garden’s Washington Park Arboretum, will compare the utility performance of the two different fuel sourced vehicles used at this facility: diesel and electric. The project will gather data that will inform grounds purchasing decisions for vehicles that are strong enough for grounds work and do not contribute to the university’s greenhouse gas emissions. Indoor Environment Quality Assessment Total Amount Awarded: $75,410 Final report or presentation This project seeks to investigate the indoor environmental quality of the Husky Union Building. The group will measure temperature, air speed, acoustics, lighting, water consumption, and quality of indoor comfort through building occupant surveys. They will measure the building using instruments provided by the HUB and distinguish the quality of energy and utility consumption, if efficiency problems exist, and whether the same analysis can be used on other UW campus buildings. Measured Benefits: Monitoring the Impacts of the UW Green Wall and Water Harvesting System Total Amount Awarded: $40,478 Final report or presentation The UW Green Wall and Water Harvesting Systems was installed in the fall of 2012 to help reduce building energy needs, conserve potable water, reduce storm water pollution, and increase biodiversity. Now the project will be analyzed to measure exterior and interior temperature, its support of bird and insect use, stormwater management and water conservation potential, and its contribution to plant diversity in an urban environment. The results of analyzing the wall will go towards maximizing these benefits and implementing them in future projects on campus. Home Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA