Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Eighty percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions come from combusting fossil fuels to generate energy, including electricity. We need to do our part toward reducing energy consumption. Achieving this goal will require accelerating the implementation of energy conservation projects, targeting older and less efficient buildings for deep retrofits, and ensuring all new buildings meet the UW Green Building Standard to minimize water and energy consumption. The expanded use of utility metering and monitoring based commissioning will keep buildings operating optimally. Water conservation UW will monitor opportunities to reduce water consumption for new building construction, maintenance and irrigation. In collaboration with academic units, UW Facilities will explore paths to research the feasibility of enhancing water reduction through the use of new technologies or integration into campus planning. Target actions for 2022 Implement cost effective conservation investments Expand campus Meter Monitor O&M program Develop a Demand Side Management (DSM) approach View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Implement cost effective conservation investments In 2015, comprehensive energy engineering audits of 112 campus buildings identified energy conservation opportunities requiring $25 million of capital investment but avoiding $5 million in energy waste annually. Once the initial $25 million capital investment is made, additional conservation investments can be pursued at $5 million per year, resulting in optimization to the built environment by 2025 operating at least 15% more efficiently than the 2015 baseline audit condition. Once optimized the building stock will be monitored (see Expand Campus Meter Monitor O&M Program below) both to insure persistence of the energy cost avoidance, and to identify additional conservation opportunities. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Execute 17 minor conservation projects in 32 campus buildings avoiding an estimated $1 million annual utility cost (completing mid FY22). Estimated capital cost will be $3.2M, of which $1.6 million can be recovered in utility rebates. Begin initial design, permitting and equipment procurement for a UW Tower Energy Improvement Project. This project will demonstrate hot water energy transfer from data center waste heat to heat the office tower. The project will replace end-of life, inefficient electric resistance boilers at the tower, using one or more replacement heat recovery chillers at the data center. The project will involve DDC controls upgrades and potentially thermal storage. Conduct in-house energy engineering analysis in coordination with the One Capital Plan and other initiatives to identify one or more co-funding opportunities for a major renovation or deep retrofit in FY2023-FY2025, that can support future revolving fund revenues. Responsible party UW Facilities Campus Energy, Utilities and Operations Statuses and linkages From 2015 to present, the resource conservation program has invested $5 million in 32 projects capturing $2.2 million in utility rebates and avoiding $624,000 in annual utility cost. These past and future building efficiency activities incrementally bring the campus into compliance with Washington State Clean Buildings Code, City of Seattle Benchmarking and Tune-up Ordinances. These Actions also support the overarching initiative to meet State greenhouse gas reduction targets (see Target X). Future investments must be coordinated and augmented with the One Capital Plan, facility preservation fund and program renewal investment funds. Additionally, resource conservation investments must be coordinated with self-sustaining units’ capital investment programs. Financing A Green Revolving Fund (GRF) has been conceptually approved by senior leadership. Last year, the detailed design of the fund model was completed and broadly socialized with stakeholders. Assuming the GRF is approved by UW decision makers, the revolving fund will be seeded with sufficient funding to generate future revenue to sustain the $3.2 million in conservation projects going forward. Additional larger projects could be funded via debt. Metrics Energy Use Intensity (EUI): energy consumed per year per gross square foot of conditioned space (weather and occupancy normalized). Campus reduction is measured against the baseline of 2020 EUI. Campus target as measured against Washington State Clean Buildings Code Annex Z.7. Net Savings (NS) (present value of lifetime utility cost avoided less the discount rate). Savings to Investment Ratio (SIR) (Net Savings divided by net capital investment). Action: Expand campus Meter Monitor O&M program Expand and fully fund the UW Facilities Meter Monitor Program. Hire a full time program manager, and modernize data collection technology. Formalize, document and begin automation of program business processes, measures and outputs. Track and report key performance indicators no less than quarterly. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Operationalize the Meter Monitor Program’s “MBCx process“ in seven additional campus buildings. Replace the legacy Campus Energy dashboard. Implement the research and academic data portal tool in OSiSoft to greatly expand access to campus energy data. Fund $250k in on-going annual program operations & maintenance, and hire a Meter Monitor Program Manager to manage the MBCx process and new building integrations in 14 buildings by end of FY2022. Responsible party UW Facilities Campus Energy, Utilities and Operations Statuses and linkages The Meter Monitor Program is an extension of a American Recovery and Reinvestment Act legacy Smart Grid program. In addition to ensuring the persistence of utility costs avoided by the Action Implement Cost Effective Conservation Investments above, this Action is an early contributor to the Portfolio Management Strategy that is a UW Facilities strategic priority for FY2022. This Action will significantly improve UW Facilities operational and maintenance efficiency. Financing Financing for this Action is currently funded by the electrical budget to meet state and local reporting requirements. Step 2 is not funded and will require a budgetary allocation from central administration. Metrics Maintenance of net EUI reduction over time. Reduction of annual Operations and Maintenance cost, divided by work order cost of implementing target EUI outcome. Action: Develop a Demand Side Management (DSM) approach A significant untapped opportunity for conservation existing within the control of campus programs and academic units at the building use management and administration level. Building upon the existing ‘Green Labs” program developed by UW Sustainability, the DSM will engage sustainability champions in our buildings to self organize for the purpose of raising awareness and modifying occupant behaviors that affect building energy consumption. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Develop, publish and communicate: program overview, goals and guiding principles document; a building champion roles and responsibility guidance document; sign-up seven “pilot” facilities by close of FY22. Develop program education materials plans and a program building level execution methodology. Develop communications plans with requirements. Launch beta test materials and plans in seven “pilot” facilities. Responsible party UW Facilities Campus Energy, Utilities and Operations Statuses and linkages Positive proactive communication with building occupants increases goodwill and opens doors to active communication and higher understanding. Empowering building occupants to actively modify wasteful behaviors builds trust and alignment of purpose. A strong engagement program will lead to greater campus support and alignment for future energy transformation decisions. Financing Funding requirements will be assessed and developed using experiences from the seven building “pilot” at the end of FY 2022. There is no additional funding needed for FY22. Metrics EUI reduction per pilot building per month and in the future per year. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Implement Cost Effective Conservation Investments In 2015, comprehensive energy engineering audits of 112 campus buildings identified energy conservation opportunities requiring $25 million of capital investment but avoiding $5 million in energy waste annually. Once the initial $25 million capital investment is made, additional conservation investments can be pursued at $5 million/yr, resulting in optimization to the built environment by 2025 operating at least 15% more efficiently than the 2015 baseline audit condition. Once optimized the building stock will be monitored (see Expand Campus Meter Monitor O&M Program below) both to insure persistence of the energy cost avoidance, and to identify additional conservation opportunities. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Execute 17 minor conservation projects in 32 campus buildings avoiding an estimated $1 million annual utility cost (starting mid FY22). Estimated capital cost will be $3.2M, of which $1.6 million can be recovered in utility rebates. Begin initial design, permitting and equipment procurement for a Phase II expansion of the West Campus Utility Plant. This project will pilot seasonal hot water energy transfer to a select group of high-EUI buildings in west and south campus, using a new, 1,300-ton heat recovery chiller. Conduct in-house energy engineering analysis in coordination with the One Capital Plan and other initiatives to identify one or more co-funding opportunities for a major renovation or deep retrofit in FY2022-FY2023, that can support future revolving fund revenues. Responsible party UW Facilities Asset Management Statuses and linkages From 2015 to present, the resource conservation program has invested $5 million in 32 projects capturing $2.2 million in utility rebates and avoiding $624,000 in annual utility cost. These past and future building efficiency activities incrementally bring the campus into compliance with Washington State Clean Buildings Code, City of Seattle Benchmarking and Tune-up Ordinances. These Actions also support the overarching initiative to meet State greenhouse gas reduction targets (see Target X below). Future investments must be coordinated and augmented with the One Capital Plan, facility preservation fund and program renewal investment funds. Additionally, resource conservation investments must be coordinated with self-sustaining units’ capital investment programs. Financing A centralized energy management revolving investment fund has been conceptually approved by senior leadership. Currently, the detailed design of the fund is underway. Assuming the conceptual intent is borne out in the detailed design and approved by UW decision makers, the revolving fund will be seeded with sufficient funding to generate future revenue. For Phase II expansion of the West Campus Utility Plant, an ongoing feasibility study suggests a $1.2M utility cost avoidance on an $8M capital investment. $1.8 million of the initial investment is required in FY2021. Metrics Net energy usage intensity (EUI) reduction (weather and gross square footage use intensity normalized). Return on investment (lifetime utility cost avoided/net value invested). Simple payback (net capital invested/annual utility cost avoided). This action may impact STARS credits OP-2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions where UW shows a points gap of 3.91, and OP-5 Building Energy Efficiency where UW shows a points gap of 2.16. Action: Expand Campus Meter Monitor O&M Program Formalize and fully fund the UW Facilities Meter Monitor Program. Hire a full time program manager, and modernize data collection technology. Formalize, document and begin automation of program business processes, measures and outputs. Track and report key performance indicators no less than quarterly. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Fund $250k to purchase, configure, and document equipment, and train UW Facilities operators. Existing staff time will be turned toward new information technology hardware and software per May 11, 2020 recommendations by the UW Meter Monitor Team. Operationalize the Meter Monitor Program’s “MBCx process“ in seven additional campus buildings. Fund $250k in on-going annual program operations & maintenance, hire a Meter Monitor Program Manager, operationalize MBCx process in 14 buildings by end of FY2021. Conduct analysis for future Meter Monitor investment strategy, including investments in additional steam and water meters at all state funded buildings. Responsible party UW Facilities Asset Management Statuses and linkages The Meter Monitor Program is an extension of a American Recovery and Reinvestment Act legacy Smart Grid program. In addition to ensuring the persistence of utility costs avoided by the Action Implement Cost Effective Conservation Investments above, this Action is an early contributor to the Portfolio Management Strategy that is a UW Facilities strategic priority for FY2021. This Action will significantly improve UW Facilities operational and maintenance efficiency. Financing Financing for this Action is shared with Action Implement Cost Effective Conservation Investments above. Step 3 will likely identify a funding gap in the $6 million to $7 million range for some metering equipment that cannot be fully covered with the associated return on investment. Metrics Maintenance of net EUI reduction over time. Reduction of annual Operations and Maintenance cost, divided by work order cost of implementing target EUI outcome. This action may induce indirect points gains in STARS credits OP-4 Building Operations and Maintenance where UW shows a point gap of 3.50, and OP-5 Building Energy Efficiency where UW shows a point gap of 2.16. Action: Purchase Only Energy Star Appliances A large percent of building operations energy utilization comes from appliances and other building related equipment. In accordance with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (EPCA), as amended, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) implements minimum efficiency standards for a wide range of appliances and equipment used in residential and commercial buildings. These federal efficiency standards compel product designers and manufacturers to reduce the amount of energy and water necessary for the proper operation of appliances and other building equipment. The voluntary Energy Star Program, jointly administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is the most widely recognized symbol for energy efficiency in the world and promotes products that are even more energy efficient than those that meet the minimum federal standards. The University’s commitment to energy conservation includes ensuring Energy Star certified appliances and equipment requirements are incorporated into the University’s Facilities Design Guide and Procurement Policies. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Develop regular communications highlighting Procurement guidelines for Energy Star purchasing requirements. Develop annual reporting for Energy Star appliances. Work with UW Facilities and HFS to promote Energy Star appliances for all new buildings. Responsible party Procurement Services and UW Facilities Finance & Administration Statuses and linkages Procurement Services promotes environmentally preferred purchasing (EPP) as defined by the National Associate of Educational Procurement, meaning that environmental and social considerations are “taken with equal weight to the price, availability and performance criteria that colleges and universities use to make purchasing decisions.” The University’s buying staff leverage current supplier relationships to raise awareness of the purchasing considerations necessary to reduce our environmental impact and to maximize resource efficiency. In order to further the University’s commitment to sustainability, individual departments are encouraged to purchase recycled and environmentally preferable products, when quality, performance and price are comparable to alternatives. Procurement works with manufacturers and Seattle City Light to identify equipment subject to Seattle City Light energy rebates. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. Metrics Percentage of Energy Star appliance purchases compared to total spend on a quarterly basis. This action may impact STARS credit OP-5 Building Energy Efficiency where UW shows a points gap of 2.16. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA