Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Environmental Stewardship Committee Environmental Stewardship Committee Close Menu Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog The UW Environmental Stewardship Committee provides recommendations for environmental policies at the University of Washington, and oversees progress towards meeting the goals of the UW's Sustainability Action Plan. Committee Role and Structure The Committee communicates with individuals, groups, and committees across the University, both to gather information about ongoing sustainability measures, and to communicate progress. The Committee also works to identify emerging and growing opportunities for collaboration among academic and administrative units, offering the campus as a learning lab for students and faculty to work with administration on increased operational sustainability. The Committee reports to the President, Provost, and Senior Vice Presidents. The Committee is represented by individuals from administrative departments, academic units and student groups, as well as members from the UW Bothell and UW Tacoma campuses and ex-officio members from the Medical Centers and Housing & Food Services. See the members of the committee. The Committee meets five times per academic year. Historic Timeline December 2000: then-Executive Vice President Weldon Ihrig convened a 12-member task force to review the UW’s environmental policies and practices. Academic Year 2003-2004: formation of the Sustainable UW Alliance, to encourage focus on clean energy and green buildings. August 2004: creation of the Environmental Stewardship Advisory Committee (ESAC). Then-UW President Mark A. Emmert announced to the President's Cabinet and the Board of Deans that the UW was adopting a Policy of Environmental Stewardship, of which the ESAC was the overseeing body. The Policy reaffirmed the University's commitment to environmental stewardship and responsibility. ESAC was chartered to act as a guide, provide advice and help develop the University's sustainability goals and was formed through a grassroots effort of staff, faculty and students coordinated by the Program on the Environment. January 2009: ESAC chartered a Climate Action Planning Oversight Team. September 2009: the UW’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) was drafted, adopted, and submitted to the American College & University Presidents' Climate Commitment (ACUPCC). April 2012: ESAC was reorganized into the Environmental Stewardship Committee (ESC), a University-wide committee that oversees the University's goals and development in relation to its commitment to sustainability. In collaboration with University units andstakeholders, the Committee identifies long-term goals and standards, as well as develops benchmark measures . August 2012: President Michael Young signed UW Executive Order Number 13 on Environmental Stewardship and Sustainability. The effort was spearheaded by ESC and CAP policy sub-teams. The Order confirms the University's longstanding commitment to sustainability and serves as the guide for future sustainable policy development and pursuit of CAP objectives. June 2016: The ESC voted to implement a new Statement of Purpose further defining the committee's role and function. Contact Information For further information about the Environmental Stewardship Committee, contact: UW Sustainability E-mail: sustainability@uw.edu Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA