Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability This Target is about increasing the visibility of, and access to, sustainability in campus life. Implementing actions include a wide range of education programs, collaborations, and volunteerism that touch the lives of nearly every student, staff and faculty member, as well as community members in the neighborhoods surrounding UW campuses. The 2022 Action Plan will include actions that promote innovative collaborations between UW’s existing healthy living and environmental sustainability efforts; expanded professional development; and community engagement programs. Target actions for 2022 Whole U and UW Sustainability collaborate to expand university-wide equitable engagement Expand professional development opportunities for faculty and staff Inventory and expand community engagement View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize AASHE STARS categories: EN 2 Student Orientation EN 9 Professional Staff Development & Training EN 12 Continuing Education EN 13 Community Service Target actions for 2022 Action: Whole U and UW Sustainability collaborate to expand university-wide equitable engagement Outreach to underrepresented groups is key, specifically targeting and obtaining feedback from these groups on the plan actions and connections with sustainability is imperative. Steps we will take in FY 2022 UW Sustainability continue to work to define “sustainability engagement” in measurable terms, and use information gathered in FY21 for event attendance. The defined measurement unit shall correlate to an individual receiving an encouragement toward considering environmental impact, human health, diversity, equity or inclusion in the context of their participation in the UW community. The Whole U plans to continue offering a seminar every quarter in collaboration with UW Sustainability and will add sustainability features to a monthly editorial calendar and encourage UW Sustainability to contribute articles or recommend other UW faculty and staff for participation. UW Sustainability will revamp the Green Office and Lab Certification programs and include student ambassadors; provide student capstone internships to engage with underrepresented groups and RSOs; and develop an inclusion plan for outreach communication. Responsible party UW Sustainability & Whole U Statuses and linkages Whole U quarterly seminars and wellness programs, Green Office and Lab Certification Program, Sustainability Stories virtual and on-campus events, promoting virtual and on-campus events to underrepresented groups. Financing Additional financing needed in FY2022. Continued University support of the Whole U program will ensure this Action will involve reach to all UW faculty and staff members. Metrics Number of participants as a percentage of the promotional reach of communication (e.g. website traffic, email distribution or newsletter subscribers) based on the FY21 baseline. Number of new certified offices and labs (when applicable for on-campus return) as a percentage of the promotional reach of communication (e.g. newsletter advertisement, tabling at events, presentations via in-person or online). Annual Sustainability Plan survey response count, beginning with the 2020 results and continuing with subsequent Annual Sustainability Plan surveys. Action: Expand professional development opportunities for faculty and staff The Whole U will work with Professional and Organizational Development (POD) on incorporating further slides and information on important sustainability resources and training at New Hire Orientation. UW Sustainability will support the Whole U through resources such as campus sustainability data and metrics and facilitation for training programs. Established faculty will be encouraged to share and talk about their experience or on-going projects. We will explore creating an incentive for staff/faculty to attend sustainability & DEI events and have a quarterly reporting or check-in meeting with colleges and academic departments. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Work with UW Departments to identify an incentive for staff/faculty to attend Sustainability/DEI related events. Set up a way for departments (both academic and operational) to track sustainability and DEI related work/ classes/programs or training. Responsible party UW Sustainability & Whole U Statuses and linkages This will complement Target II (Identify Minimum Learning Outcomes) Financing Continued University support of the Whole U program will ensure this Action will involve reach to all UW faculty and staff members. Metrics Calculate the number of new faculty and staff participation in the professional development network as a percentage of new hire orientations conducted. Calculate the number of existing faculty and staff participation in the professional development network as a percentage of those reached through outreach presentations and communications. Utilize surveys and survey data to measure engagement, and specifically to determine reach with underrepresented groups. Action: Inventory and expand community engagement Part 1 Build an inventory of courses with an existing community engagement component, and create a targeted outreach campaign to include departments with sustainability-focused community engagement work. Create a targeted outreach campaign to include departments with a focus on sustainability work. Work with Continuum College in developing innovative sustainability content, beginning with community lectures and summer youth programs. Create a list of underrepresented groups and establish a targeted outreach strategy for measuring engagement with underrepresented groups both online and in person. Part 2 Expand Community Engagement across campus, while offering enough time for groups to review and add input. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Utilize the course inventory being done as part of our AASHE STARS reporting to start an inventory of sustainability coursework. Collect data on sustainability-focused Registered Student Organizations (RSOs), and promote student engagement with community service through these RSOs. Depending on current levels of engagement, provide information and resources to these RSOs regarding engagement with both episodic and long-term volunteer opportunities. Evaluate expanding opportunities to all RSOs. Coordinate with Continuum College to incorporate sustainability into their curriculum, track attendance for these courses and offer continuing communications to attendees through newsletters, websites and social media. Responsible party UW Sustainability & Continuum College Statuses and linkages This will complement Target II. Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021. Metrics Number of attendees of Continuum College sustainability courses as a percentage of audience reached through promotions and marketing. Number of departments contacted with sustainability related community engagement programs or activities. Number of new student volunteers from RSOs as a percentage of service learners. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Whole U and UW Sustainability Collaborate To Expand University-wide Communication A collaboration between Whole U, UW Sustainability and other campus communicators to create a comprehensive and integral package of sustainability communications for the UW Seattle, Tacoma and Bothell campuses. This Action is an important platform for integration between diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) and environmental sustainability, following the Sustainability Plan’s third Guiding Principle. Historically, UW Sustainability has been about the natural environment, while Whole U has been about human well-being. At UW, we will be building the bridge connecting these previously disparate efforts into a united platform of sustainability. Contributing programs and concepts include: Expanding Sustainability Stories virtual and on campus events with diversity, equity and inclusion topics. Launching expanded Whole U signature wellness initiatives centered around each year’s Earth Day. Expanding the existing Whole U Quarterly Seminars program. Revamping the Green Office and Lab Certification program with student ambassadors Steps we will take in FY 2021 UW Sustainability will lead an effort to define “sustainability engagement” in measurable terms, and assess a 2020 baseline. The defined measurement unit shall correlate to an individual receiving an encouragement toward considering environmental impact, human health, diversity, equity or inclusion in the context of their participation in the UW community. The Whole U plans to continue offering a seminar every quarter in collaboration with UW Sustainability and will add sustainability features to a monthly editorial calendar and encourage UW Sustainability to contribute articles or recommend other UW faculty and staff. UW Sustainability will revamp the Green Office and Lab Certification programs and include student ambassadors; provide student capstone internships to engage with underrepresented groups and RSOs; develop an inclusion plan for outreach communications. The Whole U will add a sustainability focus for every signature program that involved overall wellness. Responsible party UW Sustainability & Whole U Statuses and linkages Whole U quarterly seminars and wellness programs, Green Office and Lab Certification Program, Sustainability Stories virtual and on-campus events. Financing Additional financing needed in FY2021. Continued University support of the Whole U program will ensure this Action will involve reach to all UW faculty and staff members. Metrics Number of participants as a percentage of the promotional reach of communication (e.g. website traffic, email distribution or newsletter subscribers) Number of new certified offices and labs (when applicable for on-campus return) as a percentage of the promotional reach of communication (e.g. newsletter advertisement, tabling at events, presentations via in-person or online) Annual Sustainability Plan survey response count, beginning with the 2020 results and continuing with subsequent Annual Sustainability Plan surveys. This Action may contribute points toward STARS credit EN-2 Student Orientation where UW shows a point gap of 0.56.1 UW has already achieved the full value of most credits grouped under the STARS Campus Engagement subcategory. Action: Expand Professional Development Opportunities for Faculty and Staff The Whole U to work with Professional and Organizational Development (POD) on incorporating further slides and information on important sustainability resources and trainings at New Hire Orientation. UW Sustainability will support the Whole U through resources such as campus sustainability data and metrics and facilitation for training programs. Established faculty will be encouraged to share and talk about their experience or on-going projects. This can provide opportunities for new faculty to get recruited into existing programs so they don’t need to re-invent the wheel. Steps we will take in FY 2021 The Whole U will work with POD in including UW Sustainability resources for New Hire Orientation. The Whole U will also include sustainability resources when tabling at the new hire events and virtual events. Work with UW Marketing to reach faculty, and develop a faculty sustainability network and outreach strategy. May include a Faculty Sustainability Fellows program modeled after Western Washington University. Responsible party UW Sustainability & Whole U Statuses and linkages Whole U quarterly seminars and wellness programs, Green Office and Lab Certification Program, Sustainability Stories virtual and on-campus events. Financing Additional financing needed in FY2021. Continued University support of the Whole U program will ensure this Action will involve reach to all UW faculty and staff members. Metrics Calculate the number of new faculty participation in the professional development network as a percentage of new hire orientations conducted. Calculate the number of existing faculty participation in the professional development network as a percentage of those reached through outreach presentations and communications. This action can gain points in STARS credit EN-9 Professional Staff Development & Training where UW shows a point gap of 2.00. Action: Inventory and Expand Community Engagement Part 1 Build an inventory of sustainability coursework currently offered through Continuum College through a web review of published information and feedback from Continuum College program directors. Sustainability foci in offerings would be identified following AASHE STARS definitions. Begin a conversation with Continuum College to integrate relevant sustainability content into continuing education offerings. Explore ways to assist Continuum College in developing innovative sustainability content, beginning with community lectures and summer youth programs. Part 2 Collect data from the Carnegie Classification on sustainability related opportunities and promote these opportunities with student service learning opportunities. Steps we will take in FY 2021 Coordinate with Continuum college to incorporate sustainability into their curriculum, track attendance for these courses and offer continuing communications to attendees through newsletters, website and social media. Collect data on sustainability focused Registered Student Organizations (RSOs), and promote student engagement with community service through these RSOs. Depending on current levels of engagement, provide information and resources to these RSOs regarding engagement with both episodic and long-term volunteer opportunities. Evaluate expanding opportunities to all RSOs Responsible party UW Sustainability & Continuum College Statuses and linkages Linkages to: Carnegie Classification, Carlson Service Learning Financing No additional financing needed in FY 2021 Metrics Number of attendees of Continuum College sustainability courses as a percentage of audience reached through promotions and marketing. Number of new student volunteers from RSOs as a percentage of service learners. This action can gain points in STARS credit EN-12 Continuing Education where UW shows a point gap of 2.65, and in credit EN-13 Community Service where UW shows a point gap of 3.77. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA