Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW West Campus Utility Plant West Campus Utility Plant Interpretive Element Content Guide West Campus Utility Plant Interpretive Element Content Guide Close Menu Home West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide West Campus Utility Plant Interpretive Element Content Guide Purpose of this document: Document the content creation and management process Define roles Point to supporting documents (web page to guide potential content creators and technical specifications document) OBJECTIVE: The objective of the Interpretive Element is to use the WCUP building as a messaging platform for conveying the University’s sustainability story. SCOPE: All WCUP content will strive to tell stories of sustainability at UW. Specific messages we would like to convey are: The University of Washington is committed to sustainability (students, faculty, staff, leadership), in every way (transportation, consumption, disposal, efficiency etc.), and in every aspect of the University’s work (research, curriculum, operations). Sustainability is part of the student experience. Students want to make a difference and they do. Sustainability is important to the UW. We take it seriously - and have the courage to take a stand. The UW is committed to finding solutions to complex sustainability problems and long-term visions of sustainability. We are making progress in becoming more sustainable (sustainability metrics). There are many cool, fun sustainability stories at UW. Out of Scope: WCUP content will not include: promotion advertising political recruitment time-sensitive information COORDINATION: The WCUP displays will be managed by the UW Sustainability Office who will: Coordinate with content creators Document the scope/guidelines Upload/revise/replace content as needed Monitor the displays (along with UW Facilities) Inform UW Facilities, the University Architect and UW Marketing when new content is ready for display Maintain an Advisory Group consisting of representatives from UW Sustainability, UW Facilities, the Office of the UW Architect and UW Marketing. Process for introducing new content UW Sustainability will create new content for the Interpretive Element and will also seek out content creators and support their efforts. The steps for creating new content will be as follows: Content creator will present their general intent UWS will ensure that the envisioned content falls within the defined scope UWS will provide technical guidelines for content UWS will meet with the content creator during content creation to provide support and guidance UWS will send a draft version of the content to the Advisory Group for review UWS will send the final version of the content to the Advisory Group UWS will schedule and activate content with the help of Facilities as needed Process for revising/replacing content The general expectation is that content created for the WCUP Interpretive Display will be displayed for a minimum of 1 quarter. UWS will determine when previous content will be retired to the content library and make room for new content. Design brief for contributors /General design guidelines [TBD] Home West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA