Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Events Earth Day UW 2022 Earth Month events UW 2022 Earth Month events Close Menu Home Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days The University of Washington will celebrate Earth Day with a celebration at the HUB on April 22, but there are events across the UW celebrating our planet and the environment during the entire Earth Week and beyond. Here is a sampling of the events happening around UW as part of the Earth Day celebration: April 21 Society for Ecololgical Restoration Heron Haven volunteer work party Heron Haven work site, 9-11 a.m. Every Thursday throughout Spring quarter, the UW Chapter of the Society for Ecological Restoration is hosting volunteer work parties at their Heron Haven site between Drumheller Fountain and Anderson Hall. Everyone is welcome and no experience is needed. Gloves, tools, and snacks are provided for all volunteers. RSVP required Native Plant Nursery work party Douglas Research Conservatory, 11:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. Get hands-on experience with native plant production and restoration. Activities include propagation, potting-up, plant care, invasive species removal, and more. No experience necessary, all equipment will be provided. Masks are required. Bring a water bottle and clothes that you don't mind getting dirty. RSVP Net Impact Idea Lab: "You made a climate pledge, now what?" Paccar Hall, 5-9 p.m. Idea Lab is the Foster School of Business Net Impact Club’s premier mini-conference. It is an opportunity for students, professionals, academics, and policymakers to come together to discuss the most pressing issues in sustainability and environmental, social, and governance. This year’s theme will be "So You Made a Climate Pledge, Now What?" - How leading businesses, governments, and NGOs are putting ideas into action and executing on ambitious climate commitments. Keynote speakers include Sally Jewell, former Secretary of the Interior and UW Fritzky Chair in Leadership; Sally Fouts, Director of the Climate Pledge at Amazon; and Mark Kroese, GM of Sustainability Solutions at Microsoft. Tickets April 22 Earth Day Fair HUB Street, 11 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. The Earth Day Fair on the main floor of the HUB will feature departments, organizations and student groups from across the University of Washington who are working for sustainability. Stop by and discovery sustainability tips, learn about UW's efforts and ways you can get involved. Earth Day at the UW Farm Center for Urban Horticulture, 12 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. Join the UW Farm for a ribbon-cutting event celebrating UW's first commercial-scale vermicomposting facility, followed by an opportunity to feed the worms and learn how they turn farm waste into a nutrient-rich soil amendment. At 1 p.m. join a tour of the UW Farm to learn about its history and current programs. Earth Day North Campus Community Cleanup meet at median 17th Ave NE & NE 47th St, 2-4:30 p.m. Join this community street cleanup organized by the UW Green Greek Representative Program. All are invited to help clean the north campus area and U-District. April 23 UW Farm Renovation of the Agricultural Hedgerow Center for Urban Horticulture, 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Volunteers are needed to help plant native berry and fruit varieties and help with sheet-mulching to protect them and kept them moist. Bring gloves if you have them, a bottle of water, snack and wear layers for staying warm in changing weather. This is part of a capstone project led by Restoration Horticulture major Russell Botulinski. Earth Day restoration at the Arboretum Washington Park Arboretum, 9 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. The UW Botanic Gardens are partnering with the Student Conservation Association, Arboretum Foundation, UW Botanic Gardens, and Seattle Parks and Recreation to restore the Washington Park Arboretum by removing invasive ivy and weeding the collections. All are welcome to volunteer, but advance registration is required. Register April 28 Husky Green Awards Ceremony Allen Library Petersen Room, 3-5 p.m. The Husky Green Awards recognize individuals and groups across all University of Washington campuses who lead the way for sustainability at the University of Washington. More information May 3 Nature and Health Walks: "Nearby nature self-care, evidence and action" meet at Drumheller Fountain, 3 p.m. Nature and Health and UW Sustainability are co-hosting a UW Seattle Campus nature walk, which will be moderated by research social scientist Kathy Wolf, PhD from the School of Environmental and Forest Sciences. The walk begins at Drumheller Fountain and will last about an hour. Our first walk is a collaboration between Nature and Health and UW Sustainability to encourage spending time in nature on campus. Please register, space is limited. Register Past events April 12 You and the UW Sustainability Action Plan: How can we make it real for all of us? Zoom, 6:30 p.m. You and the UW Sustainability Action Plan: how can we make it real for all of us? Marilyn Ostergren, Interim Director of UW Sustainability, will will discuss the 10 targets and five guiding principles of the University of Washington’s Sustainability Action Plan with a combination of blue sky wishes, on-the-ground realities, and an effort to figure out how we can all care deeply about it. We want this plan to push us where we want to go and do so in a way that centers equity and inclusion while using resources responsibly and aligning with the research and teaching mission of the university. How do we do that? She will share her thoughts and welcome yours. Part of the UW Tacoma Grit Think & Drink series. Details April 14 Environmental Conversations: Representative Mary Dye Zoom, 5:30 p.m. Rep. Dye introduced the ORCA Plan in the Washington state legislature. The ORCA Plan would use incoming CCA (Climate Commitment Act) dollars for tangible outdoor recreation benefits and smart investments in climate adaptation to promote healthier forests, a cleaner Puget Sound, and resilience to drought and flood risks. The Environmental Conversations event series is co-produced by the Center for Environmental Politics and EarthLab. Society for Ecological Restoration Heron Haven work party Heron Haven site, 9 a.m. - 11 a.m. Join the SER-UW for a volunteer restoration work party at the Heron Haven site. Everyone is welcome and no experience is needed. Gloves, tools, and snacks are provided for all volunteers. Dress ready for the weather, wear sturdy shoes, be prepared to get dirty, and don’t forget your water bottle! Also, bring proof of vaccination. Please RSVP before attending. Native Plant Nursery work party Douglas Research Conservatory, 11:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. Get hands-on experience with native plant production and restoration. Activities include propagation, potting-up, plant care, invasive species removal, and more. No experience necessary, all equipment will be provided. Masks are required. Bring a water bottle and clothes that you don't mind getting dirty. April 18 UW Tacoma Earth Week Extravaganza William Philip Hall, 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Join the UW Tacoma Sustainability Committee to celebrate Earth Week. Learn about sustainability at UWT, drop off e-waste for recycling, donate to the UWT Panty, help plant the UWT Giving Garden, and join in the Sustainability Pie-in-the-face contest. You can also donate or find re-purposed clothing or housewares at the Husky STUFF Exchange. UW Bothell waste sorting Cascadia College CC1 Room 351, 3:30 - 5 p.m. All community members are welcome to join UW Bothell and Cascadia College for a waste sorting activity. April 19 UW Bothell Activity Fair UW Bothell/Cascadia College campus in front of Library, 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. Sustainability tabling and activities with Recology and others. All community members welcome. April 20 Decarbonization at UW Zoom, 2:30 p.m. Join a discussion about decarbonization and what it might mean for the University of Washington and local communities. The State of Washington and the UW’s Sustainability Action Plan call for the UW to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and work toward carbon neutrality. What will this mean for all of us, and what are the technical, social and financial challenges we face in making this happen? Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Forum Virtual conference on Zoom Wednesday, April 20, 12-4pm Thursday, April 21, 9am-1pm Sustainability and diversity, equity & inclusion are intrinsically intertwined to ensure a just and equitable world. The UW Professional Staff Organization (PSO) and departments across UW’s three campuses have organized this virtual forum, focused around a theme of action. The DEI Forum is developed by staff, for staff, but open to faculty and students as well. It will take place via Zoom on April 20-21, 2022. UW Bothell film screening: "Kiss the Ground" Cascadia College CC1 Room 102, 6 p.m. UW Bothell and Cascadia College's Sustainability offices are hosting a screening of the film Kiss the Ground, which looks at how regenerating the world's soils can help draw down atmospheric carbon. Everyone is welcome. Home Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA