Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Our food is particularly emblematic of sustainability, a personal and literal symbol of the connection between the social and the environmental. The physically closer we are to the original sources of our food, the greater our ability is to affect positive change. At all three campuses, focusing on local food sources means we are engaging with, investing in, and providing support to our local food systems while reducing the carbon footprint of our community. Target actions for 2022 Increase sourcing of local foods 1% each year based on a 2021 baseline Expand plant-based options by 10% by 2025 Increase student engagement education and understanding of impact of plant-based options View actions for past fiscal years Sustainability plan guiding principles Ensure students achieve sustainability literacy Choose our research conscientiously Keep equity and inclusion at the center Use resources responsibly Decarbonize Target actions for 2022 Action: Increase sourcing of local foods 1% each year based on a 2021 baseline UW Housing and Food Services (HFS) Dining will actively seek to partner with suppliers and local vendors to raise the fraction of foods procured from within a 250-mile radius five percentage points, to a total of 35% of all foods procured. These Actions will aid in the support of the local food system while reducing the overall carbon footprint. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Analyze existing product purchases from our primary distributor in an effort to identify opportunities to migrate spend to local business within 250 miles of campus. Expand current UW Farm programming; enhance interdepartmental collaboration and planning. Increase student engagement through local vendor stories, tabling, and student facing information and resources. Responsible party Housing & Food Services Statuses and linkages To be successful and maintain a sustainable procurement approach, HFS Dining will need to balance the UW community demand with budgetary allowances as the increase of 1% year over year may result in higher food costs. In the event that these changes lead to higher food costs, UW Dining will seek direct support from Committee and Executive Leadership in the justifications for increased costs as result of this target. Additionally, HFS Dining will monitor the tolerance of higher priced menu items and will address the need for reevaluation of this target in the event increased costs are not tolerated and cannot be mitigated. Financing Financing for FY 2022 is contingent as described below. The cost of food is considered an operating cost within the HFS Dining budgets and is a part of the greater annual fiscal year budget creation and ongoing budget management processes. As a self-sustaining auxiliary, HFS Dining operates without outside financial assistance, including from the University of Washington or state funds. As a result, the services it provides are largely paid for through operating revenue from on-campus customers. Due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, there are complex considerations with upcoming budget creation and management. HFS Dining’s operating revenue is directly dependent upon the resident occupancy and number of people on campus. Additionally, HFS Dining will need to make changes to accommodate necessary regulations stemming from COVID-19 which are likely to come at an additional cost. All of these elements will need to be considered in conjunction with the potential increased costs of local food when pursuing these targets and may impact food cost budget. Metrics Percent of food expenditures on sources within 250 miles. (Additional metrics to be defined during FY 2022.) Action: Expand plant-based options by 10% by 2025 Increasing plant-based food options provides choices that are healthy for both our community and our planet. Recent science tells us plant-based options have been shown to emit lower greenhouse gasses than animal-based products. This focus allows UW Dining to provide more sustainable options on campus, including those grown sustainably and responsibly within our local food system. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Expand plant-based options available to students in food service units. Develop additional plant based options for Dining menus. Increase plant-based protein purchases. Responsible party Housing and Food Services Statuses and linkages Plant-based food will support our local food purchase while reducing associated greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, increased plant based options will continue to support the UW Farm program on UW Seattle campus. Financing No additional funding needed. Metrics Plant-based options as a total percentage of menu items Total amount of plant-based proteins by pound per MCURC Protein Flip reporting AASHE STARS plant-based reporting Action: Increase student engagement education and understanding of impact of plant-based options Food systems play an important role for sustainability practices. It can significantly reduce carbon emissions from production and natural resource use, while ensuring sourcing is ethically and responsibly managed. Steps we will take in FY 2022 Collaborate with faculty Dr. Yona Sippos from the UW Nutritional Sciences Program to increase student led research around plant-forward impact and education. Responsible party Housing and Food Services Statuses and linkages Supports Target III, Campus as a Living Laboratory. Increase sustainability related research on campus. Increase student engagement in campus sustainability. Financing Needed financing will be assessed in FY22. Metrics Establish baseline on the number of students engaged with research project. Actions for fiscal year 2021 Action: Partner with Suppliers, Vendors and Campus Growers to Procure Food Locally UW Housing and Food Services (HFS) Dining will actively seek to partner with suppliers and local vendors to raise the fraction of foods procured from within a 250-mile radius five percentage points, to a total of 35% of all foods procured. These Actions will aid in the support of the local food system while reducing the overall carbon food-print. Steps we will take in FY 2021 UW Dining will make every effort to seek out procurement of foods from sources that are located within 250 miles of the University of Washington campus. UW Dining will continue to partner with the UW Farm and seek out innovative ways to increase the velocity of items that UW Dining purchases. UW Dining will collaborate with on and off-campus partners to advertise and bring awareness to local goods through various modes including but not limited to student outreach efforts and lecture opportunities. Responsible party Housing & Food Services Statuses and linkages UW Dining currently allocates 30% of its total food spend to local sources. To be successful and maintain a sustainable procurement approach, HFS Dining will need to balance the UW community demand with budgetary allowances as the increased target of 35% may result in higher food costs. In the event that these changes lead to higher food costs, UW Dining will seek direct support from Committee and Executive Leadership in the justifications for increased costs as result of this target. Additionally, HFS Dining will monitor the tolerance of higher priced menu items and will address the need for reevaluation of this target in the event increased costs are not tolerated and cannot be mitigated. Financing Financing for FY 2021 is contingent as described below. The cost of food is considered an operating cost within the HFS Dining budgets and is a part of the greater annual fiscal year budget creation and ongoing budget management processes. As a self-sustaining auxiliary, HFS Dining operates without outside financial assistance, including from the University of Washington or state funds. As a result, the services it provides are largely paid for through operating revenue from on- campus customers. Due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, there are complex considerations with upcoming budget creation and management. HFS Dining’s operating revenue is directly dependent upon the resident occupancy and number of people on campus. Additionally, HFS Dining will need to make changes to accommodate necessary regulations stemming from COVID-19 which are likely to come at an additional cost. All of these elements will need to be considered in conjunction with the potential increased costs of local food when pursuing these targets and may impact food cost budget. Metrics Percent of food expenditures on sources within 250 miles. (Additional metrics to be defined during FY 2021.) This action may induce an indirect points gain in STARS credit OP-7 Food and Beverage Purchasing where UW shows a point gap of 3.11, if the local food meets the certification standards associated with this credit. STARS does not include any credits relating directly to local food sourcing. Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA