Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Husky Green Awards 2022 Husky Green Awards 2022 Close Menu Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Join us to celebrate the 2022 Husky Green Awards! The Husky Green Awards ceremony will be June 6, 2022 at 3 p.m. in the Suzzallo Library Smith Room (room 324). The Husky Green Awards recognize individuals and groups across all University of Washington campuses who lead the way for sustainability at the University of Washington. This is the 13th year the awards have been awarded by the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee as part of the UW's Earth Day celebrations. The Husky Green Awards are given to students, faculty and staff from the Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses who show initiative, leadership and dedication. The 2022 recipients are: ASUW Student Food Cooperative student group The ASUW Student Food Coop is a group of students that are passionate about the environmental impact of food systems and work to educate the UW population. The Student Food Coop exemplifies how to eat consciously, nutritiously, and ethically. Through programs such as the twice-annual Humble Feast event they provide opportunities for students to partake in affordable, sustainable food options. They also offer small workshops, seasonal cookbooks and meetings to engage students and the community in discussions around food sustainability. UW Combined Fund Drive staff group Since assuming leadership of UW’s workplace giving campaign in February 2020, Program Manager Jolyn Mason and Workplace Giving Specialist Nicole Reeve-Parker have examined processes and adopted new strategies to reduce waste, be more efficient with resources and embrace sustainability. Over the past two years, the UWCFD has eliminated almost 72,000 pieces of promotional material, including flyers, postcards, one sheets, and bookmarks, and also largely eliminated the use of more than 100,000 pieces of printed forms, letters and envelopes by transitioning to digital. The UWCFD has also worked to highlight non-profits taking on sustainability challenges and partnered with other groups on campus around educational events. UW-IT Data Center Strategy and Operations Team staff group The UW-IT Data Center team continually strives to increase the efficiency of the data centers and underlying infrastructure it operates and maintains in meeting its responsibility to provide reliable space, power, and cooling to customers across campus. The UW Tower Data Center has achieved Energy Star Certification from the EPA every year since 2013, and is the only public university data center to achieve this certification (according to Energy Star). The Data Center team works with electrical, mechanical, and control system vendors to ensure that efficiency objectives are built into all operational, maintenance, and support processes. For example, the use of an evaporative cooling tower during most of the year eliminates the need to use more energy intensive mechanical cooling systems to cool the data center. In addition, automated control systems are used to monitor and control data center infrastructure and provide metrics that are employed to further tune these systems and increase efficiency on an ongoing basis. Elizabeth Hansen Assistant Professor, UW Medicine Dr. Hansen has been committed to sustainability initiatives since joining the faculty as a pediatric anesthesiologist in 2017. She founded the Seattle Children’s Perioperative Green Team, along with Drs. Sara Greenberg, Hannah Cockrel, Yuanting Zha, CRNA Kimberly Righter-Foss with support from Colleen Groll and Michael Bigelow. The Green Team has conducted a waste audit and educated staff regarding recycling in the operating rooms. Dr. Hansen has given multiple presentations on this topic to audiences within the anesthesiology department at Seattle Children’s Hospital and the University of Washington, as well as to the emergency department, nursing colleagues, and other organizations. Together with her anesthesia colleagues Drs. Daniel Low and Lynn Martin, she has started an initiative called Project SPRUCE (Saving our Planet by RedUcing Carbon Emissions). This project tracks the emissions of each anesthetic provided at Seattle Children's Main Hospital and Bellevue Surgery Center. These efforts have led to a more than 6-fold reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from anesthesia inhaled agents at the Laurelhurst campus, and a 9-fold reduction at the Bellevue Surgery Center since 2018. Jennifer Atkinson UW Bothell faculty Jennifer Atkinson’s work as a climate educator targets the mental health impacts and well-being of students and those in our communities. Eco-anxiety is ever present in many of our students, with many experiencing grief, fear, hopelessness, overwhelm, or “pre-traumatic stress” in response to our climate crisis. By focusing on the internal struggles of her students and podcast audience, Jennifer seeks to understand a facet of climate change that is not often acknowledged in higher education. Jennifer’s pioneering podcast "Facing It", along with her UW Bothell course on Climate Grief and Anxiety, have been featured nationwide and prompted students and other audiences to take the emotional dimensions of climate change seriously. In addition to teaching, Jennifer also writes articles and speaks publicly about eco-grief and emphasizes the importance of considering these impacts when addressing climate change strategies. Kurt Kung postdoctoral researcher Kurt Kung is a postdoctoral Bioengineering researcher of the Pollack Lab. He is also a driving force behind Project IF (Indoor Farm), a project exploring the feasibility of vertical farming on campus. Over the past four years, he has dedicated personal time to Project IF, creating a vertical farm pilot in Condon Hall, securing funding, recruiting more than 30 students to help operate the farm and connecting with faculties and groups. To date, more than 100 community members have visited the IF farm in person. Moreover, Project IF has generated more than 300 pounds of lettuce to date, and has donated more than 150 pounds to the U-District Foodbank. Project IF is also intended to be an example for other universities and groups to show the feasibility of indoor growing. Husky Green Legacy winner: Nancy Rottle faculty, College of Built Environments Nancy Rottle has been teaching and researching at the UW since 2001. A licensed landscape architect, her work centers upon design to create places that are ecologically healthy, culturally meaningful, and educationally and experientially resonant. Her scholarship, including the co-authored book Ecological Design, has focused on the application of theory and new practices to regenerate the health of urban and urbanizing environments. Professor Rottle founded and since 2006 has directed the UW’s Green Futures Research and Design Lab, which addresses questions and projects related to urban green infrastructure. Collaborative projects and publications include the use of waterfronts to treat and reuse stormwater; urban green infrastructure for city streets and college campuses; public space planning and design; pedestrian and active transport environments; green roofs and walls; public engagement to envision positive futures; and the role of green infrastructure in mitigating and adapting to climate change. She co-edited the 2008 special journal edition of Places Journal on Climate Change and Place, and researched this topic in New Zealand supported by a Senior Scholar Fulbright Fellowship. Professor Rottle has regularly taught courses that integrate water into the planning and design process, from watershed to site scales, integrating knowledge of urban water-based projects from around the world. With support from the Scan Design Foundation, she leads urban design study tours to Denmark and Sweden and collaborates with Gehl Architects of Copenhagen to teach interdisciplinary studios at the UW that merge considerations for ecological, economic, social and physical health. She mentors interns who work jointly with the GFL and Danish design firms to produce and disseminate planning and design guides for equitable, active public spaces, all made accessible via the GFL’s website. Serving as the UW’s Scan Design Endowed Chair in Built Environments for over a decade, she facilitated funding for scores of student exchanges between the UW and Danish universities. Nancy has also led term-long design studios in New Zealand that have focused on ecological, culturally inclusive and climate responsive post-earthquake recovery. Through the Green Futures Lab as well as design studios, she has empowered countless UW students to imagine what ecological integrity and livability may look like in urban spaces. She has been an advisor and champion for student projects funded by the Campus Sustainability Fund, including the Gould Hall Green Wall and Floating Wetlands projects. These projects engaged dozens of students in planning, designing, implementing, prototyping, researching, and maintaining the designed features. This hands-on learning has helped students gain practical knowledge while also providing educational infrastructure to UW for students to interact with and learn from in the long term. Husky Green Legacy winner: Warren Gold emeritus faculty, UW Bothell School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Warren Gold has been a member of the UW Bothell faculty since 1998, and was instrumental in creating UWB’s Environmental Science degree and the revision of that degree into Conservation and Restoration Science. He has developed and taught a wide range of engaging and challenging environmental courses, and mentored hundreds of students through those course experiences. He also helped found the UW Restoration Ecology Network (UW-REN), which was an outreach of the wetlands restoration on the UW Bothell campus that he helped guide through its successful early development. UW-REN brought together people from all three UW campuses in many different disciplines interested in ecological restoration. UW-REN created a structure for existing courses to engage students in hands-on restoration work in collaboration with community partners. Gold has served as co-director of UW-REN since its inception, and in those 21 years it has completed 166 projects with 905 students representing 31 different academic majors and worked with 50 different community partners from Whidbey Island south to the Nisqually River. Gold has gone above and beyond throughout his career in his dedication to students, making sure they have access to things like personal advice, equipment, transportation and opportunities needed to succeed. He has also been instrumental in advancing sustainability on the UW Bothell campus, including serving as Co-Chair of the Chancellor’s Advisory Committee for Environmental Sustainability (CACES) and as the Campus Wetland Advisor for 21 years, advocating for a UWB Sustainability Coordinator position and helping to create the UW Bothell Sustainability Action Plan. Honorable mention: Madison Bristol, graduate student, Evans School Darielle Horsey, staff, Study Abroad Marissa London, student, Green Greeks Allyson Long, staff, UW Bothell Tyler Matayoshi, graduate student, Health Administration Eric Yerxa, staff, UW Facilities Society for Ecological Restoration Native Plant Nursery, student group UW Records Management About the Husky Green Awards: The Husky Green Awards are sponsored by the UW Environmental Stewardship Committee (ESC) and are made possible by the 2008 Senior Class Gift for Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability. The awards are the only recognition program at the University which recognize a commitment to sustainability. Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA