Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Student Experience Sustainability Courses Sustainability Courses Close Menu Home Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Sustainability courses at the University of Washington explore environmental, economic, and/or social aspects of sustainability, addressing the ability for society to innovatively utilize, develop, and protect natural resources and ecosystems in a way that meets the current and future generations' needs. Sustainability focused courses examine one or more topics with regards to all three dimensions (environmental, economic, and social) of sustainability in depth, or analyze a broad range of topics using a sustainability lens. Whereas, sustainability related courses examine one or more topics with regards to at least one dimension of sustainability, or sustainability or the environment is a discrete element of the course description, but not necessarily the main focus. The following highlighted sustainability courses offered at UW Seattle provide an introduction to courses that are focused on and related to the environment or sustainability. To find more classes, see our suggested list of keywords to help with MyPlan searches. Attaining a Sustainable Society Building a sustainable future depends on restructuring the global economy, major shifts in human  reproductive behavior, and dramatic changes in values and lifestyles. Course number: ENVIR 439 Credits: 3 Read more Climate and Climate Change An introductory course for nonscience majors on climate and climate change. The class will be divided in three parts: Course number: ATM S 211 Credits: 5 Read more EarthGames Studio Students work in teams to create their own video games or interactive digital experience relating to climate change or other pressing environmental issues. Course number: ATM S 495 Credits: 2-6 Read more Eco-Capitalism Explores the idea of environmentalism and sustainability across societies. Course number: JSIS A 429 Jointly offered: SCAND 479 Credits: 5 Read more Energy and Environment Discusses diverse environmental issues around energy sources and uses and the importance of evaluating environmental challenges. Course number: ENVIR 341 Jointly offered: CHEM E 341 & M E 341 Credits: 3 Read more Environmental Innovation Practicum Students develop innovative solutions to real-world environmental problems. Course number: ENTRE 443 Jointly offered: ENVIR 495, ENTRE 543, ENGR 498 Credits: 2 Read more Environmental Norms in International Politics Explores development of international environmental consciousness from 1960s to present. Course number: SCAND 350 Jointly offered: ENVIR 360 & JSIS B 350. Credits: 5 Read more Introduction to Environmental Economics Introduces environmental and natural resource economics. Course number: ECON 235 Jointly offered: ESRM 235 and ENVIR 235 Credits: 5 Read more Introduction to Environmental Health Introduction to environmental health concepts. Course number: ENV H 111 Credits: 3 Read more Law, Justice, and the Environment Examines the role law plays in shaping environmental policy. Course number: GEOG 467 Jointly offered: LSJ 467 Credits: 5 Read more Literature and Discourse on the Environment Pays attention to verbal expression; forms and genres; and historical, cultural, and conceptual contexts of the natural environment. Course number: ENGL 365 Credits: 5 Read more Principles of Sustainability Overview of principles of sustainability, including discussion of current literature and presentations by practitioners, and methods for balancing social, economic, and ecological consequences of policies and actions. Course number: ESRM 300 Credits: 2 Read more Risk and Reward in Sustainable Development Focuses on the intersecton of green, high preforming buildings and the law. Course number: LAW E 534 Jointly offered: R E 559 Credits: 3 Read more Society and Sustainable Environments Introduces the application of social concepts and theories to understanding and managing urban, urbanizing, and wildland landscapes in a sustainable manner. Course number: ESRM 200 Credits: 5 Read more Sustainability Studio Exploration of definitions and critical concepts of sustainability and analysis of sustainability practices on the UW campus. Course number: ENVIR 480 Credits: 5 Read more Sustainability, Resilience, and Society Introduction to concepts of sustainability and resilience and their relevance to environment and society in the current Anthropocene era Course number: ANTH 378 Credits: 5 Read more Sustainability: Personal Choices, Broad Impacts An introduction to the frameworks and approaches to sustainability through exploration of the three pillars of sustainability. Course number: ENVIR 239 Credits: 3/5 Read more Home Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA