Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW "In Our Nature" Podcast "In Our Nature" Podcast Close Menu Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog UW Sustainability's "In Our Nature" podcast features the people working to make the University of Washington a leader in sustainability. More subscription links CSF Spotlight #2: Anaerobic Digester On this episode of CSF Spotlight, Fotima and Yahia talk to Aaron Flaster, the project lead for the Anaerobic Digester project and current Research Study Coordinator at UW. This project was funded twice in 2018 for a total of $45,000 and received a $5,000 class gift from the College of the Environment. On the podcast, Aaron talks about how working on a horse ranch inspired them to pursue this project, the struggles they had during the process, and how today they are focused on the sustainability of this project. CSF Spotlight #1: Meet the team! In the first episode of "CSF Spotlight," the Campus Sustainability Fund’s student staff members Fotima Ibrokhim (Outreach Coordinator) and Yahia Ali (Project Development Specialist) discuss their individual journeys to the CSF, what their personal experience has been with CSF, and how their views on sustainability has evolved through their experiences. Tune in for more episodes in the future to hear about CSF projects from the students who lead them, as well as hear from other people in the sustainability world at UW. Plastic Free July with UW Recycling Each year, millions of people around the globe take the Plastic Free July challenge and choose to refuse single-use plastics. UW Recycling was leading the charge this month to provide the UW community with resources, encouragement and tips to reduce plastic use. We talk with UW Recycling Manager Liz Gignilliat about why it's important to reduce plastic consumption, the state of plastic at UW and why increased recycling efforts isn't the answer to our plastic problem, followed by a discussion (starting at 15:10) with UW Recycling Program Coordinator Adam Fehn, who took a personal challenge to cut his plastic consumption for the month. Follow UW Recycling on Instagram or Facebook. UW Creative Communications Katy Folk-Way, Director of Creative Communications, and Steven Roberts, Assistant Director of Mailing, Safety and Building Services, join us. The discussion starts with information on how Creative Communications integrates sustainability into its printing and copying operations, and then we talk about how the Mailing Services team has moved toward delivering almost all campus mail via electric-assist cargo bikes instead of trucks. Learn more about Creative Communications. UW Green Greek Representative Program The University of Washington's Green Greek Representative Program works to engage UW fraternity and sororities on topics of sustainability. Members work on projects to improve sustainability in the Greek chapters as well as promoting sustainability in the community. On this podcast, Green Greek Director Shelby Carroll and Vice President of Membership Bibi Contreras discuss the Green Greeks program, some of the group's projects and how UW students can get involved. For more info on the Green Greek Representative Program, visit their Instagram. WOHESC plenary: "Campus Sustainability, Diversity & Inclusion" Students and executive leaders from Washington and Oregon shared perspectives on integrating social sustainability across academic systems in this opening plenary at the 2019 Washington & Oregon Higher Education Sustainability Conference (WOHESC), hosted by the University of Washington on February 26-27. For more information on WOHESC: wohesc.org/program/ Moderator: Terryl Ross | Assistant Dean of Diversity for College of the Environment, University of Washington Speakers: Jeanne Allen | Chair, Campus Sustainability Fund & Graduate Student Representative, Environmental Stewardship Committee, University of Washington Teri Fane | ASPCC Student Body President, Portland Community College Cascade Campus Angel Mandujano-Guevara | Graduate Student, Human Services Resource Center, Oregon State University Taylor McHolm | Program Director, Student Sustainability Center, University of Oregon Natasha Martin | Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion and Associate Professor at the School of Law, Seattle University WOHESC opening keynote by Dean Lisa Graumlich College of the Environment Dean Lisa Graumlich gave the opening keynote at the 2019 Washington & Oregon Higher Education Conference, hosted by the University of Washington. Episode 6 - UW Bothell sustainability coordinator Alexa Russo UW Bothell's sustainability coordinator Alexa Russo discusses sustainability features on the Bothell campus and ways the UWB community and others can get involved. Learn more about UW Bothell's sustainability efforts. Episode 5 - Beth Wheat Program on the Environment lecturer Beth Wheat owns and operates SkyRoot Farm, practicing regenerative agriculture on Whidbey Island. She is the recipient of a 2018 UW Husky Green Award and a 2010 Excellence in Teaching Award. On this podcast, she talks with UW Sustainability's Jayna Milan about regenerative agriculture, our food systems, and her personal experiences as a farmer and educator. Read more about Beth Wheat at her Whole U Faculty Spotlight. August 14, 2018 Episode 4 - Student business sustainability UW Foster School of Business students Sydney Solis (Net Impact) and Serena Allendorfer (ReThink) talk with UW Sustainability's Jayna Milan about the importance of corporate social responsibility, and the different UW student groups working on connecting sustainability and business. July 17, 2018 Episode 3 - Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) The University of Washington's Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) funds student-led sustainability projects at UW. The CSF has granted more than $2.2 million to over 100 projects since it started in 2010. This episode of the "In Our Nature" podcast features CSF coordinator Kyle McDermott. Learn more about the CSF: csf.uw.edu May 23, 2018 Episode 2 - ASUW Student Food Co-op The ASUW Student Food Cooperative supports access to healthy and affordable food for students. In this episode, we sat down with Co-Manager Tiara Adler and Co-op member,Emma D’Orazio to discuss how the ASUW Student Food Co-op operates and how students can get involved. Learn more about the Co-op: sfc.asuw.org May 4, 2018 Episode 1 - UW Sustainability The first podcast from UW Sustainability! UW Sustainability director Claudia Frere-Anderson, program specialist Toren Elste and communications coordinator Daimon Eklund give an overview of UW Sustainability's programs and resources for students, faculty and staff at the University of Washington. (originally released in September 2017) Home Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA