Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Husky Green Awards Husky Green Awards 2010 Husky Green Awards 2010 Close Menu Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners 2010 Nominees About the Husky Green Awards To celebrate Earth Day's 40th anniversary, the Environmental Stewardship Advisory Committee announced the winners of the University's first ever Husky Green Award. City of Seattle Councilman Mike O'Brien kicked off the award ceremony with an inspirational address to the students, reaffirming the importance of individual and grassroots efforts toward environmental stewardship. Provost Phyllis Wise also added her comments and praise for the important sustainability work happening on campus. Astronomy Professor and Faculty Senate Chairman Bruce Balick announced the winners. Award recipients and nominees are recognized for their demonstration of leadership, initiative and dedication to environmental stewardship and sustainability. Krysta Yousoufian Junior, Computer Science Krysta is the Associate Director of SEED (Students Expressing Environmental Dedication) and has been actively involved in development of composting program at UW. Acting as a catalyst for change, Krysta has strong leadership capabilities, and a long-standing dedication to sustainability. She has been described by her peers as an expert resource for all students on recycling and composting and a "shining personal example of the work she does.” Alan Wright Senior, Environmental Studies Alan is an active member of the Green Coalition and WashPIRG, and assisted with the drafting of the University's Climate Action Plan. Most recently Alan took a leadership role in the Campus Sustainability Fund student green fee initiative. He also has reached out to the broader community, touring the US in a biobus educating others on sustainability. Michael Meyering Project Manager, Housing and Food Services Mike has been a driving force behind UW’s composting program, and has provided continued support toward the University's Zero Waste campaign. He helped organize Coca-Cola’s compostable soda cup pilot project at UW and personally conducts waste audits through out campus. Claudia Christensen Purchasing Manager, Procurement Services As Purchasing Manager for Procurement Services, Claudia encouraged and guided Office Depot, Fisher Scientific and VWR in offering more sustainable products to UW purchasers and in highlighting such products in their catalogs. Claudia also leads Environmental Stewards green team. Visit Procurement Services' Green Purchasing website for information on green purchasing and how to green your office. UW Tower Green Team UW Tower Green Team Bethany Staelens, Education & Outreach, Syd Fredrickson, Conference Management, Cheryl Wheeler, Education & Outreach, and countless other volunteers. The Tower Green Team has been a continued leader in campus sustainability, creating the patio demonstration garden, implementing the Tower composting program, eliminating waste bins from workstations, and partnering with Full Circle Farms to have organic fruits and vegetables delivered to UW Tower staff. UW Farm Student Organization Beth Wheat, Biology Graduate Student, Brady Ryan, Senior Mathematics major, Jennifer Ruesink, Associate Professor of Biology, and many other student volunteers. Located on the Burke-Gilman trail near the botany greenhous, the UW Farm serves as an educational experience for students to learn hands-on about sustainable urban agriculture and eating locally. The farm is maintained by student volunteers and staff assistants. Learn more at the UW Farm's website. UW Tacoma Environmental Science Program UW Tacoma Environmental Science Program Jim Gawel, Associate Professor, Environmental Science. The Environmental Science Program has shown leadership, initiative and dedication through curriculum development, project design and implementation, public education and outreach, and active community organization and involvement. Learn more at the Environmental Program homepage. Campus Sustainability Fund Team Student Organization Justin Hellier, Graduate student, Evans School and School of Forest Resources, Alan Wright, Senior, Environmental Studies, David Corrado, Junior, Environmental Studies, Katie Stultz, Junior, Business Management, and many other student volunteers. The team lead the development, organization and leadership for the CSF Fund proposal, demonstrating clear focus and commitment. Learn more at the Campus Sustainability Fund website. Home Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners 2010 Nominees About the Husky Green Awards Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA