Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Definition of Sustainability Definition of Sustainability Close Menu Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY: At the University of Washington, we define sustainability as the capacity to create and maintain healthy, equitable and diverse communities and ecosystems. That capacity comprises 1) an understanding and respect for the interdependence of the atmosphere, the waters, the land, and all life on Earth, 2) a full recognition of legacy and on-going impacts of human activity, and 3) a commitment to cultivate collective wisdom and to deliberately act out of that understanding, respect and recognition. We want to hear from you This definition of sustainability was created in 2021-2022 using an iterative process that included students, faculty and staff from all three campuses. It is part of the work of the UW's Sustainability Action Plan. CLARIFICATIONS By “we,” we mean the entire UW community comprising students, staff, faculty, and others who choose to participate in this endeavor with us. By “communities and ecosystems,” we refer to connected groups of not only people, but also other living and non-living entities such as landscapes. We recognize that these communities are connected through multiple social and environmental systems. By “healthy,” we mean experiencing well-being and sound functioning at all levels from the individual, to neighborhoods, nations, populations and ecosystems. By “diverse,” we refer to the variation in habitats and species as well as cultures, ideas and individual expression that makes us resilient and protect us from the fragility of uniformity and homogeneity. By “equitable,” we mean rooted in a commitment to social and environmental justice. We include this term because we recognize the inextricable link between equity and sustainability. “an understanding and respect for the interdependence of the atmosphere, the waters, the land, and all life on Earth” means recognizing the far-reaching impacts of our actions. We include “a full recognition of legacy and on-going impacts of human activity” because we recognize the importance of acknowledge and addressing the decisions and actions of individuals and groups in the past to fully inform actions in the present. The final phrase of the definition: “a commitment to cultivate collective wisdom and to deliberately act out of that understanding, respect and recognition,” contains two key concepts. One is that achieving sustainability requires deliberate action. The other is that this action needs to come from a depth of wisdom that transcends the limitations of individual perspectives. As a university, we bring together insights from across a wide spectrum of perspectives. We are scientists, policy experts, philosophers, business experts, and health experts. We are grounded in history. We are attuned to diverse cultures and wisdom traditions. We are practitioners in the arts, medicine, law, environmental science, engineering, architecture, design, management, communications, and more. We have skills and experiences necessary to maintain and operate physical infrastructure, to manage budgets and programs, to facilitate research, to acquire goods and services, to teach, to manage information and technologies. We've come to this University from places far and near, we represent multiple generations, genders, cultures, abilities, languages, spiritual traditions, experiences of power, and experiences of oppression. Acting upon the wisdom that emerges when we bring all of our perspectives into our decision-making is essential to achieve sustainability and to heal the harm caused by ignoring or undervaluing some of our perspectives (particularly the perspectives of those of us who are black, indigenous or people of color). PURPOSE: We intend to use the definition in the following ways: As a tool for engagement This definition is crafted to stimulate thoughtful discussion as we use it to make decisions about how to be more sustainable. For example, our intention is for people to look at a sustainability-related action such as electrifying our fleet, and ask how this work supports healthy, equitable and diverse communities. As a tool for deepening our individual understanding This definition is crafted to push us to challenge, and deepen our individual understanding of sustainability. As a tool for developing common understanding Having a “UW definition of sustainability” will enable us to create alignment as we do this work. If we disagree, for example, about whether a policy or practice is sustainable, we can use the definition to ground that conversation. As a tool for measuring progress toward sustainability goals We will use this definition to enable us to recognize progress toward our stated goals. Sustainability is too complex to measure in simple ways, but this definition does give us parameters to include in our efforts to measure progress (e.g. sound functioning) and considerations for ensuring that our efforts to measure inherently subjective concepts such as “well-being” are grounded in multiple perspectives. As a tool for identifying research and coursework that is “sustainability-related” We will use this definition to answer questions like “is every course about the natural world sustainability-related?” “When is a course about economics sustainability-related?” "When is research about social history sustainability-related?" PROCESS: This definition of sustainability was created in 2021 from the insights, ideas, and critiques provided by students, staff and faculty at the University (below is a description of the process we undertook. A more detailed description can be found here). It will be revisited each year and may change as we learn and grow. I. Background work Identified existing definitions and literature on defining sustainability Identified themes within this literature and definitions Nature of “sustainability” Facets of sustainability Natural world Relationships Role of ethics/responsibility Goals of sustainability Identified goals for the definition Create Common Understanding Deepen Our Understanding Tool to Measure Progress Guide to define “sustainability-related” Tool for engagement II. Gathering input We created an exercise to elicit feedback about what a UW definition should look like based upon the themes we identified in the first step, and presented this to the following groups: January 12 2021: Core Working Group February 16 2021: Environmental Stewardship Committee (ESC) February 24 2021: Campus Sustainability Fund (CSF) February 25 2021: Faculty advisory group March 8 2021: Students in ENVIR 439 Attaining A Sustainable Society Created summaries from each group III Drafted a definition Created a draft definition modeled after the Community Engagement definition then elicited feedback on the draft definition from: April 6 2021: Bothell Sustainability Committee April 8 2021: Students in ENVIR 439 Just Sustainability, Deep Sustainability IV Endorsement March 2 2022: Presented to the Board of Deans and Chancellors. Several members provided input for final changes. April 5 2022: Definition endorsed by President Ana Mari Cauce Home Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA