Skip to main content Current Site All the UW MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington UW Surplus UW Facilities Quick Links Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan Information portal Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Sustainability Plan Dashboard In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Campus Sustainability Month Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Posters and Infographics Social media UW Sustainability Menu Home Home What can I do? Sustainable Spaces Green Office Program Green Laboratory Certification Take the Pledge Calculate Your Commute Donate Donate to the Husky Green Fund Donate to the VOLT Fund Alumni for Climate Action Reduce paper Green Your Event Take the Sustainable Choices Survey Sustainability at UW Sustainability Plan I. Double student, staff, and faculty sustainability engagement by 2024 II. One UW-wide sustainability framework by 2022 III. Double sustainability-oriented research projects by 2025 IV. Comprehensive equitable purchasing targets by 2022 V. 5% lower emissions from professional travel by 2025 VI. 35% of food is from local sources by 2025 VII. 6% decrease in single-occupancy commuting rate per campus by 2028 VIII. 15% lower energy usage intensity by 2025 IX. 10% less solid waste by 2025 X. 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 Plan dashboard Acknowledgements Climate Action Plan Definition of Sustainability Information portal Buildings Transportation Energy Food Greenhouse Gases Waste Water Workplace Awards Sustainability Data Dashboard Sustainability Snapshots News Environmental Stewardship Committee Executive Order Greening Health Sciences Initiative Policy Statement Meetings Reports Members Green Building Standards Husky Green Awards 2021 Winners 2020 winners 2019 winners 2018 winners 2017 winners 2016 winners 2015 Winners 2014 Winners 2013 Winners 2012 Winners 2011 Winners 2010 Winners About the Husky Green Awards Maps and Campus History Sustainability Map UW Environmental History Tour Walking Tour Century of Sustainability "In Our Nature" Podcast West Campus Utility Plant Content Guide Sustainability Plan Dashboard Target I: Sustainability Engagement Target II: Sustainability Framework Target III: Sustainability research Target IV: Equitable purchasing Target V: Professional travel Target VI: Food Target VII: Transportation Target VIII: Energy Target IX: Waste Target X: Greenhouse gas emissions In Our Nature Blog Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes Course List Find More Curriculum Committee EcoReps Green Dawgs student group certification Green Husky Coalition Green Seed Fund 2014-2015 Projects 2013-2014 Projects About Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Living Lab Exhibit Student Groups Events Event Calendar Earth Day Earth Month events Decarbonization at UW Past Earth Days Campus Sustainability Month 2019 Sustainability Fair Equity & Sustainability Event Series Sustainability Stories About Us Our Team Sqwatch UW Sustainability Brand Media Center Newsletters Video Vault Media Toolkit Climate of Change Posters and Infographics Building Resources Visualizations Social media Student Experience Sustainability Student Groups Sustainability Student Groups Close Menu Home Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups There are dozens of student groups dedicated to sustainability and the environment at the University of Washington. We have compiled a list of active groups and contact information below. To add your group to our page, email sustainability@uw.edu. Featured groups UW EcoReps Connecting students with sustainability projects. Learn more UW Farm Opportunities for hands-on agricultural learning at UW. Learn more Student Food Co-op The ASUW Food Co-op promotes food justice and access. Learn more SEED Sustainability club for students living in residence halls. Learn more UW Solar Students working to increase and promote solar power at UW. Learn more SER UW Volunteer with the Society for Ecological Restoration. Learn more Full list of sustainability student groups Below is a list of active environment or sustainability related student groups at the University of Washington. For information on non-environmentally related student groups, see the RSO Directory. Student Group Purpose Website Bioengineers Without Borders Engineering. Low cost. Sustainable. Medical. Technologies. Developing professional & design experience. No borders. Website Bridges to Health The Bridges to Health Patient Advocacy Center was created in 2008 with the intention of achieving three goals: 1) increasing public awareness and knowledge regarding basic health and preventative medicine via community engagement events 2) encouraging patients to become actively involved in their health decisions and providing patients with the health literacy and skills to do so and 3) expanding access to health services in medically underserved and high-risk populations. Website Campus Sustainability Fund Our goal is to create a sustainable campus and foster an environmentally conscious culture by funding student-led projects that lessen the University of Washington's environmental impact. Website Dirty Dozen Farm Club A student organization associated with and interested in the health and community of the UW Farm, and a space for students interested in gardening, urban agriculture and food systems in general to come together and share ideas about these topics and take action in these fields. Environmental Law Society It is the purpose of the Environmental Law Society to enhance its members' awareness of environmental issues, develop experience with environmental law and practice, and build connections to the relevant legal community. Website Environmental Policy Student Association Dedicated to centering justice and intersectionality at the foundation of environmental policy. EPSA empowers UW undergrads through knowledge sharing and professional development by connecting peers with one another and to experts in the field. EcoReps at the University of Washington EcoReps is a student-run organization that works with our peers, faculty, and staff to make the University of Washington a more sustainable place. By aiding in the development of sustainable projects on campus, EcoReps will work in alignment with the UW Environmental Policy statement and the Climate Action Plan goals to decrease UW's environmental impact. Website Engineers Without Borders To help disadvantaged communities improve their quality of life through the implementation of environmentally and economically sustainable engineering solutions. Website Global Medical Brigades at UW Our mission is to empower volunteers to facilitate sustainability solutions in under-resourced communities. Website Global Rehabilitation Organization at Washington Our goal as an organization is to provide an avenue for students to actively work towards a healthier, more accessible, better-supported global community. Website Global Renewable Infrastructure Development Working to help communities achieve the equitable implementation of solar power. Website Global Sustainability Initiative Promote sustainability by connecting UW students with clean energy start-up companies. Green Evans Connect graduate students interested in environmental issues within the Evans School and across campus, Provide an arena for students to create lasting networks, which will help further students’ future professional goals, focus on environmental public policy and problem solving occurring locally and globally, enhance students’ understanding and participation in the environmental policy process, and increase all Evans School students’ knowledge of environmental issues through events, panel discussions and social activities. Green Greek Representative Program Through impactful action and innovative strategies, the GGRP has become a national leader for the sustainability movement on college campuses. HuskyADAPT Our unique community aims to initiate conversations regarding accessibility and ignite change through engineering design. Website Institutional Climate Action UW Chapter ICA is a climate justice divestment coalition of Washington State higher education institutions organizing for divestment from fossil fuel companies. Website Net Impact Net Impact's mission is business for the greater good. We are a the Foster MBA chapter of a national organization. This group is for MBAs but other programs can come to our events (find out about them through our newsletters). We are hoping to start an undergrad chapter too. Website Partners in Health Engage of UW Partners In Health Engage (PIHE) is building the right to health movement by recruiting and empowering teams of dedicated volunteer community organizers. Website Partnership for Community & Diversity Partnership for Community & Diversity (PCD) is a group of graduate students committed to promoting diversity and social justice at the Evans School. Project IF Project IF is an indoor farming organization aimed at spreading awareness to sustainable alternatives to traditional, soil-based agriculture. We have our own hydroponics farm and harvest over 50 lettuce plants a week. We hope to allow students to get hands-on experience with different farming technologies and learn the process of creating your own indoor farm. Website Re-Think Re Think is a registered student organization at the University of Washington that is working to change the way we function on a global level. We will increase awareness and education on all components of the human impact on the environment and create feasible solutions to redesign our progressing society. We will break the mold of the typical reduce, re-use, recycle model by transforming the way we think as a whole. We are proposing an industrial re-evolution. Sierra Club at UW The purpose of Sierra Club at UW is to engage with local policymakers to address the Climate Crisis while enjoying and exploring our natural environment. Huskylink Society for Ecological Restoration - UW Chapter To create a community for networking among UW and regional restoration students, researchers, practitioners, and other organizations and to share information and job/research opportunities related to restoration ecology. Website Student Association for Green Environments (SAGE) To spread awareness for environmental issues on and off campus and to promote events for greener, sustainable environment. We are committed to community engagement and education, and creating professional opportunities. Student Environmental Health Association To promote awareness of the far-reaching impacts of the environment on human health and create networking opportunities for the members in the professional field of environmental health. Website ASUW Student Food Cooperative A group of students concerned about the environmental, social, economic, and health impacts of our agro-food system. Website Students Expressing Environmental Dedication (SEED) SEED encourages environmentally sound practices in the residence halls and serves to raise awareness about environmental issues that affect the residential community. Website Students in Clean Energy Students in Clean Energy (SCE) is a student-led organization that facilitates inclusive opportunities for UW students to meet with clean energy professionals, and improves access to resources that help students make career decisions and secure jobs. Website Supplier Diversity Program at UW Supplier Diversity is the proactive business program which encourages the use of minority-owned, women-owned, veteran-owned, LGBT-owned, service disabled veteran owned, historically underutilized business, and SBA-Defined small business vendors as suppliers. Website The Graduate Chapter of Society of Women Engineers at University of Washington This section of SWE is geared toward the success of female graduate students in science and engineering. Website Washington Journal of Environmental Law and Policy The Washington Journal of Environmental Law and Policy seeks to publish leading scholarship and analysis of the domestic and international laws governing human interactions with the natural world. Website UW Bothell Sustainability Club We engage in all sorts of activities related to sustainability on-campus and in the community. UW Solar An interdisciplinary team of students at the University of Washington in conversation with the UW Housing & Food Services regarding the development of a solar installation with accompanying Industrial Control Systems on buildings at the UW campus, and are engaged in providing effective outreach to students about the benefits of smart solar investments. Website WashPIRG An organization dedicated to facing up to society's big problems, taking action, and winning concrete changes that improve the quality of our lives. Website Wildlife Society Student Chapter at the University of Washington Promote the conservation of wildlife species and the ecosystems that sustain them; provide members with an understanding of wildlife management, wildlife biology, and conservation biology. Website Home Student Experience Campus Sustainability Fund Sustainability Classes EcoReps Green Seed Fund UW as Living Laboratory Student Groups Connect with us: TwitterFacebookInstagramYoutubeFlickr Sustainability Action Plan Newsletter Signup University of Washington Be boundless UW Facilities Jobs Accessibility Privacy Terms Employee Portal © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA