Jump to navigation About Our House History, Coat of Arms & Namesake Signature Programs Darkroom Café Diversity Discourse across the Disciplines Discussion Series Gregory Transfer Community Connect with Gregory Get Involved People House Staff Info Center Program Communities Modern Languages Program (MLP) Film Culture Program (FCP) Gregory Academic Credit Options Academic Programming Dinner with Gregory Joanne T Lucid Award College Houses Research Fellowships Policies & Facilities House Policies Poster and Flyering Policies Facilities Overview Cooking & Kitchen Community Space Guidelines Room Reservations Room Reservation Calendar Room Reservation Policy Room Selection Upperclass Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Gregory FAQs Gregory Room Information Getting Help House Office Resources in the College Houses Emergency Resources Email Us Housing & Conference Services Public Safety Facilities Services Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Student Health Penn's Women's Center Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page Front About The Photo Gregory consistently earns one of the highest rates of student satisfaction among Penn’s College Houses; we also rank very high for return rates for students. We have long hosted Penn's residential language programs, which are some of the most successful academic programs at the University. The House sponsors a number of social activities from weekly brunches to Bring Your Own Mug night to karaoke. About The Photo Gregory's Film Culture Program, dedicated to movie-lovers of all sorts, was founded in 2003 and in 2016 received a splendid new Cinema Lounge to showcase its non-stop schedule of screenings and discussions. The program averages about 150 screenings a year, generally at least five a week, ranging from art house classics to big-budget epics to indie gems, all followed by optional discussion from our staff. About The Photo Gregory begins each year with a BBQ and volleyball on “the beach,” the field between Van Pelt and the Class of 1925. The BBQ is run by both RAs/GAs and the Manager staff, and is open to freshman through senior residents, as Gregory is truly an all-year College House. About The Photo Gregory College House resident Sneha Shashikumar shows off her newly renovated room the Class of '25 -- the first of the two buldings that make up the House to be renovated. Photo by Bryan Karl Lathrop. WELCOME TO GREGORY Welcome to Gregory, where residents believe that a college house should be more than just a place to study for your Econ 001 midterm, sleep in a one-bedroom, and grab the occasional free slice of pizza. Although the House does provide all that, it is also a place where you can explore new things and feel a real sense of community. For a start, Gregory celebrates diversity through its Modern Languages Program and cinema through the Film Culture series. But even if German leaves you tongue-tied and the Oscars give you a headache, you will still be welcomed to Sunday brunches, study breaks, and weekly BYOM hot chocolate nights with open arms. With a supportive network of GAs, RAs and dynamic student staff, there's always something going on and someone to talk to - this is a house that's got your back. So try a new French phrase in the mosaic-festooned Greenhouse, engage in a Star Wars vs. Star Trek debate in the Film Lounge, or simply laugh until you can't breathe in the piano lounge when you're supposed to be studying - this is a House that will embrace you. Visit for a while, or stay four years. Either way, we hope you'll feel at home here. --Vicky Sakr ‘06, Gregory Alumni Society Chair and Lucid Award Winner 2006 Gregory Music! Check out these playlists from Spotify and Apple Music if you're in the mood to listen to something new! SPOTIFY Lofi Study Vibes Intense Studying City Street Beats Music for Film Buffs Jazz Muted Jazz Calm & Classic Rock n Roll All Things Millennial Spotify UPENN Faculty Director Lisa's Social Justice Reggae Film Culture Manager Michael's Songs! APPLE MUSIC Hip Hop (Clean) Dance Like No One is Watching Commuter Vibes Sad Face Today's Hits Country Study Songs The 90s Cool Jazz One Hit Wonders About Our House History, Coat of Arms & Namesake Signature Programs Darkroom Café Diversity Discourse across the Disciplines Discussion Series Gregory Transfer Community Connect with Gregory Get Involved People House Staff Info Center Program Communities Modern Languages Program (MLP) Film Culture Program (FCP) Gregory Academic Credit Options Academic Programming Dinner with Gregory Joanne T Lucid Award College Houses Research Fellowships Policies & Facilities House Policies Poster and Flyering Policies Facilities Overview Cooking & Kitchen Community Space Guidelines Room Reservations Room Reservation Calendar Room Reservation Policy Room Selection Upperclass Room Selection Incoming First-Year Students Room Rates & Policies Room Layouts Gregory FAQs Gregory Room Information Getting Help House Office Resources in the College Houses Emergency Resources Email Us Housing & Conference Services Public Safety Facilities Services Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Student Health Penn's Women's Center Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Gregory Music! CAPS at Penn Film Culture Gregory College House Office Phone (215) 573-5171 / (215) 573 -5303 FAX In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact gregory@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Monday-Friday: 8:45 AM - 4:45 PM Saturday & Sunday: Closed House Address 107 Van Pelt Manor 3909 Spruce Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Class of '25 3941 Irving Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help