Arts NC State Buy Tickets Visit Facilities Support the Arts News Gregg Museum of Art & Design MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Exhibitions Exhibition Overview Eric Serritella – Sharing Spaces Frank Lee Craig – Near Distance Martha Strawn Photographs – Across the Threshold of INDIA Virtual Exhibitions Featured Catalogues Collections About Our Collections Online Collections Exhibits Search Our Online Catalog Education Education Overview Internships Activities – Crafts and More Visit the Gregg’s YouTube Channel Programs Lectures, Films, Events Visit As you visit the galleries during this time… Planning Your Visit Accessibility Directions & Parking About Us Mission About the Gregg About the Gregg Facility History and Nostalgia Contact Us Gregg Museum Staff Contact Us The Gregg sparks creativity and encourages exploration Virtual Visits How To Visit Us Exhibitions Programs Upcoming Events Jun 16 Thursday · 6:00 PM Tai Chi in the Garden News January 11, 2022 | Feature, News Provocative Truths Writer Bridgette Lacy explores the “Crossed Kalunga” exhibition currently open at the Gregg Museum. June 9, 2021 | News YouTube launch – Fantastic Fans: The Collection of Emma Hanford Smith. Visit the Gregg’s YouTube channel for a “show and tell” of this unique collection! June 9, 2021 | Feature, News Who needs the talkies? Starting May 25 join the Gregg for a tribute and celebration of the silent film. Free screenings all summer! June 9, 2021 | Feature, News Two New Exhibitions of the Collection Works of Chris Hondros and Will Henry Stevens from the permanent collection, now on display. First time visitor? Explore the Gregg with PBS NC’s Julia Carpenter Video courtesy of NC Weekend, PBC NC. All Rights Reserved. Gregg Museum of Art & Design 1903 Hillsborough Street Raleigh, NC 27607 Mailing Address: Campus Box 7330 Raleigh, NC 27695-7330 gregg@ncsu.edu 919.515.3503 Facebook Twitter Instagram Pinterest Email Crafts Center Dance Program Gregg Museum of Art & Design Music Department NC State Live Ticket Central University Theatre About the Gregg Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Site Index Search for: Subscribe to Our Newsletter © 2022 Gregg Museum of Art & Design | Log in