Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT | HARVARD.EDU The Growth Lab Research Academic Research Policy Research Tools Atlas of Economic Complexity Metroverse Viz Hub Publications Repository Engage Teaching Events Subscribe News & Media News Podcasts Videos Blog About People Donors Jobs Contact Search Why are many places still excluded from the modern economy? What can these societies do to attain levels of human comfort that we know are achievable? These are the questions that animate the work at the Growth Lab. At the Growth Lab, we push the frontiers of economic growth and development policy research, collaborate with policymakers to design actions, and share our insights through teaching, tools and publications, in the pursuit of inclusive prosperity. Research 'Smart Sanctioning' Russian Oil and Gas As the war in Ukraine continues, Russia’s oil and gas exports remain an important lifeline. With the EU buying 75% of Russian gas exports and 50% of Russian oil exports, European governments are under increased pressure to scale up their energy sanctions. In this new research paper, Ricardo Hausmann, Ulrich Schetter, et al, explain why an import tariff, not an embargo, could be the most efficient way to sanction Russian energy. Read the Paper Read the Science e-Letter Spotlight Growth Co-Lab at LSE The Growth Lab and the London School of Economics School of Public Policy have formed a new research collaboration to combine the expertise and reach of two of the world's leading academic research institutions. Explore the Co-Lab Watch Launch Event How We Work Academic Research Our wide range of research falls into three categories – economic transformation, knowledge and technology diffusion, and the coordination of knowhow – and draws on multiple disciplines. Policy Research Through country policy engagements, we employ and test various research approaches, tailored to a country, region, or city's specific constraints, opportunities, and capacity. Digital Tools We translate research and thoughts into web applications and interactive storytelling, all made publicly available and used by a global community of policymakers, scholars, investors, and journalists. Teaching We integrate research insights into master's and doctoral degree curricula at Harvard Kennedy School and executive education curricula for senior economists and policymakers. Media & Outreach We engage through seminars, special events, internships, podcsts, op-eds and social media. Publications We diffuse insights through working papers, peer-reviewed journals, books, reports, policy briefs, etc. Where We Work new map embed code Impact & Reach in 2021 12 Country-Specific Projects 24 Publications 127 Executive Education Participants 52 Seminars & Talks Center for International Development at Harvard University 79 JFK St. | Cambridge, MA 02138 growthlab_cid@hks.harvard.edu Subscribe CTA Code Subscribe CSS Styles code a7deaf9d5faca5a85c535d3db02b4a1e Large Image JS Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement