Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Grueber Lab Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Publications News People Research Projects Gallery Resources Development of somatosensory circuitry Organization and function of proprioceptive systems Internal sensory systems Generation of a versatile Gal4 resource Grueber Lab Home Welcome to the Grueber lab Investigating the molecular control of neuronal circuit assembly, maintenance, and function research projects Active Research Projects Building neurons and circuits Dendrites and axons show extraordinarily diverse forms, with important implications for nervous system wiring and neuronal function. Our lab is interested in how neurons acquire their morphology and how this organization underlies circuit function. To approach this problem, we use molecular, genetic, anatomical, and behavioral approaches to identify the mechanisms that sculpt somatosensory circuits during development. Development of somatosensory circuitry How are dendritic territories and axon targets established? How do cell-cell interactions determine these morphologies? Featured Publication Integrins protect sensory neurons in models of paclitaxel-induced peripheral sensory neuropathy Shin GJ Pero ME Hammond LA Burgos A Kumar A Galindo SE Lucas T Bartolini F Grueber WB PubMed Characterization of proprioceptive system dynamics in behaving Drosophila larvae using high-speed volumetric microscopy Vaadia R* Li W* Voleti V Singhania A Hillman EMC Grueber WB PubMed News November 15, 2021 Our GFP trap screen and characterization of Basigin function in dendrites is published Congrats to Brikha and the grad students and technicians who supported this screen and mutant analysis. May 26, 2021 Watch the Zuckerman Institute animation on Grace's chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy study. Great work Grace and ZI animation team! April 13, 2021 Former undergraduate Brooke Boisvert awarded a Fulbright to study in Vienna Congratulations Brooke! Columbia Affiliations Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics Department of Neuroscience Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute Columbia Translational Neuroscience Initiative Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior Graduate Program in Biological Sciences Integrated Program in Cellular, Molecular, and Biomedical Studies Columbia MD-PhD program Jerome L. Greene Science Center3227 Broadway, L9-007 · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1025 (lab) Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close