Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Financial Support Financial Support FAQs Frequently Asked Questions for Master’s and PhD Students Financial How long does it take to earn a PhD or master’s degree? Time to degree for PhD programs varies by department and master’s degrees generally take one to two years, depending on the program. Contact your program of interest to learn the average time to degree. What funding is offered to students? Visit Funding and Aid for information on funding support. Who is my financial aid officer? All GSAS programs have a designated financial aid officer, who can provide the information you need to make informed decisions regarding your financial support. I have a question about my student account? Contact your financial aid officer with questions about your student account. I have a credit balance on my student account, how do I get a refund? If you have a credit balance on your student account, contact your financial aid officer for assistance in obtaining a refund. Whom should I contact with questions about work study or loan paperwork? Contact your financial aid officer for assistance with work study or loan paperwork. My spouse or child is a GSAS student. Whom can I speak with about a financial aid question? Due to confidentiality issues, financial aid staff are unable to discuss questions about GSAS funding or academic status with anyone other than the student. Additional information about Harvard’s policies concerning the privacy of student records is available from the Registrar’s Office. Fellowships Who can help me with questions about the Foreign Languages and Area Studies Fellowship (FLAS) Fellowship? The Foreign Languages and Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowships promote foreign language competence and international world area knowledge by ensuring the continuance of area expertise in a variety of fields, including academe. If you have questions about the fellowship, you can email the FLAS Fellowship coordinator. Who can help me with questions about an NSF fellowship? Contact your financial aid officer with questions about NSF fellowships. When is my department’s internal deadline? Departments set their own internal deadlines for GSAS/Harvard fellowships requiring departmental ranking, which are earlier than the GSAS's deadlines. These fellowships include: Kennedy, Knox, Sheldon, and Lurcy Traveling Fellowships, GSAS Summer Tuition Fellowship, GSAS Summer Predissertation Fellowship, and the GSAS Merit/Term-Time Research Awards. Please speak with your department administrator to determine your department’s specific internal deadline. Why do I need to submit my Fulbright applications (IIE and DDRA) so early? GSAS is responsible for Harvard’s Fulbright application package and sets an earlier deadline to ensure that all applications are submitted by the Fulbright deadline. I want to apply to a certain fellowship, but the requirements state that Harvard can only nominate one student. How do I apply? The Office of the Vice Provost for Research (OVPR) handles all fellowship nominations and competitions that have a limited number of applications per institution. Search the OVPR database for more information on the fellowship you are interested in or, if it does not appear in the database, email Autumn Bennett for assistance. When will I hear about my fellowship applications? GSAS communicates most results by the middle of April; students applying for dissertation completion fellowships will be notified by the end of April or beginning of May. How do I know when my faculty member has submitted a letter of recommendation? You may check the status of your references in CARAT and the two Fulbright (IIE and DDRA) application portals; in CARAT references have a green check next to them when submitted and a construction triangle when not. Share This Contact Info Office of Financial Aid gsasfinaid@fas.harvard.edu Questions about fellowships? The Fellowships Office and the Center for Writing and Communicating Ideas have merged to form the Fellowships & Writing Center. Students with questions about finding fellowship support should email gsas-fellowships@fas.harvard.edu, while students looking for help with writing a fellowship proposal should visit the Fellowships & Writing Center. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College