Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search Health Policy The Harvard PhD Program in Health Policy trains students for research and teaching careers in health policy. The interdisciplinary and interfaculty nature of the program results from the philosophy that most graduates will carry out much of their research as part of multidisciplinary research teams rather than as isolated scholars. For this reason, the program trains students in the specialized skills of a single discipline, but also develops their ability to understand the conceptual frameworks contributed to the field by researchers from other disciplines. Students specialize in one of five concentrations: decision sciences; economics; management; methods for policy research; or political analysis. The program involves six Harvard University Faculties—the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard Business School, Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard Law School, Harvard Medical School, and Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health—which provides students with access to more than 100 faculty members, and students are able to take classes throughout the University. Students in the Harvard PhD Program in Health Policy are enrolled in and receive a PhD from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, even though they may work with faculty throughout the University. Concentrations Students choose a concentration and meet specific curriculum requirements in one of five disciplines: Decision Sciences, Economics, Management, Methods for Policy Research, and Political Analysis. Policy Areas In addition to choosing a concentration, students specialize in one of four areas of policy interest: Global Health, Health Care Services, Mental Health, and Public Health. Admissions Requirements All applicants must apply to a specific concentration of the program and must indicate this choice in their statement of purpose. Up to two concentration areas may be specified. Additionally, applicants should indicate policy areas that are of interest. Applications are reviewed by faculty from the relevant concentration and by a general admissions committee, which is comprised of faculty from multiple concentrations. All applicants to the PhD Program in Health Policy must include the following in the application: Statement of Purpose that includes the concentration(s) and policy area(s) of interest 3 letters of recommendation Official GRE general test or GMAT scores (GRE scores are preferred) Official TOEFL IBT or IELTS scores (if necessary) Official transcripts for all college/university degrees and courses CV Fall term grades should be sent when available if attending school while applying to the program (prospective students may add this information to the Fall Grade Report, available in the GSAS Applicant Portal, after they have submitted their application). Those interested in earning an MD/PhD in Health Policy apply through the American Medical College Application Service. Once enrolled, MD/PhD students submit application materials to GSAS prior to beginning their PhD studies. For the coordinated JD/PhD, applicants must apply separately to each program and indicate in the application to the PhD Program in Health Policy that a concurrent application has been submitted to Harvard Law School. Consult the Harvard PhD Program in Health Policy for answers to FAQs and GSAS Policies. Theses & DissertationsTheses & Dissertations for Health Policy Health Policy Faculty See list of Health Policy faculty How to Apply Special Requirements GRE General: Required (or GMAT) Application deadline December 15, 2021 Deadline 5 p.m. Eastern Time Degrees Offered Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Areas of Study Decision Sciences Economics Management Methods for Policy Research Political Analysis Contact Health Policy Website Colleen Yout Assistant Director 617-495-1357 Send Email Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College