Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Dissertations A Guide to Preparing and Submitting Your Dissertation The dissertation is the capstone project for PhD students. It is perhaps the most important and far-reaching undertaking in the entire doctoral program, having an impact that extends well beyond graduate studies. Requirements and Deadlines Every PhD candidate is required to successfully complete and submit a dissertation to qualify for degree conferral. Since each department maintains specific requirements for the content and evaluation of the dissertation, you should review your department's guidelines prior to beginning the process. The GSAS policy page on Dissertations provides general information on formatting, submission, and publishing and distribution options. Students who do not follow the formatting specifications noted in this publication will not be eligible for conferral of their degree and will need to apply for the next available degree period after corrections are made. Degrees are awarded in November, March, and May. Dissertation submission deadlines are noted in the Degree Calendar section of GSAS Policies. Students submit their dissertations through ProQuest ETD, Harvard’s electronic thesis and dissertation submission system. Publishing Options and Embargoes Students are given complete control over the accessibility of their work. Upon final approval, the dissertation becomes part of multiple Harvard and non-Harvard downstream systems based on the permissions and publishing options selected during the ProQuest ETD submission process. Consult Publishing Options for more information. An electronic copy of the dissertation is added to Digital Access to Scholarship at Harvard (DASH), the open-access repository of scholarship produced by members of the Harvard community. Dissertations are also deposited with ProQuest’s databases and become accessible to subscribers of ProQuest Dissertation & Theses Global. If necessary, students may request to delay the release of (“embargo”) their work when submitting their dissertation to ProQuest ETD. If students would like to request a delayed release of their dissertation of longer than 2 years, they will be prompted to upload a signed document to the “Administrative Documents” section of ProQuest ETD, showing Director of Graduate Study approval of this request. If students do not have a document when submitting their dissertation they will be asked to have the DGS email the Registrar's Office, acknowledging approval of the delayed release request. Embargo requests apply to both DASH and ProQuest. Help with the Dissertation Students can find support with planning and preparing to write the dissertation from their academic advisors and programs. Additional resources and assistance with dissertation completion fellowships are available through the GSAS Fellowships & Writing Center (FWC). Related Resources Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. GSAS Policies GSAS Policies, previously known as the GSAS Student Handbook describe, the policies and procedures that apply to students enrolled in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Share This Contact Info Policy Questions GSAS Office of Student Affairs 617-495-1814 studaff@fas.harvard.edu Questions about ProQuest ETD 617-495-1543 FAS Registrar’s Office Questions about embargoes or DASH Office of Scholarly Communication 617-495-4089 osc@harvard.edu Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College