Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Programs of Study Harvard Integrated Life Sciences A Collaborative, Interdisciplinary Approach to Biology An Integrated Student Experience Jess Kanwal, PhD '19 in Neuroscience, presented her research on how the brain combines taste and smell at the annual Harvard Horizons symposium. The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) at Harvard University provides exceptional opportunities for study across the depth and breadth of the life sciences through the Harvard Integrated Life Sciences (HILS) federation. Whether you are interested in conducting research on virus structures at the atomic level or on environmental impact in large ecosystems, you will find a good fit for your academic goals through HILS. The HILS federation is comprised of 14 PhD programs of study across four Harvard faculties—Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard Medical School, and Harvard School of Dental Medicine. HILS offers flexibility, including options to take courses, do laboratory rotations, and even choose a dissertation advisor from across the HILS federation, subject to specific program requirements and lab availability. However you customize your training, HILS is with you every step of the way. Choosing a Life Sciences Program While HILS students can access training resources and facilities from across Harvard University, individual PhD programs vary in their areas of focus, size, curriculum, and degree requirements. The research environments also vary. Some programs offer research opportunities in one of the many Harvard University-affiliated hospitals while others offer research opportunities at Harvard's world-class museums. Your application will be stronger if you plan ahead and tailor your application to the program(s) that most closely fit your academic interests. Before applying, we recommend that you: Explore each program's website (listed below). Use the HILS faculty database to explore the research interests and program affiliations of the 700 HILS-affiliated faculty at Harvard. (Please note: the HILS Faculty Database is currently under construction during summer 2021. Consult program websites and/or contact hils@fas.harvard.edu if you need assistance identifying HILS faculty during this time.) Carefully review application requirements on the GSAS website. HILS Programs Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics The Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics (BIG) PhD program emphasizes computational analysis and mathematical modeling of data, including the integration of clinical and population data from electronic health records. BIG provides graduate students with the tools to conduct original research and the ability to develop novel approaches and new technologies to address fundamental biological questions. Biological and Biomedical Sciences The PhD program in Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS) offers a broad choice of research topics and labs. The program is sub-divided into nine research communities: Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology; Cancer Biology; Cell Biology; Developmental and Regenerative Biology; Genetics; Human Biology and Translational Medicine; Microbiology and Immunobiology; Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology; and Therapeutics. Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine The Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine (BSDM) PhD program provides interdisciplinary training in the biological processes that provide the intellectual basis for dental medicine. This program is appropriate for students who already possess a DMD, MD, or have been admitted to the DMD program at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Biological Sciences in Public Health The PhD Program in Biological Sciences in Public Health (BPH) emphasizes interdisciplinary basic research spanning from molecular biology to human populations. BPH students develop individualized research projects focused on defining the molecular underpinnings of human health and disease by employing cutting-edge approaches in biochemistry, cell biology, genetics, genomics, metabolic biology, physiology, immunology, biophysics, computational and systems biology, and bioengineering. A central goal of the research in this program, whether basic or translational, is the improved understanding, prevention, and treatment of the most common and impactful global health threats. Biophysics At the 2019 reunion for the Biophysics program, students and alumni exchanged ideas, inspiration, and practical advice. The PhD program in Biophysics trains students with strong quantitative skills for independent research careers in which the concepts and methods of physical science are applied to the solution of biological problems. The Biophysics curriculum provides an introduction to five diverse areas of biophysics: structural molecular biology, cell and membrane biophysics, molecular genetics, physical biochemistry, and neuroscience. Chemical Biology The PhD program in Chemical Biology combines the rigor and quantitative aspects of traditional chemistry and biochemistry programs with the excitement and medical relevance of modern molecular, cellular, organismic, and human biology. The Chemical Biology program equips PhD candidates with the experimental and theoretical knowledge to use chemical tools to understand biological processes. Chemistry and Chemical Biology The PhD program in Chemistry & Chemical Biology (CCB) provides a rich training in the unique tools of chemical inquiry and a commitment to scientific investigation at the molecular level. Research and training opportunities are offered in many subdisciplines of chemistry, including chemical biology, inorganic, organic, physical, and theoretical. Immunology The Immunology program offers PhD students a sophisticated training in immunology, and exposure to the immunological and non-immunological problems of disease. Through multidisciplinary training, students are exposed to traditional fields of medical biology as well as to all major areas in the expanding field of immunobiology including transplantation, neuro-immunology, autoimmunity, stem cell biology, infection and immunity, and tumor immunology. Molecular and Cellular Biology Matt Smith, PhD student in Molecular and Cellular Biology, is active in the GSAS Minority Biomedical Scientists of Harvard student group. The Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology (MCB) hosts the Molecules, Cells, and Organisms (MCO) graduate program that trains future leaders of scientific research in all areas of modern biology. Research and teaching in the MCO graduate program are organized along four tracks: Biochemistry, Chemical, and Structural Biology (BCSB); Cellular, Neuro and Developmental Biology (CND); Genetics, Genomics and Evolutionary Biology (GGE); and Systems and Computational Biology (SCB). MCB also hosts a program in Engineering and Physical Biology (EPB). Neuroscience Krissy Lyon, PhD student in Neuroscience, is working on cross-disciplinary research with a lab in the Department of Genetics. The PhD program in Neuroscience (PiN) offers graduate students comprehensive training across the spectrum of neurosciences, ranging from cellular and molecular processes at the foundation of neural development and function, to integrative processing in the central nervous system, and mechanisms and treatment of human neurologic disease. Training is designed to support the next generation of neuroscientists to be able to draw from, synthesize, and advance the knowledge and experimental approaches born from fields spanning genetics, molecular and cellular biology, and biochemistry; from physics, computer science, and engineering. Organismic and Evolutionary Biology The Organismic and Evolutionary Biology (OEB) PhD program is committed to training scientists who pursue a greater understanding of the structure, function, variation, and evolution of biological systems. Faculty and students examine significant biological processes that span a continuum from single cells to entire ecosystems, conducting field and laboratory studies that are key to understanding the evolution of organisms, how biodiversity is generated and maintained, how organisms work, and how organisms interact with their environment. Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology The program in Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology (SHBT) provides multidisciplinary PhD research training in basic, clinical, and applied approaches to the study and treatment of all aspects of human communication and its disorders. The strength of the program lies in its unusual coupling of knowledge and skills from acoustics, engineering, computer science, cellular and molecular neuroscience, psychophysics, cognitive science, linguistics, and clinical practice to understanding how humans communicate through speech and hearing. Systems, Synthetic, and Quantitative Biology Silvia Cañas Duerte, PhD student in Systems, Synthetic, and Quantitative Biology, studies bacterial resistance. The Systems, Synthetic, and Quantitative Biology PhD program engages graduate students in explaining how the higher-level properties of complex biological systems arise from the interactions among their parts. Students are trained to combine experimental and theoretical approaches to develop physical and quantitative models of biological processes relevant to important unsolved problems in biology. Virology The program in Virology provides students with opportunities to conduct graduate study for the PhD degree in a range of areas relating to this exciting field, including structural studies of viruses and viral proteins, studies of virus/host interactions and viral pathogenesis, use of viral vectors in gene therapy, interactions of viruses with the immune system, and rational drug design. Applying to a Program Affiliated with the HILS Federation All HILS programs strive for inclusive excellence, based on the belief that diversity in every dimension makes our programs stronger. While each program has its own admissions requirements and committee, all HILS programs take an integrated look at each application, holistically evaluating all aspects of the application rather than relying on any single factor to determine admission. If you are interested in applying to a program affiliated with the HILS federation, be sure to review the specific application requirements for your program of interest and the general GSAS application instructions. GRE scores are not required by any HILS program, however, some do allow submission of scores if you choose to do so. Applying to Multiple Programs in the HILS Federation While prospective students are encouraged to carefully choose the HILS program that best fits their academic goals, interested applicants may apply to up to three programs and pay only one application fee. If you elect to apply to three programs, only two may be programs in the Division of Medical Sciences (these programs are Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics, Biological and Biomedical Sciences, Immunology, Neuroscience, Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology, and Virology). The fee waiver for additional applications is ONLY available for those applying to multiple programs in the HILS federation. See Completing Your Application for information about fee waivers related to financial hardship. You may begin and work on multiple applications through the application home page. Each application must be unique, containing a separate statement of purpose, transcripts, recommendations, and test scores. Please note that if you use the same recommenders for multiple applications, they must upload their letter of recommendation to each application. After you submit your first application and pay the application fee, the fee will be waived for subsequent submissions. You may submit a maximum of three applications to GSAS during the course of your academic career, which includes applications to multiple programs in the HILS federation regardless of whether you submitted them under a single application fee. Enhancing Your Research Experience before Applying We are looking for creative people from a variety of backgrounds who are passionate about the life sciences. Most incoming PhD students in HILS federation programs have enjoyed a previous research experience. GSAS and Harvard University offer a range of exciting and challenging summer research and internship programs designed to help current undergraduates boost crucial research skills. Learn more about Research and Internship Programs A Diverse Scholarly Community Different points of view are critical to life sciences research, where advancing knowledge often requires bringing a new perspective or approach to a problem. At GSAS, we strive to create an inclusive community where all students can thrive and grow academically and personally. The School is proud of its diverse community representing many races, ethnicities, belief systems, nationalities, physical abilities, genders, and sexual orientations and welcomes applications from all groups underrepresented in graduate education, particularly Black and African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, and native Pacific islanders. Learn more about Diversity at GSAS Why Choose Harvard? Students apply their lab skills to haute cuisine in the annual HILS Science and Cooking Challenge. GSAS offers PhD students guaranteed full financial support, including stipends and grants for tuition and health insurance. Funding for HILS students comes from a range of sources, including Harvard University, training and research grants, and student-won fellowships. In addition, GSAS and Harvard University offer a wealth of resources to support you academically and personally throughout your graduate experience. Professional development assistance for enhancing writing, research, and teaching skills and for planning academic and nonacademic career paths; Access to a large, vibrant, and diverse alumni network for mentorship, career exploration, and social, cultural, and intellectual engagement; Health and wellness services, such as comprehensive health care and a range of resources promoting physical and mental wellness; A community of inclusion fostered by GSAS and supported in part by GSAS Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging and the Accessible Education Office; Opportunities to connect with a community of students who share common interests and goals through graduate student groups such as GSAS Minority Biomedical Scientists of Harvard, Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering, GSAS Harvard Biotechnology Club, and more; The GSAS Student Center, where students and faculty from multiple disciplines interact with one another and participate in activities such as dinners, discussion groups, language tables, dances, concerts, ski trips, and other outings. Learn more about GSAS and Harvard University Resources News October 22, 2018 Research, Science The Mystery of Bacterial Persistence How Silvia Cañas-Duarte uses systems biology to explain bacterial behavior.Read More October 19, 2018 HILS, Profile, Research, Science The Brain at Work Krissy Lyon, PhD candidate in neuroscience, studies neurotransmitters and aggression.Read More October 9, 2018 HILS, Diversity, Profile, Research, Science Trying Something New Matt Smith’s life is full of acronyms. “My PI is part of OEB. And my grad program is MCO, which is... Read More October 2, 2018 HILS, Science HILS Celebrates New Year, New PhD Students The Harvard Integrated Life Sciences ( HILS ) hosted a welcome dinner for new graduate students as part of the September 2018 GSAS Welcomes events.Read More HILS includes Bioinformatics and Integrative GenomicsBiological and Biomedical SciencesBiological Sciences in Dental MedicineBiological Sciences in Public HealthBiophysicsChemical BiologyChemistry and Chemical BiologyImmunologyMolecular and Cellular BiologyNeuroscienceOrganismic and Evolutionary BiologySpeech and Hearing Bioscience and TechnologySystems, Synthetic, and Quantitative BiologyVirology Contact Info Follow HILS on Twitter @HarvardHILS! Professor Andrew Murray Co-Director, Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Send Email Professor Rosalind Segal Co-Director, Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Send Email Samantha Reed Executive Director, Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Send Email Xavier du Maine Assistant Director of Diversity and Inclusion Send Email Franceny Johnson Coordinator, Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College