Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Financial Support Funding and Aid Other Sources of Funding Student Loans For those unable to utilize the federal loan programs, Harvard University has compiled information about private loan programs available for both US citizens and international students. Veterans Benefits Harvard University extends a special welcome to those students who are veterans of the US armed forces. Students who are eligible for veteran and military benefits should procure a Certificate of Eligibility from the US Department of Veterans Affairs. Once the GSAS Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has received your Certificate of Eligibility and Notice of Student Enrollment forms, we will work with the VA to activate your educational benefits. Additional Opportunities GSAS Student Center Fellows GSAS Student Center fellows organize intellectual, cultural, athletic, and social activities at the graduate student center in Lehman Hall and in the Cambridge and Boston area. Fellows work closely with GSAS administrators and each other to engender a sense of community and enrich graduate student life. Fellows receive up to 10 meals per week in the GSAS Commons dining hall, guaranteed housing in a GSAS residence hall if they wish to live in one, and a $3,000 stipend. Assistant fellows may receive a small stipend as compensation. Applications for fellow positions are available in January for the following academic year. Graders Some courses use graders to help evaluate student work, including exams and weekly problem sets. A grader is paid at an appropriate fraction of a TF salary. The Harvard College Office of Undergraduate Education approves grading appointments. Part-Time Teaching outside Harvard Graduate students interested in locating part-time teaching opportunities outside Harvard should consult with their department chair, advisor, or staff at the Office of Career Services or the Student Employment Office. Proctoring for Exams and at Fall Term Registration Graduate students interested in proctoring should email the Office of the Registrar or call 617-495-1542. Proctoring opportunities are also available at Harvard Law School; contact Michelle Pessinis at the Harvard Law School Registrar’s Office for more information (617-495-1707). The Harvard Extension School The Harvard Extension School hires a small number of graduate students as support teaching staff. Consult the course catalog for information on courses offered. Individual faculty members are responsible for recruiting and supervising support staff. For additional information regarding eligible courses, email Mark Lax or call 617-495-4867. Harvard Divinity School Summer Language Program Positions for teaching assistants in Arabic, French, German, Hebrew, Latin, or Spanish translation may be available through the Harvard Divinity School’s Summer Language Program. For information, email Karin Grundler-Whitacre, director of the HDS Summer Language Program, or call the Office for Faculty and Academic Affairs at 617-384-6598. Resident Positions: Resident Advisors, Freshman Proctors, and House Tutors RESIDENT ADVISORS Resident advisors (RAs) are 15 graduate student members of the GSAS Office of Student Affairs team who live on each floor of the four GSAS residence halls. RAs help students adjust to the Harvard community, aid in emergency situations, and serve as liaisons with the GSAS administration. Applicants must be degree candidates in good academic standing and must have lived for at least one term in a GSAS residence hall. Compensation includes a free room and a weekday lunch and dinner meal contract at the GSAS Student Center Café. Applications for RA positions are available in January for the upcoming academic year. For information, email Ashley Skipwith, director of residential life, or call 617-495-5060. FRESHMAN PROCTORS Freshman proctors provide guidance for first-year students in all aspects of their exploration of Harvard. They live in the freshman dormitories and are members of the College staff with whom first-year students have the most contact. The proctor application deadline is rolling; however priority is given to candidates who apply by early January. RESIDENT TUTORS Resident tutors are members of the undergraduate Houses and play a vital role in the residential and educational life of undergraduates. The priority deadline to apply to be a resident tutor is typically the last day in January. Houses also appoint several nonresident tutors, who usually receive some meals and an opportunity to participate in House life in exchange for various duties. For 2021-2022, the GSAS Office of Admissions and Financial Aid assumes earnings of $11,850 in-kind compensation for ten-month resident tutors and freshmen proctors and an additional $1,720 for the summer. The in-kind compensation for Resident Advisors is $11,041. Student Employment For those students who did not qualify for Federal Work-Study, part-time employment may be an attractive opportunity to help defray costs. The Harvard University Student Employment Office maintains listings of opening both on- or off-campus. Share This Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College