Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Fellowships & Writing Center Writing Oasis The Writing Oasis provides a space for accountability, productivity, and peer support. As one participant described the experience, “It’s like going to a gym and taking a group class instead of running alone on the treadmill.” At the start of each Writing Oasis session, students share their writing goals with a group of peers. Participants then write for a predetermined amount of time, with break periods embedded, to achieve their objective. At the end of the session, participants share their experiences and discuss whether they met their goals. Summer Groups Registration is now open for our summer writing groups, which will run from June 13 until July 29. We will facilitate morning and afternoon groups, which will meet on either M/W or T/Th schedules. This seven-week period will allow you to set a concrete goal (whether finishing a dissertation chapter, working on an article, drafting a research proposal, or compiling research notes) and to make progress toward that goal during the writing sessions. To register for the Summer Writing Oasis, please fill in this Qualtrics form by Tuesday, June 7. How Can the Writing Oasis Help? Writing a dissertation, or, on a smaller scale, a research article, presents a number of challenges that we hope to identify, and begin to overcome, during the writing sessions: Where do I begin? How do I structure my dissertation? What’s my primary, encompassing argument? What are my secondary arguments? What does my data/research material actually say? Am I missing data? With what theory or theories am I in dialogue? Why do I feel like my work has me running in circles? What does a good dissertation/article/book chapter look like? How do I map this all out? What is a Writing Oasis? The Writing Oasis is a space to: articulate a measurable objective and goal (“I want to write an ethnographic vignette on X for my third chapter; I expect that to take 3-5 pages of writing.”) set a timer for writing periods and break periods be joined by a small group of peers who also share their goals and commit to write without distraction during the writing blocks create accountability by sharing progress toward goals at the end of each session and to share writing struggles, if helpful track if there are reoccurring reasons you might be distracted from your writing (Physical needs? Anxiety over grasp of material? Missing data or key sources? Lack of direction or sense of what’s next? Apprehension about writing quality? Language barrier? Other?) chat with peers to offer strategies, share ideas, and simply be in community as we encounter challenges. Share This Contact Info How do I make an appointment? Interested in receiving advising on fellowships? Sign up for an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Would you like feedback on a piece of writing? Complete the FWC intake form and one of our writing specialists will schedule an appointment with you. Struggling with the writing process but don’t yet have a draft to send? Brainstorm with us during office hours. Looking for advice on oral presentations? Get feedback from the FWC staff by signing up for Practice Presentations, held every Friday during the academic year from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Have a question not covered here? Email the FWC at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu, including your graduate program and G year. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College