Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Financial Support Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Several fellowships are available to students at or near the beginning of graduate study, typically restricting eligibility to applicants who are not more advanced than the first or second year of graduate study. They normally require US citizenship or permanent resident status. Note: For each of the fellowships listed in the categories below please find more detailed information by consulting the CARAT database. This database also has a more comprehensive list of early-stage fellowships. Some of the principal fellowships in this category are: US Department of Education Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships (FLAS) For students who are in a program that combines modern foreign language training with international or area studies or with the international aspects of professional or other fields of study focusing on East Asia, or Eastern Europe. Fellowships may be for one academic year or one summer session. Applicants must be US citizens or nationals, or have permanent residency status. Financial provisions provide a stipend of around $15,000 and some tuition costs. Students apply through the GSAS Office of Admissions and Financial Aid and not through the US Department of Education. If you have questions about the fellowship, you can email the FLAS Fellowship coordinator. Ford Foundation Fellowships (predoctoral) For doctoral students in the behavioral and social sciences, literature and languages, history, philosophy and religion, life sciences, chemistry, earth sciences, physics and astronomy, engineering, mathematics, and computer science. The awards are open to US citizens or nationals who are members of the following minority groups: Alaskan Natives (Eskimo or Aleut), Native American Indians, Black/African Americans, Mexican Americans/Chicanos, Native Pacific Islanders (Polynesian or Micronesian), and Puerto Ricans. Hertz Foundation Graduate Fellowships For students in the applied physical sciences concerned with applications of physical sciences to human problems. Candidates may be seniors or students who have already commenced graduate study. They must be US citizens or permanent residents. The awards are for one academic year and are renewable up to five years. National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship Program (NDSEG) of the US Department of Defense For students who are US citizens or nationals at or near the beginning of graduate study for doctoral degrees in mathematical, physical, biological, and engineering sciences. This is a three-year award. National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program For graduate students in the fields of mathematical, physical, biological, engineering, and behavioral and social sciences, including the history and philosophy of science. The awards are open only to applicants who are citizens or nationals of the US or permanent residents, and students must apply no later than the G2 year. The awards offer three years of support. Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans For master’s and doctoral students who are new Americans. A new American is an individual who (1) is a resident alien, i.e., holds a Green Card; (2) has been naturalized as a US citizen; (3) is the child of two parents who are both naturalized citizens; or (4) is a DACA recipient. Individuals who are beyond the second year of their graduate program are not eligible for this competition. To be eligible you must not be older than 30 years of age by the fellowship deadline. The fellowships provide support up to two years of graduate study in the United States. Trudeau Foundation Scholarship For first- or second-year doctoral students who are enrolled in a social sciences or humanities program and who are doing research in areas related to the foundation’s four themes of Human Rights and Dignity, Responsible Citizenship, Canada in the World, and People in their Natural Environment. Applicants must be Canadian citizens. Scholarships are grants of up to four years for a maximum of $60,000 per year. Share This Contact Info Questions? The Fellowships Office and the Center for Writing and Communicating Ideas have merged to form the Fellowships & Writing Center. Students with questions about finding fellowship support should email gsas-fellowships@fas.harvard.edu, while students looking for help with writing a fellowship proposal should visit the Fellowships & Writing Center. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College