Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Fellowships & Writing Center Fellowships GSAS provides resources for graduate students seeking funding for research support, language study, multiple-year general support and dissertation-writing support. What is a fellowship? As a GSAS student, you may be required or encouraged to find outside funding for projects and research. Fellowships can provide support for your research, travel, language study, dissertation writing, and other necessities of an academic program. Some fellowships are designed to fund students over multiple years while others are short-term grants for specific time periods or projects. Plan Ahead Deadlines for fellowship competitions are usually in the academic year before the fellowship period: for example, if you’re looking for funding for the fall or spring, you will apply for fellowships the previous fall. Make sure you’re familiar with your Notice of Financial Support and know how to contact your financial aid officer. How do I find a fellowship? The Fellowships & Writing Center provides guidance to students interested in applying for certain internal and external fellowship competitions. GSAS also maintains the CARAT database, which contains information about additional fellowship opportunities and should be your first stop. Internal Competitions GSAS hosts several internal fellowship competitions and collaborates with the Committee on General Scholarships on Harvard-wide competitions: Graduate Society Summer Predissertation Fellowships GSAS Summer School Tuition Fellowships, for language study GSAS Merit and Term-Time Research Fellowships, a half-year award Kennedy, Knox, and Sheldon Traveling Fellowships, the Lurcy Traveling Fellowships, and the Samuelson Traveling Fellowships. GSAS Dissertation Completion Fellowships External Competitions The Fellowships Office also administers several external competitions: Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad Program (DDRA) Fulbright US Student Program from the Institute of International Education (IIE) The CARAT Database The CARAT database allows students to search for fellowship opportunities by keyword, citizenship requirement, length of opportunity, stage in graduate school, and more. Through CARAT, you can find links to application materials and instructions on how to apply. You also apply to many Harvard fellowships via CARAT, including those listed above. External Databases Pivot The University of Chicago Fellowships Database How do I apply for a fellowship? Every fellowship has specific criteria and application instructions, but as a general rule, most competitions ask for: A fellowship proposal, explaining your research topic and what you plan to do if you are granted the fellowship Recommendation letters A budget of expenses you expect to incur, especially for travel competitions Transcripts A current CV, which includes a list of awards and fellowships you have won during your time as a graduate student, fellowships you are currently supported by, publications, and other relevant information Plan your application well in advance by seeking out recommenders early, making sure you obtain official transcripts well ahead of deadlines, and drafting your proposal early to get as much feedback on it as possible. How do I get more help? Scholarly Pursuits Scholarly Pursuits: A Guide to Professional Development during the Graduate Years is a free online publication by Dr. Cynthia Verba, former director of the Fellowships Office. It contains samples of winning fellowship proposals and fellowship biographical essays, advice on making the most of the student-faculty advising relationship, and strategies for setting goals to ensure progress. The book also includes an introductory guide to publishing and model curricula vitae, résumés, and cover letters, as well as resources for work-life balance. For specific help on fellowship proposal writing, see the section "Writing the Dissertation Fellowship Proposal." Individual Counseling Sessions In an individual advising session, you will receive feedback on your fellowship proposal and advice on how to articulate the significance of your fellowship project. If you would like a critique of your fellowship essay, please complete the FWC intake form and one of our writing specialists will schedule an appointment with you. Make an appointment well in advance of your deadlines, as spots fill up quickly, especially during peak application season in the fall. If you have a question about fellowships, please sign up for an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Proposal Workshops Proposal-writing boot camps for GSAS students are held throughout the year. Departments can also schedule proposal-writing workshops designed for their students. Keep an eye on our newsletter and the GSAS events calendar and ask your department if they have any workshops scheduled. Related Resources Scholarly Pursuits Scholarly Pursuits: A Guide to Professional Development during the Graduate Years provides advice on achieving academic success for students and faculty. CARAT Database for Grants and Fellowships Through the CARAT database, students can access information about grants and fellowships appropriate to graduate and postdoctoral students. Share This Contact Info Questions? The Fellowships Office and the Center for Writing and Communicating Ideas have merged to form the Fellowships & Writing Center. Students with questions about fellowships should consult the CARAT database and make an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Those looking for feedback on a fellowship proposal should complete the FWC intake form. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College