Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search FEATURE STORY Rethinking the History of Ancient Knowledge Recent graduate Alexandra Schultz casts new light on the origins and mythology of Hellenistic libraries Read more PODCAST Colloquy Podcast The Graduate Student Mental Health Crisis Taking a deep dive into the graduate student mental health crisis with Dr. Emily Bernstein, PhD ’20, a clinical psychologist at Massachusetts General Hospital's Center for Digital Mental Health. Listen now FEATURE STORY Evolving Relationships, Evolving Borderlands Yipeng Zhou researches the historical relationship between the Soviet Union and China over the Central Asian borderland, Xinjiang Read more News Topic The Advising Project Alumni Commencement Coronavirus Dean's Messages Fellowships HILS Diversity Humanities International Professional Development Profile Research Science Social Sciences Student Affairs Student Life Keyword May 25, 2022 Alumni Robert Zimmer: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation It takes a uniquely distinguished leader to step up as a national champion for the core values of higher education while working tirelessly to expand and elevate one of the world’s great research universities. Over decades of leadership at the... May 25, 2022 Alumni Vicki Sato: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation Very few people have had as profound an impact developing life-saving medicines—and developing the ambitions and potential of like-minded students and fellows at Harvard—as Vicki Sato. Through decades of mentorship, teaching, and... May 25, 2022 Alumni John Kamm: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation The massacre at Tiananmen Square and the political detentions that followed were a shocking turning point in the world’s understanding of modern China. For John Kamm, they were a call to action. At the time, Kamm was president of Hong Kong... May 25, 2022 Alumni Neil Harris: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation What do museums and libraries, shopping malls, art and design, illustrated children’s literature, world’s fairs, and P. T. Barnum have in common? All are institutions woven into the fabric of American life—and all have had the... May 25, 2022 Alumni The 2022 Centennial Medalists On May 25, 2022, for the first time in three years, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) welcomed alumni and friends back to campus to celebrate the presentation of the Centennial Medal to four distinguished graduates who have made fundamental and lasting contributions to knowledge, to their disciplines, to their colleagues, and to society. May 16, 2022 Alumni, Commencement, Profile, Research, Social Sciences Evolving Relationships, Evolving Borderlands Yipeng Zhou, who will graduate this month with an MA in regional studies from Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) says that the history of Xinjiang, China’s northwestern borderland in Central Asia, provides a lens for examining the evolving political and academic relationship between Russia and China. May 13, 2022 Alumni, Research, Social Sciences Colloquy Podcast: The Graduate Student Mental Health Crisis In the May 2022 episode of GSAS’s Colloquy podcast, we take a deep dive into the graduate student mental health crisis with Dr. Emily Bernstein, PhD ’20, a clinical psychologist at Massachusetts General Hospital's Center for Digital Mental Health. May 11, 2022 Alumni, Commencement, Humanities, Profile, Research Rethinking the History of Ancient Knowledge In her doctoral dissertation, “Imagined Histories: Hellenistic Libraries and the Idea of Greece,” recent graduate Alexandra Schultz pushes back against the longstanding narrative of Hellenistic libraries as established, maintained, and used solely by wealthy, “great men.” In doing so, she hopes to shake up the way that scholars look at the history of knowledge. May 11, 2022 Alumni, Profile, Social Sciences Minding the Gap As a postdoctoral researcher at the Mongan Institute of Massachusetts General Hospital , McDowell, PhD ’20, works to uncover the inequities that affect the health of those in the LGBTQ community—especially those who identify as TGD. May 2, 2022 Alumni, Commencement, Humanities, Profile, Research The Spoils of War Graduating student Henry Stoll’s PhD dissertation, “The Unsung Revolution: The Music of Haitian Independence, 1804–1820,” argues that much of early Haitian music followed French traditions, highlighting the difference between European Enlightenment ideals and the real-world treatment of colonies. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … Next Share This Contact Info Ann Hall Director of Communications 617-496-5280 Send Email Paul Massari Associate Director of Communications 617-384-7874 Send Email Emily Crowell Production Administrator and Digital Content Producer 617-495-2321 Send Email Colloquy Podcast The GSAS podcast features conversations with visionary scholars and thinkers from the Harvard PhD community. Listen to Colloquy Publications Colloquy Winter 2022 Archives GSAS Bulletin May 2019 Archives Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College