Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center (FWC) helps GSAS students heighten the impact of their research. We offer fellowships advising for internal and external awards, individual consultations to review pieces of writing, dedicated writing space, workshops on various aspects of writing, feedback on oral presentations, and other programming to all GSAS students in any discipline. We work with students at all stages of their careers who seek to improve their academic papers, dissertations, and presentations by fostering and refining their written and oral communication skills. In the Spotlight Know Before You Go: Conducting Summer Research Thursday, May 12, 11:00 a.m. ET (Part I); Wednesday, May 18, 4:00 p.m. ET (Part II) If you will be conducting intensive research this summer, then you may be interested in registering for one of two upcoming panels. At the first, Know Before You Go: Preparing for Summer Research, hosted by our colleagues at Harvard Library, you will review the best ways to prepare for future research travel, brainstorm workarounds you can use to make progress from home, and hear from colleagues' experiences visiting repositories around the world. Then, on May 18, Know Before You Go: Conducting Summer Research will feature a panel of experienced researchers who will share their tips for carrying out on-the-ground research in a number of methods relevant for the humanities and social sciences. You need not attend Part I to register for Part II. FWC Staff Jeannette Miller is the executive director of the FWC. Miller received her PhD in French and Francophone Studies at the Pennsylvania State University, specializing in post-imperial Algerian migration to France. A former Fulbright grantee and NEH summer scholar, her work has been published in French Politics, Culture & Society. She has taught classes on French language and culture, history, and writing at Penn State, Goucher College, the Institute for American Universities in France, and Johns Hopkins University. For nearly a decade, she has been a fellowships advisor mentoring students as they produce their most compelling applications for a variety of nationally competitive awards. She relishes the opportunity to work with Harvard students on their writing at all stages of their PhD training, and on their oral communication skills, believing that all students have the capacity to grow their self-expression skills with assiduous support. Christopher Brown received his PhD from the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at Harvard University, specializing in medieval and Renaissance Italian Studies. His research focuses on 14th-century poetry and time-consciousness, among other topics, and has been published by such leading journals as Renaissance Quarterly. Prior to joining the FWC, Brown taught Italian language and literature at Harvard, Holy Cross, and elsewhere, and, since his doctoral years, has been actively involved in promoting graduate student wellbeing—serving, for example, as the coordinating fellow of Dudley House (now the GSAS Student Center). In addition, Brown has worked as an English teacher and a journalist, and he believes that all forms of writing have the capacity to be beautiful. Katie Callam received her PhD in music (historical musicology) from the Harvard University Department of Music with a secondary field in American studies. Her research focuses on curating and public music history in the United States during the early 20th century. Dedicated to collaborative work in the humanities, Callam has co-researched and co-written an article published in American Music, among other projects. She is a recipient of the Society for American Music’s Mark Tucker Prize and a Harvard Library Pforzheimer Fellowship. Callam views the writing process as an endlessly fascinating puzzle of arranging words and organizing ideas, and she enjoys helping other writers work toward prose that is clear and convincing. Alex Creighton received his PhD from the Department of English at Harvard University, with a secondary field in Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality. Specializing in eighteenth-century literature, he writes about the development of the idea that time is an expendable resource—something we keep and lose—by examining the arts of music and fiction. His research appears in multiple peer-reviewed and public-facing journals, including The Rambling, VENTI, The Emily Dickinson Journal, and Short Fiction in Theory and Practice. A longtime instructor in higher education, he has taught courses in English, Creative Writing, WGS, and Expository Writing. Writing, he believes, is all about practice: trying new things, making mistakes, revising, trying again. With practice—as well as guidance and encouragement—student writers can exceed the boundaries of what they thought themselves capable of. Louis Gerdelan received his PhD from the Department of History at Harvard University, specializing in early modern Europe and the Atlantic world. His research reveals the ways in which people on both sides of the Atlantic in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries developed new means of understanding disasters. He has an article on this topic forthcoming in the Massachusetts Historical Review, and he has previously published on sectarian pamphlet literature and scientific travel writing. Gerdelan has taught a variety of history courses at both Harvard College and the University of Auckland (New Zealand). He views academic writing as an exercise involving a unique fusion of creative, analytical, and rhetorical skills, and he enjoys helping students use these abilities to communicate their work with clarity and eloquence. Jordan Wilkerson received his PhD in chemistry from the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Harvard University. From deploying low-flying airplanes to high-flying balloons, his graduate research centered on using airborne devices to directly observe our atmosphere’s changing chemical composition. His work has been published in Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics and Atmospheric Measurement Techniques. He also consistently participates in public discourse about science. He has given numerous public talks about environmental issues and writes for various news outlets such as Eos and Scientific American. Wilkerson is passionate about helping graduate students more clearly communicate their research and its impact on our world today. Consultations The Fellowships & Writing Center offers individual writing consultations that are geared toward improving the overall argument, structure, and style of your papers, chapters, or fellowship essays.Read more Fellowships The Fellowships & Writing Center provides advising support for fellowship applications, including reviewing drafts. Learn more about internal and external fellowships to support you at all stages of your graduate career.Read more FWC FAQ The Fellowships & Writing Center (FWC) helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research.Read more FWC Workshops The Fellowships & Writing Center offers a range of workshops—from informational panels on fellowships and research to interactive sessions in which we work on targeted writing skills—and aim to facilitate your professional development as a scholar.Read more On Grants and Prose The FWC sends a regular email to GSAS students highlighting our rich variety of programming (including workshops, writing groups, and practice oral presentations) and upcoming fellowship deadlines. Each newsletter also features a blog post about the writing process. Below you can review past issues...Read more Writing Oasis The Writing Oasis provides a space for accountability, productivity, and peer support.Read more Share This Contact Info How do I make an appointment? Interested in receiving advising on fellowships? Sign up for an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Would you like feedback on a piece of writing? Complete the FWC intake form and one of our writing specialists will schedule an appointment with you. Struggling with the writing process but don’t yet have a draft to send? Brainstorm with us during office hours. Looking for advice on oral presentations? Get feedback from the FWC staff by signing up for Practice Presentations, held every Friday during the academic year from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. During the summer, please email us at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu to schedule an appointment. Have a question not covered here? Email the FWC at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu, including your graduate program and G year. Noël Bisson Associate Dean of Academic Programs 617-496-6976 Send Email Jeannette Miller Executive Director, Fellowships & Writing Center Send Email Christopher Brown Associate Director of the Fellowships and Writing Center Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College