Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Fellowships & Writing Center FWC Workshops Workshops and other programming (such as talks) are announced on Engage, in the FWC newsletter On Grants and Prose, and in other GSAS communications. We offer a range of workshops—from informational panels on fellowships and research to interactive sessions in which we work on targeted writing skills—and aim to facilitate your professional development as a scholar. We also partner with offices including the Academic Resource Center and the Office of Career Services to bring you events such as “What I Wish I Had Known about Summer for PhD Students.” Visit the Fellowships & Writing Center on Engage for a list of upcoming events. Past Workshops Our past workshops have focused on topics including: Not Missing the Forest for the Trees: A Workshop on Writing and Finishing the Dissertation Perspectives on Pitching and Publishing Writing the Prospectus Overcoming Writing Obstacles Writing and Presenting the Conference Paper (a 3-part series) Moving from Reading to Writing Framing the Research Question Across Genres Finding Freedom through the Page You can find recordings of some of these workshops on the FWC Canvas site. Share This Contact Info How do I make an appointment? Interested in receiving advising on fellowships? Sign up for an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Would you like feedback on a piece of writing? Complete the FWC intake form and one of our writing specialists will schedule an appointment with you. Struggling with the writing process but don’t yet have a draft to send? Brainstorm with us during office hours. Looking for advice on oral presentations? Get feedback from the FWC staff by signing up for Practice Presentations, held every Friday during the academic year from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Have a question not covered here? Email the FWC at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu, including your graduate program and G year. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College