Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search Regional Studies–Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia The master’s degree in Regional Studies–Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia (REECA) is a two-year program offering advanced training in the history, politics, culture, society, and languages of this expansive region. The REECA master’s degree offers an excellent foundation for any career that requires broad area expertise, a high level of proficiency in at least one language of the region, and superb research, writing, and communication skills. REECA students may examine the region through a variety of historical and contemporary lenses, for example, in relation to neighbors such as the European Union. REECA alumni pursue careers in a variety of fields, including government service, non-profit management, academia, and the private sector. The REECA program is based at the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies, which marshals a rich and diverse array of resources to advance the interdisciplinary study of this world region. The Davis Center’s faculty associates, representing 13 disciplines at 5 Harvard schools, offer over 100 language and area studies courses each year. Harvard’s library and archival resources on the region are unmatched outside of Russia. The Davis Center hosts a full schedule of seminars, conferences, and special events that engage a dynamic and collegial scholarly community. REECA students also benefit from the offerings at other Harvard regional centers, for example, the Center for European Studies, the Center for Middle Eastern Studies, and the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute. REECA students enjoy superior financial aid, including academic year tuition grants and stipends, summer and academic year Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowships, and support for research travel and professional development. Admissions Requirements Admission to the REECA master’s program is highly selective and takes place in a single round of competition each year. Applicants are expected to demonstrate the potential for outstanding academic achievement at the graduate level and must present a superior undergraduate record, excellent academic references, a writing sample, and a compelling statement of purpose that makes clear how the REECA program fits in with their overall academic and/or career goals. The GRE General test is optional. The most competitive applicants have completed substantial prior coursework in language and area studies of the region, especially history and the social sciences. Entering students typically have completed the equivalent of three or more years of college-level study of at least one of these languages: Russian, Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian, Czech, Polish, or Ukrainian. Experience in the region is highly desirable, whether studying abroad, working, or pursuing independent research. For more information, visit the REECA program website. Program requirements are also found in GSAS Policies. Regional Studies–Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia Faculty See list of Regional Studies–Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia faculty How to Apply Special Requirements GRE General: Optional Writing Sample: Required Application deadline January 5, 2022 Deadline 5 p.m. Eastern Time Degrees Offered Master of Arts (AM) Contact Regional Studies–Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia Website reeca@fas.harvard.edu Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College