Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Diversity Outreach Programs Summer Research Opportunities at Harvard Program A 10-week program for undergraduates interested in pursuing a PhD. The Summer Research Opportunities at Harvard (SROH) program connects undergraduates interested in a PhD with first-class researchers working in the life and physical sciences, humanities, and social sciences. This program is offered through GSAS and the Leadership Alliance. During this 10-week program, SROH interns conduct research and participate in discussions with Cambridge-based Harvard faculty, build their presentation and research discussion skills, and take part in field trips with other Harvard summer programs. Students in the program live in Harvard housing and enjoy access to the outstanding resources of the university. The program is funded by GSAS, Harvard Molecules, Cells, and Organisms, Harvard Evolution, Ecology, and Environment, and the Leadership Alliance. Note that we also have funding for students interested in atmospheric sciences as part of the NSF-supported International Partnership in Cirrus Studies project, a collaboration including U. Chicago, Harvard, Princeton, the University of Washington, and European institutions. Please see pire.geosci.uchicago.edu for information on participating faculty. Research focuses on modeling and measurement of high-altitude clouds. Applicants in the social sciences and humanities should feel free to write to the SROH program and indicate which Harvard faculty they have identified in their area(s) of interest and whether or not they have been in contact with said faculty. NEW! The Department of the Classics would welcome applicants interested in fields related to Greco-Roman antiquity, including, but not limited to Republican and Imperial Latin literature, Cicero and Roman oratory, Latin historiography, reception of Latin literature, history of classical scholarship. SROH Application Process SROH takes place between June and August. For information on eligibility requirements and how to apply, please visit the Leadership Alliance Summer Research-Early Identification Program. Applications open on November 1, 2021, and must be submitted by February 1, 2022. Room, Board, and Stipends The in-person version of the program covers travel to and from the program, housing, and typically a stipend of $3,500 and a food allowance of $1,500. Students participating in MARC or similar programs that provide summer support are welcome to apply. Students are required to participate for the full period of the program. Looking for other opportunities for summer research at Harvard? EXPLORE OTHER SUMMER PROGRAMS Share This Contact Info Want to learn more? E-mail sroh@fas.harvard.edu Sheila Thomas Dean for Academic Programs and Diversity 617-495-5315 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College