Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Student Life The GSAS Student Center The center of student life at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Welcome! For more than 25 years, the GSAS Student Center has offered social, intellectual, and recreational activities designed to help GSAS students make connections outside of the classroom, lab, or library. From its convenient location at Lehman Hall in Harvard Yard, the Center welcomes students from all GSAS departments and disciplines. The Center manages the GSAS Student Center Fellows, advises the GSAS Student Council (GSC), supports the GSAS Student Groups, contributes to GSAS Welcomes orientation programming, coordinates January@GSAS winter session programming, and oversees the GSAS Engage website and Lehman Hall operations. The GSAS Student Center welcomes individuals with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. If you would like to request accommodations or have questions, please contact stucenter@fas.harvard.edu or 617-495-2255 in advance of the event. GSAS Student Center Fellows GSAS Student Center Fellows are GSAS students who create programs for graduate students. Some of the Fellows programs take place virtually, at Lehman Hall, in the Boston-area, or elsewhere in New England. All GSAS students, including those based in Longwood and Allston areas, and their partners, spouses, and children, and guests, as well as students living in GSAS residence halls are welcome to participate. The GSAS Student Center Fellows work in various program areas to create events such as film series, wine tastings, meditation sessions, short story clubs, days of service, family music-making classes, ski trips, dance lessons, or bike trips. The GSAS Student Center is also home to a literary magazine, language tables, and several musical performance ensembles. To explore all the Fellows program areas visit Engage. GSAS Student Council The GSAS Student Center team advises the GSAS Student Council (GSC), the student government for GSAS students. The GSC advocates for, supports, and recognizes GSAS students in academic, administrative, and residential matters. Through monthly Open Meetings, the GSC brings together students across disciplines in order to raise matters of mutual concern. The group also provides a vehicle for GSAS students and administrators to have a meaningful dialogue about the issues that shape the graduate experience at Harvard. Additionally, the GSC awards grants for travel and research, funds GSAS student groups and organizations, and sponsors student-led Mini-Courses during January@GSAS, Harvard’s winter session. Each year, the group also celebrates and highlights student leaders and faculty who positively impact the graduate student experience. Connect with the GSC through Engage. GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center oversees GSAS Student Groups (GSG). Student groups greatly enhance the graduate student experience by providing opportunities to connect with a community of students who share common interests and goals. GSAS student groups gather around topics ranging from cultures, sports, and hobbies to community service and advocacy. The groups create spaces where you can engage in activities that promote personal growth, develop leadership skills, and build community. Join student groups, RSVP to events, and explore social and learning opportunities on Engage. To learn more about existing groups or how to start a new group, contact the GSAS Student Center. Lehman Hall Directory BASEMENT LEVEL Café Gato Rojo (B-1): Visit this student-staffed coffee shop Office of Student Services (B-2): Access valuable resources for resolving student concerns Office of Residential Life (B-2): Explore your options for on- and off-campus housing Computer Lab (B-2A): Open to all GSAS students, request the door code from the staff in the B-2 administrative offices Restrooms: Women’s (B-3A), Men’s (B-6M), and gender inclusive with a diaper changing table (B-10) FIRST FLOOR GSAS Commons (103): A dining hall open to the entire Harvard community at lunch and open to GSAS students and residents for dinner. Food in the GSAS Commons is provided by Harvard University Dining Services (HUDS). Fireside Room (101): A cozy space for events and a quiet study space when not in use Private Dining Room (102): A quiet space for a meal or a meeting SECOND FLOOR Fellowships & Writing Center (203): Access support on fellowship advising and applications and academic papers, dissertations, and speaking Graduate Student Lounge (204): A versatile space that is both casual, with a widescreen TV, and formal enough to host medium-sized events. The GSAS Student Council holds open meetings in this space on a monthly basis. Common Room (201): A great space for social events or lectures. A piano is available for students when the room is not in use. THIRD FLOOR Office of the Dean of Students (312): The dean of students has an office in both Smith Campus Center and Lehman Hall. Library (313): A quiet place to study and read Library Conference Room (313A): A conference room for a study group or small meeting space Game Room (301): A lounge with ping pong, billiards, and more ways to unwind GSAS Student Center Offices (306): Visit for questions about Lehman Hall, the GSAS Student Center Fellows, the GSAS Student Groups, and Engage website, event tickets, and friendly conversation Restrooms: Women’s (302W) and Men’s (302M) Reserve space in Lehman Hall through FAS RoomBook. Share This Contact Info The GSAS Student Center Lehman Hall 1 Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 stucenter@fas.harvard.edu Facebook: GSAS Student Center Instagram: @harvard.gsas.student.center Twitter: @GsasStuCenter Hours BUILDING HOURS Academic Year Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Weekends, 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Summer (June 1 — August 29, 2022) Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. GSAS COMMONS Monday through Friday, 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. CAFÉ GATO ROJO (ACADEMIC YEAR ONLY) Closed for spring 2022 OFFICES Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Reserve Space in Lehman Hall through FAS Roombook. Interested in becoming a GSAS Student Center Fellow? Applications will open in January 2022 for the 2022-2023 academic year. Interested in becoming a student leader in the GSAS Student Council or GSAS Student Groups? Reach out to your group of interest on Engage or contact the GSAS Student Center team. Jackie Yun Executive Director, GSAS Student Center 3rd floor, Room 305 GSAS Student Center 617-495-2255 Send Email Janet Daniels Senior Program Coordinator 3rd floor, Room 308 GSAS Student Center 617-495-2255 Send Email Jeff Shenette Senior Program Coordinator 3rd floor, Room 306 GSAS Student Center 617-495-2255 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College