Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Fellowships & Writing Center FWC FAQ The Fellowships & Writing Center (FWC) helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. Below are frequently asked questions that the FWC receives. What students at Harvard do you serve? All registered GSAS students, in any discipline and at any stage of their programs, are eligible for our services. Unfortunately, we are not able to work with students enrolled in Harvard College or any of the other professional or graduate schools. Where are you located on campus and do you take walk-ins? We are located on the second floor of Lehman Hall, the mezzanine level, atop the right staircase. You are always welcome to drop by and say hello, but please note that you must send us your drafts ahead of time to receive feedback. We also offer designated office hours for brainstorming and office hours for fellowship advice. *Note that our office is currently closed. We are conducting all consultations remotely. We will be following Harvard campus guidelines for reopening. Appointments and Feedback How can I receive feedback on a piece of writing? To receive feedback on a piece of writing, please fill out our intake form, uploading your draft directly. You are welcome to submit drafts at any stage of completeness. What is the turnaround time for your feedback on my piece of writing? For drafts under 25 double-spaced pages, we ask that you allow us a minimum of one week to read and return feedback. For longer pieces, please allow two weeks. We understand that emergencies come up; we will make every effort to accommodate you in these cases but cannot guarantee it. May I ask for feedback on multiple pieces of writing? We ask that you submit one piece of writing at a time for feedback. You are welcome to make subsequent appointments to discuss other pieces of writing as well. How many appointments am I allowed to make? You are welcome to make one appointment a week, depending on availability. Appointments are made on a first-come, first-served basis. On what types of writing do you provide feedback? We provide feedback on a range of academic writing, including abstracts, conference papers, course papers, prospectuses, theses and dissertations, and fellowship proposals. For advice on job materials (e.g., CVs or cover letters), you should contact the Office of Career Services. For teaching portfolios (e.g., teaching philosophy), you should seek help from the Bok Center. I’d like you to copyedit and proofread my writing; does your center offer this service? Consultations are geared toward improving the overall structure, argument, and style of your work, but we do not provide line editing or proofreading services. You may want to consult a colleague or seek outside help for these services. Other Support How can I get answers to my questions about applying for fellowships? You may sign up for Dr. Jeannette Miller’s fellowships advising office hours to discuss fellowships to apply for. Does your center offer support for oral presentations? Yes. We offer designated practice presentation times on Fridays from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. during the fall and spring terms, and provide feedback on style, content, and overall impressions. During the summer, we schedule presentations if you email us at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu. I’m struggling with getting started or moving along with the writing process; do you offer brainstorming sessions? Yes. You are welcome to meet with us to discuss your writing progress or just to brainstorm ideas. In order to schedule a meeting, select half-hour appointment times here; if none of these times work, you may also email one of our writing specialists directly. Workshops How can I find more information on your workshops? For details and registration information on all of our workshops, please see our page on Engage. We also send out updates in our newsletter, On Grants and Prose, which goes out through email on a biweekly basis during the school year, and monthly during the summer. What kind of workshops do you offer? We hold a wide range of workshops that address genre-specific writing skills and strategies, as well as aid in professional development. Past workshops have included such topics as writing the prospectus, completing the dissertation, managing research, writing and presenting the conference paper, overcoming obstacles to writing, and drafting a fellowship proposal. We also hold informational sessions and panels, as well as talks with guest speakers, including academic and non-academic authors, on the craft of writing. Share This Contact Info How do I make an appointment? Interested in receiving advising on fellowships? Sign up for an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Would you like feedback on a piece of writing? Complete the FWC intake form and one of our writing specialists will schedule an appointment with you. Struggling with the writing process but don’t yet have a draft to send? Brainstorm with us during office hours. Looking for advice on oral presentations? Get feedback from the FWC staff by signing up for Practice Presentations, held every Friday during the academic year from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Have a question not covered here? Email the FWC at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu, including your graduate program and G year. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College