Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Diversity Diversity Resources GSAS and Harvard University offer a number of resources designed to support our diverse community. Resources are also available for prospective and current graduate students who are first-generation college attendees or who are from low socioeconomic status backgrounds. In addition to the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging, other GSAS offices can offer advice and provide information about a myriad of resources in the areas of professional development, financial wellness, and social spaces that serve all our students. You can find links to that information here or in the broader GSAS website. Underrepresented Minority Students Students from underrepresented minority groups will find a welcoming and inclusive community at GSAS. The GSAS Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging works directly with a number of student organizations, such as the W. E. B. Du Bois Graduate Society and the Minority Biomedical Scientists of Harvard, to create community through social, professional development, and scholarly activities. Interested students also have the opportunity to serve as diversity and inclusion fellows working with the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging to help with existing efforts and shape new initiatives. For more information The Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging minrec@fas.harvard.edu 617‑495‑5315 LGBTQ Students GSAS provides a welcoming environment for LGBTQ students, and Harvard has a large and vibrant, University‑wide LGBTQ community. The student group LGBTQ@GSAS provides a safe space for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer graduate students and works directly with the GSAS Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging to ensure that LGBTQ voices have an established and respected place within the graduate community. Interested students also have the opportunity to serve as diversity and inclusion fellows working with the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging to help with existing efforts and shape new initiatives. Learn more at gsas.harvard.edu/diversity. For more information The Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging minrec@fas.harvard.edu 617‑495‑5315 Veterans Harvard University extends a special welcome to those students who are veterans of the US Armed Forces. Students who are eligible for veteran and military benefits should procure a Certificate of Eligibility from the US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Once the GSAS Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has received your Certificate of Eligibility and Notice of Student Enrollment forms, we will work with the VA to activate your educational benefits. For more information Learn more at sfs.harvard.edu/veteran-military-benefits. Students with Families While pursuing their Harvard education, graduate students live full personal lives, which often include spouses, partners, elders, and children. GSAS provides support and access to resources that will help you balance your family’s needs with the demands of your graduate program. For more information Learn more at gsas.harvard.edu/families. Students with Disabilities Harvard University works to ensure an accessible and welcoming working and learning environment for individuals with disabilities while ensuring compliance with federal and state regulations. Through the Accessible Education Office, Harvard University Disability Services, the GSAS Offices of Student Affairs, and Student Services, you can access the help you need to make the most of your Harvard experience. If you need to request services for a disability or health condition, register with the Accessible Education Office. For more information Learn more at gsas.harvard.edu/disability-resources. Share This Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College