Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search EVENT Commencement 2022 Harvard's 371st Commencement will take place on Thursday, May 26, 2022. Schedule of Events LiveStream the GSAS Diploma Awarding Ceremony Home Brilliant? Passionate? Dedicated? Join us. The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) at Harvard University is where scholarship and innovation meet, where ideas are challenged and theories developed, where new knowledge is created, and where scholars emerge. We actively recruit and cultivate a diverse community of students across 58 fields of study. We also guarantee 5 years of funding to all PhD candidates. Browse Degree Programs - Choose - African and African American Studies American Studies Anthropology Applied Mathematics Applied Physics Archaeology Architecture, Landscape Architecture, and Urban Planning Astronomy Bioengineering Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics Biological and Biomedical Sciences Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine Biological Sciences in Public Health Biophysics Biostatistics Biotechnology: Life Sciences Business Administration Business Economics Byzantine Studies Celtic Languages and Literatures Chemical Biology Chemical Physics Chemistry and Chemical Biology Comparative Literature Computational Science and Engineering Computer Science Data Science Earth and Planetary Sciences East Asian Languages and Civilizations Economics Education Electrical Engineering English Environmental Science & Engineering Film and Visual Studies Germanic Languages and Literatures Government Health Policy History History of Art and Architecture History of Science Human Evolutionary Biology Immunology Inner Asian and Altaic Studies International Relations Linguistics Materials Science & Mechanical Engineering Mathematics Middle Eastern Studies Molecular and Cellular Biology Music Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Neuroscience Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Organizational Behavior Philosophy Physics Political Economy and Government Political Science Population Health Sciences Psychology Public Policy Quantum Science and Engineering Regional Studies–East Asia Regional Studies–Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia Religion Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic Languages and Literatures Social Policy Sociology South Asian Studies Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology Statistics Systems, Synthetic, and Quantitative Biology The Classics Virology Why GSAS? Apply News May 25, 2022 Alumni Neil Harris: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation What do museums and libraries, shopping malls, art and design, illustrated children’s literature, world’s fairs, and P. T. Barnum have in common? All are institutions woven into the fabric of American life—and all have had the... May 25, 2022 Alumni John Kamm: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation The massacre at Tiananmen Square and the political detentions that followed were a shocking turning point in the world’s understanding of modern China. For John Kamm, they were a call to action. At the time, Kamm was president of Hong Kong... May 25, 2022 Alumni Vicki Sato: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation Very few people have had as profound an impact developing life-saving medicines—and developing the ambitions and potential of like-minded students and fellows at Harvard—as Vicki Sato. Through decades of mentorship, teaching, and... Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College