Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Financial Support Funding and Aid Financial Wellness Get support in planning for your financial future. Achieving financial wellness in graduate school is a collaborative process between students, their departments, and GSAS administrators. The GSAS Office of Financial Aid is here to support students in making healthy financial decisions. Every GSAS student’s financial situation is unique. For this reason, financial aid officers at GSAS specialize in supporting students from specific programs. We always recommend reaching out to your financial aid officer with questions instead of relying on information from your fellow students. Getting Help from Your Financial Aid Officer To request a meeting with your financial aid officer, email them or contact gsasfinaid@fas.harvard.edu. Examples of financial wellness topics that you may wish to bring up with your financial aid officer include: Your funding package and your Notice of Financial Support Financial aid policies Options for loans or resources for additional funding The compensation structure for research assistants and teaching fellows Expenses and budgeting Financial planning before, during, or after a major life event (such as the birth or adoption of a child or taking a medical leave of absence) Other Resources for Financial Wellness Below are resources that can help you create your own financial wellness plan. All links will direct you to resources outside of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Please be aware that some information on these sites may not be applicable to your personal financial situation. If you visit these websites, you will be subject to their terms of service and privacy policies. Budgeting Read an article about planning your budget from GreenPath Financial Wellness. Read an article about how to avoid common budgeting mistakes from GreenPath Financial Wellness. Learn about creating a budget from Harvard University Student Financial Services. Use a worksheet from Harvard GSAS’s Office of Admissions and Financial Aid to plan your monthly budget: Monthly Budget Worksheet.docx Credit Learn about credit, credit reports, and credit scores from Harvard University Student Financial Services. Request a free annual credit report through AnnualCreditReport.com. Learn about your FICO Score from myFICO. Read articles about credit scores, credit reports, and more from Experian. Taxes Get information about filing federal and state taxes from Harvard University Student Financial Services. Learn about filing taxes as an international student from the Harvard International Office. Prepare and file your federal taxes for free with the Internal Revenue Service. Debt Management Calculate your estimated student loan repayment at StudentLoans.gov. Read a guide on federal student loans from the US Department of Education. Learn about income-driven repayment plans from the US Department of Education. Learn about the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program from the US Department of Education. Get free student loan advice from The Institute of Student Loan Advisors. Access low-cost debt counseling through GreenPath (this service is free to members of the Harvard University Employees Credit Union). Additional Resources Get a list of additional financial wellness resources from Harvard University Student Financial Services. Receive free financial counseling from the GreenPath Financial Wellness Program through the Harvard University Employees Credit Union. Build financial know-how through Bank of America’s Better Money Habits program. Learn how to make informed financial decisions through Cash Course. Improve your financial literacy with the American Institute of CPAs. Learn about your personal finances from MyMoney.gov. Have your financial questions answered by NerdWallet. Manage your financial resources with Mint. Share This Contact Info Find your financial aid officer: Financial Aid Officers by Program Email the Office of Financial Aid: gsasfinaid@fas.harvard.edu Previous Workshops Tax Workshop for US Tax Residents - Wednesday, March 30, 2022 Tax Workshop for International Students - Wednesday, March 23, 2022 "Money Mindsets" Workshop: Learning our Strengths & Strategies for Financial Wellbeing - Thursday, November 18, 2021 Tax Workshop for International G1 and G2 Students - Tuesday, September 28, 2021 Tax Workshop for Domestic G1 and G2 Students - Tuesday, September 21, 2021 Investing Basics: Make Your Money Work for You - Tuesday, April 6, 2021 Improving Your Financial Habits - November 10, 2020 Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College