Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Graduate Life Convocation Convocation Updates We understand that as a result of supply chain issues, the Bookstore is not able to provide regalia to all alumni and graduates. Please be assured that all are welcome to participate in Convocation regardless of the ability to procure regalia. Quick Links Convocation and Commencement FAQ Information for Faculty Information for Guests View the ceremony livestream 2022 Ceremony Dates GSAS Convocation Sunday, May 15 University Commencement Wednesday, May 18 Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Thursday, May 19 GSAS Convocation Doctoral Convocation Ceremony: Procession -12:00 p.m. EDT Ceremony begins at 12:15 p.m. EDT Master's Convocation Ceremony: Procession - 2:45 p.m. EDT Ceremony begins at 3:00 p.m. EDT University Commencement University Commencement: 10:30 a.m. EDT Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 University Ceremony: 9:00 a.m. EDT (tentative) Expand all Collapse all Annual Awards An important part of our Convocation ceremonies is the recognition of the recipients of the Graduate School's annual awards. Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching 2022 Awardees to be announced. Columbia University Faculty Mentoring Award 2022 Awardees to be announced. Dr. Devon T. Wade Mentorship, Service, and Advocacy Award The Dr. Devon T. Wade Mentorship, Service, and Advocacy Award recognizes an Arts and Sciences master’s or doctoral student whose work reflects the exceptional commitment of the late Dr. Devon Wade (’18PhD, Sociology) to scholarship, teaching and mentorship, and service and advocacy on behalf of vulnerable communities. 2022 Awardee to be announced. The Campbell Award In 2016, the Columbia University Trustees and the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) established The Campbell Award, which is presented to a graduating student at each school who shows exceptional leadership and Columbia spirit as exemplified by the late Bill Campbell ’62CC, ’64TC, Chair Emeritus, University Trustee and CAA co-founder. The GSAS recipient for 2022 is: 2022 Awardee to be announced. How do I verify my eligibility? All students who meet the criteria described below are eligible to participate in University Commencement. PhD/DMA students You are eligible to participate in the May 2022 Doctoral Convocation Ceremony if: your degree was already conferred in October 2021 or February 2022, or you complete deposit of your dissertation by the deposit deadline for the May 2022 conferral. You are eligible to participate in the May 2022 University Commencement Ceremony if: your degree was already conferred in October 2021 or February 2022, or you complete deposit of your dissertation by the deposit deadline for the May 2022 conferral, or you expect to complete deposit of your dissertation by Friday, October 14, 2022, the deposit deadline for the October 2022 conferral. MA students You are eligible to participate in both the May 2022 Master’s Convocation Ceremony and the May 2022 University Commencement Ceremony if: your degree was already conferred in October 2021 or February 2022, you expect your degree to be conferred in May 2022 and you have already filed an application for the MA with the Registrar, or you expect your degree to be conferred in October 2022 and you have already submitted a program-approved Graduation Ceremonies Participation Petition to the GSAS Office of Student Affairs by April 1, 2022. (Note: This petition form does not substitute for the mandatory application for the MA degree, which you must still file with the Registrar by its deadline for October degree conferral.) Note: Participating in GSAS Convocation and University Commencement does not constitute conferral of a Columbia degree. How can I register for GSAS Convocation and University Commencement? GSAS Convocation If you are planning to participate in GSAS Convocation on Sunday, May 15, 2022, you must register for GSAS Convocation by Friday, March 25. GSAS uses this registration information to prepare materials for GSAS Convocation and to send you important details regarding the event, including how to ensure that your name is pronounced correctly during the ceremony; grant you access to the University Commencement ticketing system; and account for your guests. Register for GSAS Convocation University Commencement Although tickets are not required for graduates who are wearing academic regalia and carrying a Columbia ID card, tickets are required for guests. Please refer to the University Commencement website to view Commencement Day instructions and information for graduates and guests. Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To that end, all graduates, visiting alumni, and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status in order to attend in-person Commencement events this May. Vaccination cards will be checked upon entry to all outdoor and indoor venues. You can find more information about Columbia University COVID-19 protocols for Commencement-week events here. All students who wish to participate in University Commencement on Wednesday, May 18, 2022, must register for GSAS Convocation (see above) to become eligible to access the University’s Commencement registration system. You will receive an email from the GSAS Office of Student Affairs when you are eligible to access the University Commencement ticketing system. Once notified, ensure that your guests' plans are finalized before reserving tickets here because you may access the University Commencement ticketing system only once. You may follow the instructions in the email from GSAS Office of Student Affairs to register for University Commencement and request up to two guest tickets, which will be distributed electronically. Please be considerate to your fellow graduates and reserve only the number of guest tickets that you intend to use. If you have difficulty registering through the online system, write to [email protected]. Do I need to order regalia? We understand that as a result of supply chain issues, the Bookstore is not able to provide regalia to all alumni and graduates. Please be assured that all are welcome to participate in Convocation regardless of the ability to procure regalia. Pick up your name card Name cards are required for GSAS Convocation and are used to announce your name as you cross the stage. When you register for GSAS Convocation (see above), you will be able to provide notes on the proper pronunciation of your name. Professional photographers will also use these name cards to identify the student in each photograph. You may pick up your name card in person in 107 Low Library the week prior to Convocation (Wednesday, May 11 to Friday, May 13, 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.). If you are unable to collect your name card in advance, or have forgotten or lost your name card, you may obtain a copy at the designated table in Lerner Hall on the day of Convocation. Confirm your mailing address to receive your diploma Diplomas will be mailed following graduation to the "Diploma (DP) Address" that is on file, based on each graduate’s degree conferral date. Verify or update your DP address on Student Services Online (SSOL). Please contact [email protected] with any additional questions. Photographs A professional photograph of each degree recipient will be available for purchase. The official event photographers will contact graduates via email in the days following Convocation, using information on the student's name card. How can I watch the ceremony? You may view the ceremonies live via this link. Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS graduates from 2020 and 2021 are invited to participate in the Convocation ceremonies on Sunday, May 15, 2022. If your MA or PhD degree was conferred from October 2019 or to June 2021, you are eligible to participate in both GSAS Convocation and the University celebration (see below). PLEASE NOTE: For alumni participating in GSAS Convocation, either full regalia or a tam and commemorative stole is required for PhD alumni, and full regalia is required for Master’s alumni. Regrettably, the Bookstore is not able to take orders from alumni to rent full doctoral regalia, but you will be able to order a tam and commemorative stole or Master’s regalia online beginning March 14. If you are planning to participate in GSAS Convocation on Sunday, May 15, 2022, you must register for GSAS Convocation by Friday, March 25. GSAS uses this registration information to prepare materials for GSAS Convocation and to send you important details regarding the event, including how to ensure that your name is pronounced correctly during the ceremony; grant you access to the University Commencement ticketing system;and account for your guests. The University is coordinating with the International Students and Scholars Office to offer support to graduates encountering visa challenges to travel to New York City for the Celebration. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to write to [email protected]. Covid protocols You can find information about Columbia University COVID-19 protocols for Commencement-week events here. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close