Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Student Life Coronavirus Information for the 2021-2022 Academic Year As members of the Harvard community, we have a collective responsibility to keep one another safe and healthy. All GSAS affiliates are expected to follow University and FAS guidance, including meeting the vaccine booster requirement, testing if necessary or required, and wearing FAS-approved masks, when required. Unless we work together to uphold these responsibilities, we put ourselves and one another at risk. Please note that repeated noncompliance with these expectations may lead to restriction of access to classrooms and buildings, notification to graduate program administration, or referral to the GSAS Administrative Board for disciplinary action. As of April 26, 2022, non-residential students no longer need to follow a testing cadence but may continue to test if they wish. Residential students should follow their assigned testing cadence until May 10, 2022, after which they may choose to continue testing. If you have questions related to the testing requirement, please email GSASTestingCompliance@fas.harvard.edu. Coronavirus News October 1, 2021 Coronavirus, Research, Science Colloquy Podcast: The Incredible Shrinking Vaccine Efficacy In the inaugural episode of the GSAS Colloquy podcast, alumnus Michael Lin, a microbiologist and Professor at Stanford University talks about vaccination mandates as a path out of the pandemic, but also about the decline in vaccine efficacy over time.Read More August 30, 2021 Coronavirus Getting the Balance Right It’s no surprise that Harvard has been good at responding quickly to changing... Read More May 28, 2021 Coronavirus, Research, Social Sciences The Kids Aren’t Alright New research from a team that includes a GSAS alum and a current student indicates that the COVID-19 pandemic has taken a toll on youth mental health. But the study also identifies behaviors that can mitigate the effects of the lockdown and help young people cope with stress long after the coronavirus has subsided.Read More Pages 1 2 … Next COVID-19 News Digest of COVID-19 News emails sent to students.Read more Community Expectations To keep Harvard community members safe and healthy and to ensure that campus remains open, we all have a shared responsibility to act prudently, safely, and in accordance with public health directives. The Community Expectations Related to COVID-19 represent the heart of this collective project.Read more January and Spring 2022 Checklist Information on what GSAS students need to do during the spring 2022 term.Read more Related Resources Talking with children about the Coronavirus This page offers parents insight to children's perception of the impact of COVID-19, as well as recommendations for communicating messages to and supporting their children. Share This Contact Info Questions? For University-wide updates and guidance about the virus, visit Keep Harvard Healthy. Questions about vaccines, immunization records, or anything else health or health insurance–related? Visit Harvard University Health Services. Looking for emotional support? Contact Counseling and Mental Health Services. If you need assistance connecting with CAMHS or navigating community support, please reach out to the Office of Student Services. Have a question or concern not addressed here? The Office of Student Services can help connect you with resources. If you feel sick Use Crimson Clear to report potential symptoms of or exposure to COVID-19. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College