Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Fellows The Diversity and Inclusion Fellows support the efforts of the GSAS Office of Diversity and Minority Affairs (ODMA), help GSAS to identify needed areas of support, and work with student groups across GSAS. 2021-2022 Diversity Fellows Michael Ortiz-Castro My name is Michael and I am currently a 3rd year PhD student in American studies here at GSAS. I'm really excited to join the team! I grew up in Trenton, New Jersey, and am a first-generation American, so diversity, equity, and belonging have been important to me for much if not all of my life. I did my undergrad at Wesleyan University, in Connecticut, where I double-majored in math and American studies. I was also involved in advocacy and inclusion work at Wesleyan, where I got to work with a variety of student groups on- and off-campus. After graduation, I worked for a year in management consulting, and now I'm here! WHY I AM A DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION FELLOW My life has been structured by race, gender, sexuality, class, citizenship, etc. I recognize that these have a pernicious effect on our social and psychic selves. My work in diversity and inclusion is driven by my sense of justice and opportunity, that fostering a truly vibrant intellectual community requires working against the ways in which categories of difference serve to fracture and discourage communities at Harvard. As a diversity and inclusion fellow, I hope to further the office’s mission by helping departments, groups, and centers at Harvard center diversity and inclusion in all their remote offerings. Further, I hope the office will be a crucial landing site for affinity groups and student leaders actively advocating for change within their own communities, offering resources and institutional support. Christina Fennell I was born and raised in Washington, DC, and I attended Spelman College in Atlanta, Georgia. While there, I majored in biology and minored in public health because I considered a career in medicine and had an interest in exploring how and why historically marginalized communities were disproportionately impacted by negative health outcomes. During my junior year in college, I completed a summer internship at Johns Hopkins University. My study focused on oral HPV among people who inject drugs in Baltimore City. I loved combining my math and science skills to analyze the data. I also enjoyed learning how to code. From this introduction to epidemiology, I decided to continue my studies in epidemiology, and I am currently a third-year PhD student in the Department of Epidemiology. My college experience at Spelman was life-changing because it is an academic institution created for black women who desire to change the world. It was a privilege attending Spelman College because I was in a safe environment, and I could explore my interests and passions without being judged based on my race. I believe when students from underrepresented backgrounds attend any academic institution, they should experience that same level of safety and support. WHY I AM A DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION FELLOW I became a diversity and inclusion fellow because while volunteering with the W. E. B. Du Bois Graduate Society, I found that I have a desire to create programs and provide safe spaces for students from historically marginalized communities as they navigate Harvard. Attending Harvard can be very challenging, but I want students to feel empowered to access Harvard’s resources. I hope to be able to continue to provide meaningful resources as I serve as a diversity and inclusion fellow. Esrah Du I grew up in a small town in northeast Massachusetts. Inspired by a love of microorganisms, I pursued my undergraduate degree in biology at Simmons University. During my time at Simmons, I developed a tight network of supports in the LGBTQ+ community both at Simmons and beyond. Supported by this sense of belonging, I pursued undergraduate research experiences that helped cultivate my love for studying the basic biology of parasites and their vectors which eventually led me to the Biological Sciences in Public Health PhD program at Harvard. I am now a second-year PhD student, jointly advised by Dr. Flaminia Catteruccia and Dr. Jeffrey Dvorin, studying the basic biology of how Plasmodium oocysts successfully grow and divide in the midgut of the Anopheles mosquito. This collaborative environment and the family I've been lucky to find within the Harvard community have reinforced my passion for ensuring that academia continues to grow into an inclusive and diverse place where everyone feels they belong. WHY I AM A DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION FELLOW I became an LGBTQ-focused diversity and inclusion fellow because I firmly believe that fostering diversity and inclusion should be priorities within the academic community. As a queer and nonbinary individual, I have experienced firsthand how difficult it can be to balance your academic and queer identities, as well as the hardship and sense of isolation that can occur in spaces where your identity is not fully understood or accepted. I have been exceptionally fortunate to find many role models and peers in the LGBTQ community here at Harvard and I am eager to work with the LGBTQ community at GSAS to better advocate for students’ needs and help ensure that others can find the same sense of belonging. As a diversity and inclusion fellow, I hope to continue building on existing initiatives while pushing the boundaries of how GSAS can support its LGBTQ+ students, including those who may still be questioning their identity. Diversity Fellow Application Any GSAS student who is currently a G-2 or above, in good standing, and registered in the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for the 2021-2022 academic year is eligible to apply for one of these positions. The Diversity and Inclusion Fellows work within the Office of Equity, Diversity,...Read more Share This Contact Info Michael Ortiz Diversity & Inclusion Fellow Send Email Christina Fennell Diversity & Inclusion Fellow Send Email Esrah Du Diversity & Inclusion Fellow Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College