Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Admissions Why GSAS? A Tradition of Academic Excellence Since it was first established at Harvard in 1872, GSAS has grown into a leading institution of graduate study, awarding the PhD and select master’s degrees in 58 degree programs that connect students with all parts of Harvard University. Today, GSAS students continue Harvard's tradition of excellence, teaching and learning alongside world-class faculty and mentoring promising undergraduates. More about Academics Degree Programs Interdisciplinary Programs of Study GSAS offers 58 degree programs, 21 secondary programs, and 6 interdisciplinary graduate consortia. In addition, we offer 18 interfaculty PhD programs in conjunction with: Harvard Divinity School Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard Medical School Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health Harvard Kennedy School Harvard School of Dental Medicine Generous Financial Support Our goal is to make graduate study affordable to all qualified candidates. We guarantee funding for the first 5 years of PhD programs and help master's students obtain funding from a wide range of sources. Our dedicated financial aid staff will help you develop a plan that enables you to secure the resources necessary to pursue your graduate education. Funding and Aid Fellowships A Diverse and International Community We're proud of our diverse community representing many races, ethnicities, belief systems, nationalities, genders, and sexual orientations. At GSAS, we understand that diversity is important to sustaining Harvard's excellence as an academic institution and strive to create an inclusive environment where all students can thrive and grow academically and personally. Diversity at GSAS GSAS at a Glance Unmatched Resources The Harvard Library system is the largest in the academic world, holding more than 18 million volumes. Students in the sciences utilize University-wide training resources, equipment, and facilities. Harvard is home to a number of art and science museums, and offers access to local museums to members of the Harvard community. The GSAS Student Center offers intellectual, social, and recreational opportunities. GSAS students can access the Harvard Innovation Lab, which fosters entrepreneurship and offers support for new ventures. GSAS students take advantage of the wealth of cultural institutions, work and research opportunities, and historical sites in Cambridge and Boston. Share This Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College