Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Programs of Study Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Admissions Checklist—Special Students and Visiting Fellows In your application, you should demonstrate strong educational reasons for studying at GSAS, providing evidence of academic strength, personal integrity, and your level of academic preparation, demonstrated in your statement of purpose or research proposal. Please note that the application for admission, including all supporting materials, becomes the property of GSAS. Prepare your Statement of Purpose or Research Proposal Special Students: Provide a statement of purpose Visiting Fellows: Provide a research proposal Your statement or proposal should be focused, informative, concise, and convey your research interests and qualifications. It should provide a vivid picture of your intellectual profile: how you formulate research topics, how you pursue them, and how you articulate any interesting findings. As you convey this information, it is important to emphasize how these experiences have influenced both your decision to undertake graduate study and your goals within a graduate program. Confirm Letters of Recommendation Special Students: Provide three recommendations Visiting fellows: Provide one recommendation GSAS requires recommenders to use the online recommendation process. Applicants provide the names and emails of faculty members willing to provide letters of recommendation. The recommender will then be prompted to submit their recommendation letter and answer questions about the applicant via an online form. Applicants may not use a recommendation dossier service. Demonstrate English Proficiency special students and visiting fellows: Provide test scores All non-native English speakers must demonstrate their English language proficiency to be accepted. Applicants who have attended a university full-time or have participated in a year-long program in which English is the language of instruction do not need to provide test scores. All other non-native English speakers must provide official test scores from one of the following two tests: Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) - Request that ETS send an official score report to the Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office at the Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences using code 3478 (a department code is not required). Applicants must receive a minimum score of 80; some programs may require a higher score. The International English Language Testing System (the minimum accepted score is 6.5) If you feel that you meet this prerequisite in another way, please explain why in your application. Please note that if you require a J-1 visa and you have not taken the TOEFL nor have attended an English speaking institution, then you may be required to demonstrate adequate English proficiency by means of an official interview before acceptance into the program. Upload Your Transcripts Special Students and Visiting Fellows: Provide transcripts from higher education institutions GSAS requires that you upload a copy of your transcript from each college or university you attended to your online application, as well as transcripts of any previous work done at Harvard or from institutions from which the applicant has received credit for courses taken (whether for a degree or not). If you are reapplying within three years of your original application, you do not need to submit another set of transcripts, but you must add a transcript noting any courses taken for credit as a special student. For Harvard University Division of Continuing Education degree-seeking students, the most recent transcripts should also be requested. You do not need to provide transcripts from high school (secondary school). If your institution does not provide transcripts for current students, request an official letter confirming your current standing with the institution to upload to your application. If you are admitted, you will need to request that the institution send an official copy to GSAS. Foreign transcripts—records of all courses, seminars, and examinations, including grades, scores, grading scales, and conferrals of degrees—must be in English. If records are not available in English, original records must be uploaded with certified English translations. All translations must be literal and complete versions of the original records. If you are accepted as a special student or visiting fellow, you must request that your academic institution send official transcripts to the Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office prior to registration: Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard University Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Please note that materials must be submitted to the Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office and not to the GSAS degree-seeking Office of Admissions; materials will not be forwarded. Submit Supporting Materials If you have supporting materials that cannot be included in the online application, mail them to: Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard University Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138 USA No materials will be returned to the applicant or forwarded to other schools or agencies. Share This Apply Now Applications are accepted twice a year: March 1 for full academic year (September to May) or fall term only (September to December) Admitted students are notified by June 1 October 1 for spring term only (January to May) Admitted students are notified by December 1 Apply as a Special Student Apply as a Visiting Fellow Contact Info Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office special@fas.harvard.edu 617-495-5315 Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College