Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Alumni Volunteer Engage more deeply with students and fellow alumni by serving as a career mentor, convening local alumni, or participating as a member of the GSAA Council. Alumni Ambassadors GSAS Ambassadors are alumni appointed by the GSAA Council to advance the mutual welfare of GSAS and its alumni and students by: Promoting and elevating the stature of GSAS within the alumni and student community through programming and serving on relevant task forces; Providing opportunities for alumni to remain connected to GSAS and to serve the University; Advising advanced GSAS students and recent GSAS alumni on career planning and serving as mentors; Participating in GSAS Welcomes, our annual orientation events, and hosting an opening reception for new GSAS students; Encouraging life-long learning, intellectual enrichment, professional growth, and social interaction through forums of continuing education and development; Serving as a liaison on behalf of GSAS to their local Harvard Club or a Harvard Alumni Association Shared Interest Group; and Attracting the world’s most talented individuals to GSAS and talking with applicants to GSAS who have not yet decided where to enroll for graduate school. Mentoring Register for the Firsthand Advisers platform, where you can provide students and fellow alumni with a burst of expertise through “flash mentoring” activities. Flash mentoring can include: Career chats (30-minute time commitment); Resume reviews/CV critiques (60-minute time commitment); Practice interviews, e.g. behavioral, technical, or case (60-minute time commitment). Share tips on how to navigate the job market, leverage skills developed through a GSAS master’s or PhD program, and craft a resume that showcases talents and achievements. Virtual Coffee Program Engage and share your advice with current GSAS students through the GSAS Virtual Coffee program. This is an informal opportunity for students to “ask alumni anything,” and for alumni to help students make the most of their graduate experience by: Imparting strategies for talking with their advisor; Providing insight into different career paths; Discussing an aspect of their scholarship and research; Sharing your journey at and after Harvard. Sign up today and take advantage of virtual connectivity to meet with a student regardless of your proximity to Cambridge. Alumni Council Contribute your time and talent in service to GSAS as a member of the Graduate School Alumni Association Council. The GSAA Council consists of 42 members committed to advancing the interests of GSAS students and alumni. Through biannual meetings, the Council develops outreach plans, considers student life activities, and nominates fellow alumni for GSAS’s highest alumni award, The Centennial Medal. Council members serve three-year terms, renewable by a re-nomination process, and commit to attending two Council meetings in Cambridge in the fall and spring. Nominations for Council Nominate outstanding alumni to serve on the council by contacting the GSAA with an explanation of why candidates merit selection. Typically, members have achieved success or distinction in their careers and have made significant contributions through community service. Submissions are reviewed by the Nominations Committee of the GSAA Council, with terms beginning in July. Nominations are considered on a rolling basis, so there is no formal deadline, but terms start July 1 of each year. Graduate School Alumni Association Council Alexandra Amati HAA Appointed Director G. Anandalingam Antonio J. Arraiza-Rivera Edgar Barroso Bonnie Bertolaet Lisette Cooper Tony De Fougerolles Stacy Dick Barr Dolan Richard Ekman Yonatan Eyal John C.C. Fan Gerard Frabolot John Golden Nigel Gould-Davies Jiajun Gu Mary Gurak R. Stanton Hales LaVaughn Henry Alison Hill Fiona Hill Karen Hladik Onoso Imoagene Ray Jayawardhana Gyuri Karady Barbara "Ara" Keys Imad Kordab Calvin Lee Edlyn Levine HAA Appointed Director John J. Moon Maury Peiperl David Staines Marianne Steiner Chair, GSAA Council Dennis E. Vaccaro Cammi Valdez Kimberly A. Wagner Nancy Wilker Kristin Wobbe Sean Yu Iosif Zhakevich Gus Zimmerman Share This Contact Info Graduate School Alumni Association Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-5591 gsaa@fas.harvard.edu Jen Flynn Senior Director of Global Outreach 617-495-3907 Send Email Jon Petitt Director of Alumni Relations and Events 617-495-4945 Send Email Monika Song-ngam Coordinator of Alumni Events and Outreach Operations 617-495-5591 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College