Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Student Life Resources The Office of Student Services is the first stop for most students seeking help. The Office serves as the GPS for GSAS, helping students navigate and connect with personal and academic resources. The Office of Student Affairs is the best office to contact if your concerns deal with academic progress or GSAS Policies. Looking for another resource? Choose a category from the drop-down menu or search all resources. Category - Any -Academic ResourcesCareer ResourcesDissertation ResourcesDiversity ResourcesEnrollment ResourcesFamily ResourcesFinancial ResourcesInternational Student ResourcesResearch ResourcesSafety ResourcesStudent Life ResourcesSupport ResourcesTeaching ResourcesTechnology ResourcesTransportation Resources Search Academic Resources Academic Resource Center The Academic Resource Center (ARC) helps students to reach their full academic potential and access the transformative power of education in an inclusive and equitable environment. Accessible Education Office The Accessible Education Office serves as the central campus resource for GSAS students with clinically-documented disabilities. Collaboration Tools Matrix Access a variety of tools to help you collaborate with colleagues and share files online while working remotely. Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning The Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning supports Harvard's teaching community. FAS Registrar's Office The FAS Registrar’s Office maintains academic records for students in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. Global Support Services Harvard Global Support Services provides tools and guidance for students, faculty, and staff that enable them to safely pursue overseas study, work, and research. Harvard International Office The Harvard International Office (HIO) serves the University's international students and scholars and provides information relevant to their spouses, partners, and children. Harvard Library The Harvard Library is the world's largest academic library. GSAS students have direct access to its unparalleled resources. IT Help Portal Harvard University Information Technology's (HUIT) IT Help portal allows users to better access HUIT services. Language Tables Offered through the GSAS Student Center, Language Tables offer students the opportunity to practice language skills with peers in a warm, welcoming environment. Office of Academic Programs The Office of Academic Programs supports GSAS degree programs, the faculty who support and lead... The Writing Oasis The Writing Oasis is organized by the Fellowships & Writing Center to provide a space for accountability, productivity, and peer support in the writing process. Work Securely Everywhere Take these small actions to work securely, no matter where you are. Career Resources Alumni Network With more than 34,000 Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) alumni and 330,000 Harvard alumni worldwide, the Harvard community is an enormous resource for you to explore and connect with. Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. Harvard Innovation Labs The Harvard Innovation Labs enables students to access a network of advisors and resources and discover exciting opportunities in pursuit of innovative ideas and entrepreneurial ventures. Office of Career Services The Office of Career Services (OCS) assists GSAS students and alumni in preparing for their professional futures through individual advising, workshops, guest speakers, and extensive online resources. Scholarly Pursuits Scholarly Pursuits: A Guide to Professional Development during the Graduate Years provides advice on achieving academic success for students and faculty. Student Business Cards GSAS graduate students can order business cards online in blocks of 250, 500 or 1,000. Dissertation Resources Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. GSAS Policies GSAS Policies, previously known as the GSAS Student Handbook describe, the policies and procedures that apply to students enrolled in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Remote Dissertation Defense Tips The Division of Medical Sciences has developed a guide for its PhD students that contains useful information for any graduate program. The guide includes tips on creating Zoom meetings, preparing slides, sharing screens and more. Scholarly Pursuits Scholarly Pursuits: A Guide to Professional Development during the Graduate Years provides advice on achieving academic success for students and faculty. Diversity Resources Accessible Education Office The Accessible Education Office serves as the central campus resource for GSAS students with clinically-documented disabilities. Connecting with a Title IX Resource Coordinator As the two Resource Coordinators working within GSAS, Danielle Farrell and Seth Avakian address issues of sexual and gender-based harassment and work together to carry out the University’s commitment to provide a positive learning, teaching, and working environment for the entire community. GSAS Minority Biomedical Scientists of Harvard GSAS Minority Biomedical Scientists of Harvard (GSAS MBSH) is a graduate student group that aims to... GSAS Underrepresented Scholars in Neuroscience The objective of GSAS USN is to recruit, train, and support GSAS students interested in... Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering at GSAS HGWISE is a GSAS graduate student organization, founded in 2005, dedicated to the personal,... Harvard GSAS Latinx Student Association The Harvard GSAS Latinx Student Association is an intersectional organization committed to building... Harvard LGBTQ@GSAS Association The Harvard LGBTQ@GSAS Association provides a community and safe space for GSAS students who self-... Harvard Puerto Rican Student Association HPRSA is a Harvard-wide group that aims to create an environment of social and professional interactions for students who identify as Puerto Ricans and celebrate Puerto Rican culture. Harvard University Disability Services Harvard University Disability Services provides leadership to University efforts to ensure an accessible, welcoming working and learning environment for individuals with disabilities while ensuring compliance with federal and state regulations. Harvard University Native American Program The Harvard University Native American Program aims to advance the well-being of indigenous peoples through self-determination, academic achievement, and community service. Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging The mission of the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging is--through social, professional development and academic activities, and advising--to recruit and mentor a community of scholars that reflects the ethnic and cultural diversity of our society. W.E.B. Du Bois Graduate Society of GSAS Since its formation in 1983, the W. E. B. Du Bois Graduate Society of GSAS has worked to create an... Enrollment Resources Academic Resource Center The Academic Resource Center (ARC) helps students to reach their full academic potential and access the transformative power of education in an inclusive and equitable environment. FAS Registrar's Office The FAS Registrar’s Office maintains academic records for students in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. GSAS Policies GSAS Policies, previously known as the GSAS Student Handbook describe, the policies and procedures that apply to students enrolled in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. My.Harvard The my.harvard website enables students to search for courses and manage class enrollment including adding, dropping, lotteries, and bidding. Office of Student Affairs The GSAS Office of Student Affairs is responsible for the welfare of Harvard's graduate students. Family Resources Care.com The site helps parents identify babysitters, nannies, child care centers, family day care, camps, tutors, and special needs providers. Childcare and Education With the help of Harvard Neighbors, student-parents can access resources to help with childcare, education, and more. Family Visas Spouses and the unmarried children under 21 of Harvard students or scholars are eligible for dependent visa status. Harvard GSAS Student-Parents Organization The Harvard GSAS Student-Parents Organization is a GSAS student group that works to enrich the lives of parents in GSAS. Harvard International Office The Harvard International Office (HIO) serves the University's international students and scholars and provides information relevant to their spouses, partners, and children. Harvard Student Spouses and Partners Association The Harvard Student Spouses and Partners Association (HSSPA) is a volunteer-run organization open to spouses and partners of Harvard community members to find intellectual stimulation and a sense of belonging within the university. Harvard University Health Services Harvard University Health Services is a multi-specialty medical practice exclusively for members of the Harvard community. Health Insurance for Dependents GSAS students may enroll eligible dependents (married spouse and dependent children) when covered by both the Student Health Fee and the Student Health Insurance Plan. Lactation Support Harvard maintains more than 20 lactation rooms throughout campus to support nursing parents. Office of Student Services The Office of Student Services is the go-to office for GSAS students. As the director of student... Parental Accommodation and Financial Support GSAS offers students enrolled in PhD programs parental accommodation and financial support following a childbirth or adoption event. Talking with children about the Coronavirus This page offers parents insight to children's perception of the impact of COVID-19, as well as recommendations for communicating messages to and supporting their children. Financial Resources CARAT Database for Grants and Fellowships Through the CARAT database, students can access information about grants and fellowships appropriate to graduate and postdoctoral students. Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. Office of Financial Aid The Office of Financial Aid helps students develop a plan that enables them to secure the resources necessary to pursue their graduate education. Parental Accommodation and Financial Support GSAS offers students enrolled in PhD programs parental accommodation and financial support following a childbirth or adoption event. Student Employment Office The Student Employment Office (SEO) works with faculty, the community, and all University departments to connect students with term-time and summer employment opportunities. International Student Resources Academic Resource Center The Academic Resource Center (ARC) helps students to reach their full academic potential and access the transformative power of education in an inclusive and equitable environment. Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning The Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning supports Harvard's teaching community. English Language Conversation Program (ELCP) The Academic Resource Center (ARC) offers an English Language Conversation Program for... Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. GSAS Welcomes: International Summer Institute The GSAS Welcomes: International Summer Institute is a collaboration between the... Harvard International Office The Harvard International Office (HIO) serves the University's international students and scholars and provides information relevant to their spouses, partners, and children. Language Tables Offered through the GSAS Student Center, Language Tables offer students the opportunity to practice language skills with peers in a warm, welcoming environment. Professional Communication Program for International Teachers and Scholars The Bok Center provides support to individuals to develop their oral English proficiency and to international students to improve their communication, speaking, or teaching skills. Research Resources Fellowships & Writing Center The Fellowships & Writing Center helps GSAS students to heighten the impact of their research. Global Support Services Harvard Global Support Services provides tools and guidance for students, faculty, and staff that enable them to safely pursue overseas study, work, and research. Harvard Library The Harvard Library is the world's largest academic library. GSAS students have direct access to its unparalleled resources. Safety Resources Campus Safety Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Availability Connecting with a Title IX Resource Coordinator As the two Resource Coordinators working within GSAS, Danielle Farrell and Seth Avakian address issues of sexual and gender-based harassment and work together to carry out the University’s commitment to provide a positive learning, teaching, and working environment for the entire community. Harvard Ombuds Office The Harvard Ombuds Office supports an ethical and civil culture, encouraging mutual understanding and resolution through respectful dialogue and fair processes. Harvard University Police Department Harvard University Police Department (HUPD) is a full-service police department that includes police officers, detectives, civilian communication dispatchers, and administrative personnel to maintain a safe a secure campus in partnership with the community. Office for Dispute Resolution The Office for Dispute Resolution (ODR) investigates sexual harassment, other sexual misconduct, and gender-based harassment complaints against Harvard students, staff, and faculty members, as well as third parties in association with conduct that occurs on Harvard University property or within Harvard's programs or activities. Sexual Harassment/Assault Resources & Education (SHARE) Counselors Sexual Harassment/Assault Resources & Education (SHARE) counselors provide a range of confidential and privileged services to support individual and community healing from harm, as well as prevention education initiatives designed for Harvard students, faculty, staff, and post-doctoral fellows. Title IX Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Misconduct Policies and Resources No member of the FAS community, on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity shall be denied the benefits of or subjected to discrimination in any University program or activity. Student Life Resources Dining Services Harvard University Dining Services (HUDS) is the oldest collegiate foodservice in America and is a... GSAS Commons Located in Harvard Yard on the first floor of Lehman Hall, the GSAS Commons serves the Harvard... Harvard Athletics GSAS students receive free student memberships at the Harvard Athletic Facilities, which includes... Harvard Speak Harvard Language Revealed Each university has its own vernacular and Harvard is no exception. Even... Harvard University Housing Harvard University Housing offers students from across the University a wide variety of properties... Office of Residential Life The Office of Residential Life serves as the primary housing resource for GSAS students. Their... Outings & Innings Outings & Innings is an internal Harvard University service for employees and other Harvard... Residence Hall Handbook The Residence Hall Handbook is designed to familiarize you with the rules and regulations... Spring 2021 Residential Community Agreement The Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) aims to provide a residential environment... Support Resources Center for Wellness and Health Promotion The Center for Wellness and Health Promotion (CWHP) works to cultivate a happy, healthy, and engaged Harvard community through education and the promotion of holistic health. Counseling and Mental Health Services HUHS Counseling and Mental Health Services provides confidential support to students year-round. Grief and Loss Everyone experiences grief in their own way and in their own time. Harvard offers students resources that can help them heal. Harvard Chaplains The Harvard Chaplains represent many of the world’s religious and spiritual traditions and share a collective commitment to serving the spiritual and ethical needs of the students, faculty, and staff of Harvard University. Harvard Ombuds Office The Harvard Ombuds Office supports an ethical and civil culture, encouraging mutual understanding and resolution through respectful dialogue and fair processes. Harvard University Health Services Harvard University Health Services is a multi-specialty medical practice exclusively for members of the Harvard community. Managing Fears and Anxiety This page identifies common reactions to the Coronavirus outbreak and offers tips on how to manage fears and anxiety, as well as coping strategies during this evolving situation. Managing Stress This page offers tips for identifying and managing stress, staying connected with others during social distancing and self-isolation, and practicing good sleep hygiene. Office of Work/Life The Office of Work/Life administers a variety of programs that provide resources for child care, after-school programs, public or private schools, or elder care. Sexual Harassment/Assault Resources & Education (SHARE) Counselors Sexual Harassment/Assault Resources & Education (SHARE) counselors provide a range of confidential and privileged services to support individual and community healing from harm, as well as prevention education initiatives designed for Harvard students, faculty, staff, and post-doctoral fellows. Taking Care of Your Behavioral Health This page defines common language used to refer to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak, identifies common reactions to the outbreak, and offers tips for social distancing, quarantining, and isolation. Teaching Resources Accessible Education Office The Accessible Education Office serves as the central campus resource for GSAS students with clinically-documented disabilities. Central Application for Teaching Sections The Central Application for Teaching Sections (CATS) is a tool academic departments use to make teaching fellow (TF) opportunities visible to graduate students. Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning The Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning supports Harvard's teaching community. GSAS Policies GSAS Policies, previously known as the GSAS Student Handbook describe, the policies and procedures that apply to students enrolled in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Harvard Library The Harvard Library is the world's largest academic library. GSAS students have direct access to its unparalleled resources. IT Help Portal Harvard University Information Technology's (HUIT) IT Help portal allows users to better access HUIT services. Professional Communication Program for International Teachers and Scholars The Bok Center provides support to individuals to develop their oral English proficiency and to international students to improve their communication, speaking, or teaching skills. Technology Resources Academic Technology for FAS Academic Technology for FAS provides expert advice, consulting, training, development, and support. Collaboration Tools Matrix Access a variety of tools to help you collaborate with colleagues and share files online while working remotely. IT Help Portal Harvard University Information Technology's (HUIT) IT Help portal allows users to better access HUIT services. Work Securely Everywhere Take these small actions to work securely, no matter where you are. Transportation Resources Bike Share Program Use Blue Bikes (formerly known as Hubway) to travel across Boston, Cambridge, Somerville and Brookline. Harvard Transportation & Parking Harvard provides safe and reliable transportation and parking for the University community, including shuttle and van service, fleet management, and the award-winning CommuterChoice Program. MBTA Semester Pass Program Students at the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences can purchase semester MBTA local bus, link (bus and subway), or commuter rail passes (all zones) at a 50 percent discount. Shuttle Buses Shuttle buses serve the Cambridge and Allston campuses and the Longwood Medical Area. Traveling to Harvard Looking for directions? You can get to Harvard's main campus by plane, rail, bus, or car. Share This Contact Info We want you to succeed personally and academically while studying in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Everyone at GSAS is dedicated to helping you meet the unique challenges of advanced study at Harvard. GSAS Offices Alumni Relations GSAS Student Center Office of Academic Programs Office of Diversity and Minority Affairs Office of Financial Aid Office of Residential Life Office of Student Affairs Office of Student Services Title IX Office Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College