Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Alumni Access As a GSAS alumnus, you can access benefits to help you advance your career and connect with other alumni. Library Access Sign up for access to library resources, including electronic resources, professional journals, and visiting privileges. Career Resources Check out the resources offered by the Office of Career Services and the Harvard Alumni Association. From resume guides to interviewing tutorials, these resources can help you as you build your career. Mentoring Connect to career mentoring from fellow alumni through the Firsthand Advisers platform. Transcript Services Order copies of your Harvard transcript through the FAS Registrar’s Office. Harvard Directory Search for fellow alumni through the Harvard Directory. Harvard Online Courses Keep learning: Check out the courses available. Share This Update Your Contact Info Stay in touch. Connect with the Harvard alumni community. Update contact info Stay Connected Leaving Harvard doesn't mean leaving behind all the great scholarly resources you tapped as a student. As an alum, you can still access: JSTOR and Project Muse for journal articles and book reviews The Oxford English Dictionary and many other online reference works PubMed for references and abstracts on life sciences and biomedical topics Best of all, you can still search Harvard's collections and visit the libraries. Learn More about Alumni Library Access Contact Info Graduate School Alumni Association Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-5591 gsaa@fas.harvard.edu Jen Flynn Senior Director of Global Outreach 617-495-3907 Send Email Jon Petitt Director of Alumni Relations and Events 617-495-4945 Send Email Monika Song-ngam Coordinator of Alumni Events and Outreach Operations 617-495-5591 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College