Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Writing Consultations Individual writing consultations are geared toward improving the overall argument, structure, and style of your papers, chapters, or fellowship essays. We do not provide line editing or English language proofreading. Letting your writing specialist know in advance what you would like to work on is key. GSAS students are eligible to schedule one writing consultation per week, dependent upon availability. Appointments are filled on a first-come, first-served basis. To request that a writing specialist meet with you, please complete our FWC intake form, to which you should attach your piece of writing. Students are welcome to submit drafts that are at any stage of completeness: very rough drafts are fine, as are more polished pieces or papers that students are preparing for publication. Appointments generally take 30 minutes for fellowship essays and one hour for other types of writing. Oral Presentation Consultations The FWC staff also provides consultations on practice oral presentations—conference papers, dissertation defenses, job talks, and more. We evaluate your content (structure, argumentation, etc.), style (clarity, concision, smooth transitions, etc.), and use of visuals. During the academic year, please book a slot for your practice presentation, which are held every Friday during the academic year from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m; during the summer, please email us at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu to schedule an appointment. Share This Contact Info How do I make an appointment? Interested in receiving advising on fellowships? Sign up for an appointment with Dr. Jeannette Miller. Would you like feedback on a piece of writing? Complete the FWC intake form and one of our writing specialists will schedule an appointment with you. Struggling with the writing process but don’t yet have a draft to send? Brainstorm with us during office hours. Looking for advice on oral presentations? Get feedback from the FWC staff by signing up for Practice Presentations, held every Friday during the academic year from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Have a question not covered here? Email the FWC at gsas-fwc@fas.harvard.edu, including your graduate program and G year. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College