Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Application Components and Requirements Application Applications are submitted through the GSAS Applicant Portal. You can access the application by clicking the apply button on the apply page. Please note all supporting materials and required components must be submitted electronically as part of the application. The application for admission, including all supporting materials, becomes the property of GSAS. No materials will be returned to the applicant or forwarded to other schools or agencies. GSAS may request additional academic documents, as needed. If your program's admissions committee determines that another graduate program is well-matched to your academic interests, it may forward your application to that program for consideration. Application Fee: $105 GSAS is committed to ensuring that our application fee does not create a financial obstacle for prospective applicants. Waivers are available to those for whom payment of the application fee would be financially challenging. Applicants can determine eligibility for a fee waiver by completing a series of questions in the Application Fee section of the application. Once these questions have been answered, the application system will provide an immediate response regarding fee waiver eligibility. Transcripts Applicants are required to upload transcripts from each institution attended as part of their application. We do not accept mailed or email transcripts during the application submission and review process. Any transcripts sent during this time will be discarded. Official transcripts are only required from those who have been admitted and accepted the offer of admission. Instructions for submitting official transcripts will be provided in spring/summer prior to enrollment. Transcripts from international institutions must be in English or be accompanied by a certified English translation. All translations must be literal and complete versions of the original records. International transcripts should include: Courses, seminars, and examinations taken Grades, scores, and grading scales Confirmation of degree conferral and date Fall Grades: Applicants currently enrolled in a college or university may be required to submit fall grades. Visit your program of interest in Degree Programs for more information. Should you wish to update your submitted application with fall grades, you may do so using the Fall Grade Report in the GSAS Applicant Portal. Letters of Recommendation Before applying, confirm that three faculty members or others qualified to evaluate your potential for graduate study have agreed to submit letters of recommendation on your behalf. At least one letter should be from a faculty member at the school where you earned your most recent degree, unless you have been out of school for more than five years. Letters of recommendation must be submitted by the application deadline. Your recommenders must submit their letters through the recommender portal: GSAS does not accept letters submitted via email, mail, or a dossier service. By law, enrolled students have the right to view their letters of recommendation unless they indicate otherwise at the time of application. Please note on your application whether you are waiving your right to see these letters. Learn more about your right to inspect letters of recommendation. Statement of Purpose The statement of purpose is very important to programs when deciding whether to admit a candidate. Your statement should be focused, informative, and convey your research interests and qualifications. You should describe your reasons and motivations for pursuing a graduate degree in your chosen degree program, noting the experiences that shaped your research ambitions, indicating briefly your career objectives, and concisely stating your past work in your intended field of study and in related fields. Your degree program of interest may have specific guidance or requirements for the statement of purpose, so be sure to review the degree program page for more information. Unless otherwise noted, your statement should not exceed 1,000 words. GRE Your degree program will note one of three options regarding submission of scores for the GRE General Test (GSAS also accepts scores from the GRE General Test at Home). Required: You must submit GRE General Test results. Optional: You may submit GRE General Test results if you wish. Not Accepted: Do not submit GRE General Test results. GRE General Test scores will not be considered when applications are reviewed. Sending GRE Scores When taking the GRE, you will have an opportunity to request that your scores be sent to your academic institutions of choice. Be sure to select Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, as each Harvard admissions office has its own ETS school code. GRE score reports must be sent to GSAS by the application deadline. Use ETS code 3451 to send GRE scores to Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (department code is not required). GRE scores are valid for five years (scores must be from no earlier than September 1, 2016, for fall 2022 admission). An official score report from Educational Testing Service (ETS) is required, however, if you have personal score reports available from tests taken within the last five years, you can upload them to your application. Some degree programs also require GRE Subject Tests. Visit your degree program page of interest for more information. Demonstration of English Proficiency Adequate command of spoken and written English is essential to success in graduate study at Harvard. Applicants who are non-native English speakers can demonstrate English proficiency in one of three ways: Receiving an undergraduate degree from an academic institution where English is the primary language of instruction.* Earning a minimum score of 80 on the Internet based test (iBT) of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)** Earning a minimum score of 6.5 on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic test.** A master’s degree is not accepted as proof of English proficiency. *Special note for applicants with an undergraduate degree from a US institution where English was not the primary language of instruction: if a portion of your program was conducted in English, you may petition for a waiver of the TOEFL/IELTS requirement. Contact admiss@fas.harvard.edu for details. **Some degree programs may require a higher score on either the TOEFL or IELTS. Visit your degree program page of interest for more information. Sending TOEFL/IELTS Scores When taking the TOEFL or IELTS, you will have an opportunity to request that your scores be sent to your academic institutions of choice. Be sure to select Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, as each Harvard admissions office has its own identification or school code. Score reports must be sent to GSAS by the application deadline. Use ETS code 3451 to send TOEFL scores to Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (if a department code is required, use code 99). Send IELTS scores to Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences via the IELTS Test Center E-Delivery service. TOEFL/IELTS scores are valid for two years (scores must be from no earlier than September 1, 2020, for fall 2022 admission). GSAS accepts scores from iBT TOEFL, TOEFL Home Edition, IELTS Academic, or IELTS Indicator. An official TOEFL score report from Educational Testing Service (ETS) is required, however, if you have personal score reports available from tests taken within the last two years, you can upload them to your application. Writing Sample Your degree program of interest will note if a writing sample is required and if there are any specific requirements regarding format, topic, or length. Harvard Integrated Life Sciences (HILS) Applicants While prospective students are encouraged to carefully choose the HILS program that best fits their academic goals, interested applicants may apply to up to three programs and pay only one application fee. If you elect to apply to three programs, only two may be programs in the Department of Medical Sciences (these programs are Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics, Biological and Biomedical Sciences, Immunology, Neuroscience, Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology, and Virology). The fee waiver for additional applications is ONLY available for those applying to multiple programs in the HILS federation. For more information please consult the HILS page. See Completing Your Application for information about fee waivers related to financial hardship. Share This Contact Info Questions? Application questions: admiss@fas.harvard.edu Phone Hours: Monday and Wednesday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. — 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time Tuesday, 2:00 p.m. — 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time 617-496-6100 Financial Aid or Supplemental Data Section questions: Office of Financial Aid gsasfinaid@fas.harvard.edu Degree program questions: If you still have questions after carefully reviewing your degree program of interest, reach out to the contact noted on the program’s page. Office of Diversity and Minority Affairs: minrec@fas.harvard.edu. Please note: Harvard University is closed December 20 through 31, 2021. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College