Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search Colloquy Magazine Download PDF Archives March 14, 2022 Diversity, Profile, Research, Social Sciences The Preciousness of Air "Air should be something everybody has." Beaudry and her 2018 video piece, Flashbacks. That simple revelation came to Ellie Beaudry when she was in high school in Shanghai. China ranks 137 out of 180 countries on Yale University’s Environmental... March 14, 2022 Diversity, Profile, Research, Science As Below, So Above Chidi Akusobi wrapped his fingers around the edge of the rock and lifted. Underneath, worms, pillbugs, and many other insects darted and wriggled. The young man was enthralled. He had discovered an entire community of life in his family’s Bronx, New... March 14, 2022 Profile, Research, Social Sciences Deprogramming the Apocalypse A PhD student in economics whose work incorporates moral philosophy and theories of justice, Hitzig says that when institutions choose one algorithm over another, they aren’t merely making a technical fix like a civil engineer improving a bridge; they’re making a normative judgment, choosing one set of values over another. In her academic work and her poetry, she lays bare the costs of these choices and offers new ways of making decisions and distributing resources in a democratic society. March 14, 2022 Alumni, Profile, Social Sciences At the Nexus of Science, Society, and Survival In this interview, Charles Weiss , PhD ’65, discusses his new book, The Survival Nexus , and says that the fate of humanity may well depend on its ability to understand and manage the intersection of science, technology, and world affairs. March 14, 2022 Alumni, Humanities, Profile Charting the Economics of Life An associate professor of evolutionary anthropology at Duke University, Herman Pontzer, PhD ’06, is one of the world’s foremost authorities on metabolism and its development throughout human history. In this interview, the author of the bestselling 2021 book, Burn , talks about how we really burn calories, lose weight, and stay healthy. Share This Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College