Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Programs of Study Combined Degrees GSAS enables students to coordinate their studies for an additional advanced degree. Combine your PhD with an MD For careers in biomedical science requiring an MD and PhD, visit the MD-PhD program at Harvard Medical School. Combine your PhD with a JD Through this program, you'll receive a JD from Harvard Law School and a PhD from Harvard GSAS. Learn more about the Coordinated JD/PhD program. Combine your MBA with a master of science GSAS partners with Harvard Business School (HBS) on two joint degree programs that confer an MBA from HBS and a master of science from GSAS: Learn more about the MS/MBA: Engineering Sciences program with the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Learn more about the MS/MBA Biotechnology: Life Sciences with the Harvard Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology. Combine your Harvard College AB with an AM or SM Information about advanced standing can be found on the Office of Undergraduate Education website. Eligible Harvard College students may apply to GSAS, typically in the fall of their junior year, to earn an AM or SM degree through the Concurrent Master's program during their final year of undergraduate study. Next Steps Review information about the Concurrent Master’s program from the Office of Undergraduate Education (OUE) and information about the intended master’s program. Use the Concurrent Master’s Planning Worksheet (available for download on the Concurrent Master's page of the OUE website) to develop a detailed plan to fulfill the degree requirements for the intended master’s program. Engage in advising conversations with their resident dean, the director of undergraduate studies (or equivalent) for their concentration, and the director of graduate studies for their intended master’s program to discuss the additional workload required for the concurrent master’s degree. Review the admissions information on the GSAS website, including application instructions. Submit an application to GSAS. The application deadline for the AB/AM and AB/SM is the same as the published deadline for the GSAS program of interest. Eligible Programs Chemistry and Chemical Biology Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) Applied Math Applied Physics Computational Science & Engineering Computer Science Engineering Sciences (including Bioengineering, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Science & Engineering, and Materials Science & Mechanical Engineering) Germanic Languages and Literatures Linguistics* Mathematics Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Physics Regional Studies—East Asia Regional Studies—Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia (REECA) Statistics *This program has not yet been approved for admission; however, if you are interested, you should contact the Linguistics program for more information. Share This Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College