Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Alumni Current Students and Recent Graduates Don't wait until after graduation to connect with GSAS alumni! With more than 34,000 Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) alumni and 330,000 Harvard alumni worldwide, the Harvard community is an enormous resource for you to explore and connect with. Current students can: Engage with more than 200 regional clubs around the world when you are traveling for research or when you are back in your home city. Connect to more than 50 shared interest groups, such as Harvard Alumni Entrepreneurs and Harvard First Generation Alumni, to engage with alumni around issues and affinities you are passionate about. These groups focus on everything from cultural, religious, and gender identities to professional interests and are open to students as well as alumni. Join the Firsthand Adviser Platform to connect to GSAS alumni mentors who are willing to have career conversations, conduct mock interviews, or review your resume as you approach the job market or explore internships. Attend events and panels featuring Harvard alumni to build your network with leaders and innovators across all sectors. Tap into the Harvard directory to gain access to Harvard’s 330,000 alumni around the world, and find alumni in by industry, specialty, company, Harvard School, class year, and more using the search function. Find us on Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter to connect with alumni through our social channels. Alumni News May 25, 2022 Alumni John Kamm: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation The massacre at Tiananmen Square and the political detentions that followed were a shocking turning... Read More May 25, 2022 Alumni Vicki Sato: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation Very few people have had as profound an impact developing life-saving medicines—and... Read More May 25, 2022 Alumni Robert Zimmer: 2022 Centennial Medal Citation It takes a uniquely distinguished leader to step up as a national champion for the core values of... Read More Pages 1 2 … Next Share This Engage What did you do to take a break from your academic work? Let us know! Email gsaa@fas.harvard.edu Contact Info Graduate School Alumni Association Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-5591 gsaa@fas.harvard.edu Jen Flynn Senior Director of Global Outreach 617-495-3907 Send Email Jon Petitt Director of Alumni Relations and Events 617-495-4945 Send Email Monika Song-ngam Coordinator of Alumni Events and Outreach Operations 617-495-5591 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College