Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Diversity Outreach Programs Other Summer Programs There are many ways to participate in research at Harvard during the summer. GSAS administers the Summer Research Opportunities at Harvard (SROH) program, but you may be interested in other programs at Harvard's many schools and affiliated hospitals. Other Summer Programs Other Harvard Programs Harvard-Amgen Scholars Program Harvard-Amgen Scholars will conduct novel biotechnology-focused research with Harvard scientists over the course of a 10-week summer internship. Interns will have the opportunity to interact closely with faculty through scholarly and pre-professional development activities including a Distinguished Faculty Lecture Series and Biotechnology Journal Club. They will also gain critical exposure to tools for effective science communication, proposal writing, and graduate school preparation, and will have opportunities to explore the Boston area through a variety of social activities and outings. Currently, enrolled undergraduates interested in pursuing a bioscience PhD or the MD/PhD are eligible to apply, especially those from underrepresented and diverse backgrounds. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. Housing on Harvard’s Cambridge campus, travel, meal allowance, and a stipend are provided. Harvard Stem Cell Institute (HSCI) Internship Program (HIP) The Harvard Stem Cell Institute Internship Program (HIP) provides an opportunity for Harvard and non-Harvard undergraduates to gain direct experience in stem cell research while working in a Harvard Stem Cell Institute (HSCI) laboratory under the supervision of an experienced researcher. Interns participate in a mandatory stem cell seminar series and a career pathways presentation and present their summer research findings at the HIP Symposium in August. Candidates must express a strong interest in stem cell biology; previous lab experience is desirable, but not required. Approximately 35 students are selected by competitive review for this 10-week internship. A stipend is provided. Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences The Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) is a 10-week program that introduces undergraduates to bioengineering, materials research, nanoscience, and engineering while providing a coordinated, educational, and dynamic research community that inspires them to seek a graduate degree. REU research opportunities are arranged in conjunction with the Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC), the Center for Nanoscale Systems (CNS), the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, as well as other Harvard-based engineering and science entities. Professional development workshops, faculty seminars on research and ethics, and community activities are integrated into the program. Students receive a stipend and housing. Center for Astrophysics Solar Research Experience for Undergraduates Program Scientists from the Solar and Stellar X-Ray Group (SSXG) and the Solar, Stellar, and Planetary Group (SSP) at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA) host undergraduate students from around the US. For 10 weeks these students will participate in cutting-edge astronomical research about the Sun and the heliosphere and learn the skills necessary for a successful scientific career. Projects range from data analysis to computer modeling to instrument building. Special seminars will be held to increase students' public speaking and computer programming skills. Students will learn from experience about scientific research and how to apply their academic work to real-world problems. Some time will also be devoted to exploring Cambridge, MA and the surrounding area. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. A stipend, housing, and travel costs are provided. Please visit the website for more information. The Banneker Institute and Aztlán Institute Summer Program The Banneker Institute and Aztlán Institute summer programs are full-time, 10-week research and study experience. We prepare undergraduate students of color for graduate programs in astronomy by emphasizing research, building community, and encouraging debate and political action through social justice education. We offer housing, a competitive stipend, and reimbursement for travel. Our programs target undergraduate juniors from backgrounds historically marginalized from academia and the astronomical sciences in particular. While we accept students from all backgrounds, our application review process considers historical injustices and the tendency for traditional application review practices to reproduce racial disparities in academia. Please visit the website for more information. Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology The Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology is an 11-week research program that allows students to participate in ongoing research at the Harvard Forest in Petersham, MA. Projects focus on the effects of natural and human disturbances on forest ecosystems, including global warming, hurricanes, forest harvesting, and invasive organisms. Researchers come from many disciplines, and specific studies center on population and community ecology, paleoecology, land-use history, phenology, biogeochemistry, soil science, ecophysiology, and atmosphere-biosphere exchanges. Students work with mentors from Harvard and collaborating institutions. Responsibilities may include field sampling, laboratory studies, data analysis, and scientific writing. In addition, students attend seminars given by nationally known scientists and workshops on career and graduate school preparation. At the end of the summer, students present their research results by writing an abstract and presenting their findings at a student research symposium. The program provides room, board, and a competitive stipend. Programs at Harvard Medical School Summer Honors Undergraduate Research Program (SHURP) at Harvard Medical School Summer Honors Undergraduate Research Program (SHURP) is a 10-week summer research program primarily for college students belonging to groups that are underrepresented in the sciences. In addition to laboratory-based research with Harvard Medical School faculty, the program includes research and career development seminars and a peer mentoring program. Stipend, housing, and travel are provided. Administered by the Division of Medical Sciences (PhD programs office) at Harvard Medical School every year since 1991, SHURP is offered for currently enrolled undergraduates who are considering careers in biological or biomedical research sciences, who have already had at least one summer (or equivalent term-time) of experience in a research laboratory, and who have taken at least one upper-level biology course that includes molecular biology. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. Systems Biology Summer Internship Program The 10-week Systems Biology Summer Internship Program enables interns to work on research projects spanning many scientific fields, including systems biology, biophysics, bioinformatics, genomics, applied mathematics, and computation. Participants learn a range of cutting-edge techniques in the exciting and dynamic research environment of the FAS Center for Systems Biology and the Department of Systems Biology at Harvard Medical School. Participants must be US citizens or permanent residents. Individuals from underrepresented minority and economically-disadvantaged groups are especially encouraged to apply. Cell Biology Research Scholars Program (CRSP) The Cell Biology Research Scholars Program provides a 10-week full-time research opportunity to undergraduate students with a passion for scientific discovery and fundamental biology. Students will be hosted by faculty investigators to work on cutting-edge research projects and participate in training workshops and mentoring activities in preparation for a productive scientific research career. A stipend is provided, but scholars are responsible for travel, housing, and meals. Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Summer Scholars Program The Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology (BCMP) Summer Scholars Program is a 10-week program designed to provide hands-on laboratory research experience to motivated undergraduates with a strong interest in pursuing graduate studies focused on molecular mechanisms in biology. The program offers students the opportunity to gain experience in hands-on laboratory research; to interact with faculty, postdoctoral fellows, graduate students, and other summer interns; to attend weekly presentations by department members on specific research projects and cutting-edge research tools; and to improve their presentation, writing, and communication skills. Participating laboratories cover a broad range of basic and disease-oriented research topics using the analytical tools of biochemistry, molecular genetics, biophysics, chemical biology, and structural biology. A stipend is provided, but students are responsible for travel, housing, and meal accommodations. Summer Undergraduate Program in Immunology at Harvard Medical School The 10-week Summer Undergraduate Program in Immunology exposes undergraduate students to current topics in immunology. Students participate in a combination of weekly lectures and laboratory work with faculty, graduate students, and postdoctoral fellows from the Harvard Medical School Immunology Graduate Program. Participants from colleges in which the topic is not taught or presented in-depth are especially welcome, and individuals from underrepresented minority groups are especially encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to students who are in their sophomore or junior year. A stipend is provided, but the program is unable to assist with travel, housing arrangements, or visas for students. Summer Institute in Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School Summer Institute in Biomedical Informatics, now entering its 15th year, is a 9-week full-time extensive research opportunity with a curriculum including didactic lectures, clinical case studies, a mentored research project, and presentation of findings. The program is for undergraduates with quantitative interests and skills who aspire to contribute to translational advances in biomedicine with a future PhD or research-oriented MD or MD/PhD. A stipend, housing, and a travel allowance are provided. If you are an undergraduate with a strong quantitative background and interested in innovation and methodological rigor in your approach to scientific inquiry in biomedicine or in the translation of computational methods to engineering/software applications in medicine, this is the summer program for you! The Four Directions Summer Research Program The Four Directions Summer Research Program (FDSRP) provides an opportunity for talented Native American undergraduates to explore careers in the medical profession under the guidance and supervision of staff from Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital. The FDSRP is an 8-week summer research opportunity offered to undergraduate and first-year medical students with a commitment to the health of Native American communities. Interns engage in basic science or translational research projects under the supervision of Harvard Medical School faculty advisors. Students also receive career development training, meet faculty from across the hospital and medical school, and participate in a variety of social networking events. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. A stipend, housing, and travel costs are provided. Newborn Medicine Summer Student Research Program The Newborn Medicine Summer Student Research Program is sponsored by the Harvard Program in Neonatology for students interested in clinical aspects and research in Newborn Medicine. During the 8-12 week program, students are guided by faculty and fellow mentors from the program with the goal of providing undergraduate and medical school students with intensive clinical and laboratory research. As part of the program, the students will have the opportunity to observe newborn care in the hospital nurseries, clinics, and neonatal intensive care units. Partial funding is available for students participating in the program. Harvard Summer Research Program in Kidney Medicine Based at Harvard Medical School, the Harvard Summer Research Program in Kidney Medicine is an 8-week research-intensive experience that provides undergraduates interested in science or medicine an introduction to nephrology, and an overview of basic and clinical science. At the end of the program, students will have the opportunity to present their research at a national student symposium. Stipend and housing are provided. Research experience is preferred, but not required. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. Programs at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health Summer Program in Biological Sciences in Public Health The Summer Program in Biological Sciences in Public Health at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health is an 8-week laboratory-based biological research program for undergraduates belonging to underrepresented groups during the summer following their sophomore or junior years. The program exposes college students to the rewards of laboratory research directed towards solving important public health problems such as infections (malaria, TB, parasites), cancer, lung diseases, multifactorial, multigenic, and common diseases of aging, diabetes, and obesity. Scientific approaches include regulation of cell growth and gene regulation, cellular metabolism, DNA modification, cellular signaling, and structure-function analyses. The overall mission of the program is to prepare qualified students for graduate-level training leading to research careers in the biological sciences. Summer Program in Epidemiology The Summer Program in Epidemiology at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health is an intensive 5-week program that integrates mathematics and quantitative methods to provide students with an understanding of the skills and processes necessary to pursue a career in public health. The program recruits undergraduates belonging to underrepresented groups for graduate-level training. Areas of study include cancer prevention, infectious disease, environmental and occupational health, nutrition, and more. Students will participate in an introductory course in epidemiology and biostatistics, faculty lectures, a research project led by faculty or post-doctoral fellow, and networking opportunities. Travel, lodging, a stipend, and frequent meals are provided. Multidisciplinary International Research Training (MIRT) Program MIRT is a national program designed to encourage students to pursue careers in biomedical and behavioral research providing support for undergraduate and graduate students to do health-related population-based research and training in developing countries including Zimbabwe, Ethiopia, Vietnam, Thailand, Republic of Georgia, Peru, Mexico, Ecuador, Chile, and Australia. Trainees get knowledge of scientific literature associated with projects, biomedical research ethics, and cultural aspects with a focus on how these aspects affect public health issues as well as scientific and medical issues. Research opportunities are designed collaboratively with faculty in these institutions to address health and health disparities pertinent to their countries. Summer Program in Biostatistics & Computational Biology at the Harvard School of Public Health The Summer Program in Biostatistics & Computational Biology is an intensive 6-week introduction to biostatistics, epidemiology, and public health research. Based at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, this program is designed to introduce qualified undergraduates and post-baccalaureates to the use of quantitative methods for biological, environmental, and medical research, and to demonstrate the application of quantitative methods to the study of human health. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. Programs at Harvard’s Affiliated Hospitals Summer Research Trainee Program (SRTP) at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) The goal of the 8-week Summer Research Trainee Program (SRTP) is to provide underrepresented minority students with an overview of opportunities available in biomedical research and clinical medicine. Students are assigned to Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) laboratories or clinical sites where they undertake original research projects and prepare presentations of their work under the mentorship of an MGH investigator. In addition to this research experience, students will attend weekly seminars, career development workshops, and networking events. The program is open to underrepresented minority students who have completed at least three years of college or who are first-year medical students; no prior research experience is necessary. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. Housing, meals, and a stipend are provided. Summer Training in Academic Research and Scholarship (STARS) Program at Brigham and Women’s Hospital The STARS Program provides underrepresented minority (URM) undergraduate and first-year medical students with a strong interest in pursuing advanced careers as research scientists, physicians, and/or health care professionals with an opportunity to engage in basic, clinical and translational research projects during an 8-week summer program at Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH) and Harvard Medical School (HMS). Interns participate in a research project under the supervision of an HMS faculty mentor. Additional activities include "Research 101" education and training sessions, social networking opportunities, weekly roundtables with BWH Faculty and the Office for Multicultural Faculty Careers, and community health center/clinic shadowing. U.S. citizenship or permanent residency is required. Housing, travel, and a stipend are provided. Continuing Umbrella of Research Experiences (CURE) at Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center (DF/HCC) The Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center (DF/HCC) Continuing Umbrella of Research Experiences (CURE) program introduces Massachusetts high school and undergraduate students from underrepresented minority populations to cancer research. Each year CURE selects several students to participate in full-time 8- to 12-week summer internships. Interns are assigned individual mentors, who oversee their research and offer guidance. In addition to working on a research project, participants benefit from various program activities, such as a comprehensive orientation, scientific research and professional development seminars, journal club discussions, networking, and social events. Applicants must demonstrate an interest in pursuing a biomedical or health-related research career. Students receive a weekly stipend. Brigham Research Institute Undergraduate Research Summer Internship Program The Brigham Research Institute’s Summer Undergraduate Research Internship Program provides an excellent opportunity for undergraduates across the United States to gain a focused, challenging, and hands-on research experience in a basic science or clinical laboratory setting. Interns can choose from a wide variety of host labs doing exciting work in areas related to cardiovascular, immunology, musculoskeletal, neurobiology, and sex differences research. During the 10-week internship program, students can take advantage of educational and professional development offerings on the Brigham & Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School campuses as well as participate in a central curriculum associated with the program. Students will present their research findings in a mini-research symposium at the end of their training period. Share This Contact Info Sheila Thomas Dean for Academic Programs and Diversity 617-495-5315 Send Email Karina Gonzalez Herrera Associate Director of Diversity and Minority Affairs, Division of Medical Sciences and GSAS Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College