Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Student Life January@GSAS January@GSAS is a flexible series of events and workshops offered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and designed to help graduate students build skills and take advantage of the winter break. Don't miss this exciting opportunity! January@GSAS promotes a variety of programming to the GSAS community, from academic and professional development workshops to cultural, recreational, and community-building opportunities. This year, January@GSAS will be held Monday, January 10 through Friday, January 21, 2022. Programs offered include the GSAS Student Council's January@GSAS mini-courses, which are classes designed and taught by GSAS students, events and workshops held by University offices, and social events hosted by student leaders, including the GSAS Student Center fellows. GSAS Student Council Mini-Courses One of the mainstays of January@GSAS is the GSC's mini-courses, where GSAS students create the two-week course of their dreams and share it with the community (explore previous year's courses here). Courses can be related to a student's research interests or stem from their personal talents and hobbies—they don't have to be academic in nature. The GSC even provides generous funding to support a limited number of especially promising proposals. The result is an experience that is both enriching in terms of professional development and incredibly fun for everyone! All students currently enrolled in GSAS are invited to apply on Engage! The deadline to apply is November 24, 2021, by 5:00 p.m. EST. Application Materials: Contact information Course title Course description Course syllabus A few short response questions Jointly organized courses only need to submit one application. If you would like help with your application, the GSC has partnered with the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning to set up a workshop for prospective applicants to ask questions, get tips, and polish their syllabi! The GSC Mini-Course Application Workshop (with the Bok Center) will take place on November 8, 2021, more details to come on Engage. Campus Partner Programs Fellow offices and campus partners are invited to share their January programs, winter session seminars, workshops, and events with us and be a part of January@GSAS! All January@GSAS programs are planned and carried out by the host office but will be shared with our student population via Engage, where they can read the program description, RSVP, and explore the many ways to get involved remotely. The deadline to submit programs is November 24, 2021, by 5:00 p.m. EST. If your office is already on Engage: When creating events on Engage, please add the January@GSAS Engage organization as a co-host and choose the “January@GSAS” event tag. If your office is not currently on Engage: Submit your event information via the Engage submission form and our team will add it to the calendar of events. GSAS Student Center Fellows and Student Groups Programs Student leaders can co-host events with the January@GSAS Engage organization and tag events “January@GSAS” to appear on the Engage calendar. Join events held by the GSAS Student Center fellows and the GSAS student groups hosted during January@GSAS! Share This Contact Info Learn more about January@GSAS through the GSAS Engage website. Questions? Contact the GSAS Student Center. Jackie Yun Executive Director, GSAS Student Center 3rd floor, Room 305 GSAS Student Center 617-495-2255 Send Email Janet Daniels Senior Program Coordinator 3rd floor, Room 308 GSAS Student Center 617-495-2255 Send Email Jeff Shenette Senior Program Coordinator 3rd floor, Room 306 GSAS Student Center 617-495-2255 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College