Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search The Colloquy Podcast The Colloquy podcast is a conversation with scholars and thinkers from Harvard's PhD community on some of the most pressing challenges of our time—from global health to climate change, growth and development, the future of AI, and many others. Listen in! Episodes Episode 9: The Graduate Student Mental Health Crisis In the May 2022 episode of GSAS’s Colloquy podcast, we take a deep dive into the graduate student mental health crisis with Dr. Emily Bernstein, PhD ’20, a clinical psychologist at Massachusetts General Hospital's Center for Digital Mental Health. Full Transcript Episode 8: The Forgotten Earthquakes that Reshaped America The New Madrid earthquakes that rocked the present-day states of Missouri, Arkansas, Kentucky and Illinois from December 1811 to February 1812 reshaped not only the landscape but also the history of the United States. So why were the quakes all but forgotten by the time of the Civil War? What caused them and could they happen again? Full transcript Episode 7: Russia, Ukraine, and Avoiding World War III In this special episode of Colloquy, two alumni experts on eastern Europe and national security discuss the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Full Transcript Episode 6: Why Exercising More May Not Help You Lose Weight Evolutionary anthropologist Herman Pontzer, PhD '06, explains why the calories we burn every day stay within a fairly narrow range whether we’re gym rats or couch potatoes. Full Transcript Episode 5: The Black Agenda In the February episode of Colloquy, we discuss The Black Agenda is a new collection of essays that centers the voices and ideas of Black experts on climate change, public health, economic inequality, education, and many other challenges. Full Transcript Episode 4: Inclusion, Justice, and Love in an Apocalyptic Moment As the Christmas holiday approaches, Rev. Dr. Matthew Ichihashi Potts, PhD ’13, speaks about a Christian ethics that is at odds with white supremacy and cultural hegemony. Full Transcript Episode 3: “We Have Our Medicine”: Trauma and Resilience in Indigenous Communities In the November episode of the Colloquy podcast, the sociologist Blythe George, PhD '20, explores the vibrance of rural indigenous communities amid the trauma that is the legacy of settler colonialism. Full Transcript Episode 2: Who’s Afraid of Inflation? GSAS alumna Betsey Stevenson, professor of public policy and economics at the University of Michigan and a member of the Council of Economic Advisers during the Obama Administration, gives her take on how worried consumers should be about inflation. Full Transcript Episode 1: The Incredible Shrinking Vaccine Efficacy In the inaugural episode of the GSAS Colloquy podcast, alumnus Michael Lin, a microbiologist and professor at Stanford University, says vaccination mandates are the path out of the COVID-19 pandemic and shares his concerns about the decline in vaccine efficacy over time. Full transcript Share This Contact Info Subscribe to Colloquy Apple podcasts SIMPLECAST Spotify Stitcher About the Show Produced by GSAS Communications in collaboration with Harvard's Media Production Center, the Colloquy podcast continues and adds to the conversations found in Colloquy magazine. New episodes drop each month during the fall and spring terms. Talk to Us Have a comment or suggestion for a future episode of Colloquy? Drop us a line at gsaspod@fas.harvard.edu. And if you enjoy the program, please be sure to rate it on your preferred podcast platform so that others may find it as well. Paul Massari Associate Director of Communications 617-384-7874 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College