Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Financial Support Fellowships Fulbright US Student Program GSAS students are encouraged to apply for the Fulbright US Student Program for study or research in over 140 countries worldwide with a focus on cultural exchange through direct interactions with members of the host community. The fellowship is offered by the Institute of International Education (IIE) on behalf of the US Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Applying for the Fulbright US Student Program involves several steps in coordination with GSAS, which reviews applications submitted to the IIE, schedules interviews with applicants, and finally releases submitted applications to IIE for consideration. Consequently, GSAS campus deadlines are before the Fulbright deadline in October. To register for the Fulbright US Student Program application process and join the applicants’ Canvas site, email Dr. Jeannette Miller at the beginning of the application cycle in May. When deciding to apply, students should choose one of three options: Participate in the Fellowships & Writing Center feedback process (Deadline A) to receive three rounds of feedback. The intent form for an advising appointment must be submitted by June 24, 2022, at 5:00 p.m. ET. Participate in the Fellowships & Writing Center feedback process (Deadline B) to receive one round of feedback. The intent form for an advising appointment must be submitted by August 8, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. ET. Complete the application on their own and submit it to the Fulbright online application portal by the GSAS campus deadline of September 7, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. ET. See Application Process below for more information. Eligibility and Preferred Qualifications Applicants must be enrolled in GSAS and be US citizens or nationals at the time of application. Please review the ineligibility section on the Fulbright website regarding the eligibility of dual citizens. Applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree or the equivalent before the beginning date of the grant. Applicants may not hold a doctoral degree (except an MD or a JD) at the time of application. Applicants must meet the language requirements of the award to which they are applying and demonstrate sufficient competency to complete their project and adjust to life in the host country. Preference is given to candidates who have not resided or studied in the country to which they are applying for more than six months, not counting undergraduate study abroad. For most programs, applicants who have had extensive, recent previous foreign experience in the host country are at a competitive disadvantage but are still eligible to apply. Candidates who have received most of their undergraduate education at institutions in the US will receive preference. Foreign study during the junior year or other periods of undergraduate study that are integral parts of the curricula of American institutions will not be considered a disadvantage. Strong preference is given to students who have not previously held a Fulbright grant. Tenure and Stipend Most grants are awarded for programs of study or research over an academic year. Grantees are affiliated with institutions of higher learning in the host countries. In most cases, graduate students are engaged in independent research and are responsible for arranging their own institutional affiliations. For further details on institutional options, see the individual country summaries. The stipend includes: Roundtrip transportation to the host country Funding for room, board, and incidental costs, based on the cost of living in the host country Accident and sickness health benefits In some countries, grants may also include: Book and research allowances* Mid-term enrichment activities Full or partial tuition Language study programs Pre-departure and in-country orientations * Grantees with projects requiring extensive research support, in-country travel, study materials, or equipment should explore additional funding from other sources to supplement the Fulbright funding. Application Process Enrolled GSAS students interested in being considered for the Fulbright US Student Program must submit a completed application to the Fulbright online application portal by the GSAS campus deadline of Wednesday, September 7, 2022. Students who meet the campus deadline will be invited for an interview in the second half of September. After the interview, GSAS will forward submitted applications to the IIE for consideration. To apply, you should: Visit the IIE website to learn more about the Fulbright US Student Program, as well as the countries to which you may apply. Attend a Fulbright information session (typically late May) and a Fulbright essay writing workshop (typically late June and early August). Dates are advertised in the Fellowships & Writing Center newsletter. Email Dr. Jeannette Miller in late May to request access to the Fulbright Canvas site, which is how GSAS disseminates information and collects materials. Choose an application submission option and observe the appropriate deadlines: Participate in the Fellowships & Writing Center feedback process (Deadline A*) to receive three rounds of feedback. Deadline A requires that you submit your intent form for an advising appointment by 5:00 p.m. ET on June 24, 2022, then the first draft of your Statement of Grant Purpose (SOP) by 9:00 a.m. ET on July 11, 2022. You will receive three rounds of feedback on your SOP and two rounds of feedback on your Personal Statement (PS). Participate in the Fellowships & Writing Center feedback process (Deadline B*) to receive one round of feedback. Deadline B requires that you submit your intent form for an advising appointment by 9:00 a.m. ET on August 8, 2022, then the first draft of your SOP and your PS by 9:00 a.m. ET on August 22, 2022. You will receive one round of feedback on both essays. Complete the application on your own and submit it to the Fulbright online application portal by September 7, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. ET. *If you do not submit essays for either deadline, you may still apply for the Fulbright by meeting the campus deadline, but the FWC won’t offer you feedback on your materials. Application Materials The Fulbright application includes: Completed application form, including short answer questions A two-page, single-spaced Statement of Grant Purpose and a one-page, single-spaced Personal Statement Three references, to be uploaded by the referees One PDF containing transcripts from each institution you attended A letter of affiliation from the professor at your host institution whom you will work with For candidates applying to non-Anglophone countries, a Foreign Language Evaluation completed by a professional language teacher (or for less commonly taught languages, a professor who is fluent in the language) and a Language Self Evaluation Form. Applicants in the creative and performing arts must submit samples of their work. Human Subjects Research Research projects that include an element of risk to human subjects must be reviewed by the Committee on the Use of Human Subjects, which is the Institutional Review Board (IRB) for the University. Information about the committee, its definition of “risk,” its meeting schedules, and the committee application form can be found on the IRB website. Selection Criteria Applicants are judged by: Quality and feasibility of the proposal. This takes into consideration: the level of the applicant’s training to do the project, and the resources of the host country or institution for doing the project Applicant’s academic or professional record Applicant’s personal qualifications, with special emphasis on maturity and adaptability to a different cultural environment and ability to represent the US abroad Language preparation Extent to which the candidate and the project will help to advance the Fulbright aim of promoting mutual understanding among nations through engagement in the host community, among other activities Requirements of the program in individual countries Desirability of achieving wide institutional and geographic distribution Selection and Notification IIE’s National Screening Committee, consisting of specialists in various fields, makes recommendations to the supervising agencies abroad for applications for further review. Applicants will be notified of their status in the preliminary stage of the competition by late January. Final selection of grantees is made by the Board of Foreign Scholarships. Winners, alternates, and non-selects will be notified during the spring. Share This Contact Info Jeannette Miller Executive Director, Fellowships & Writing Center Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College