Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Student Life Coronavirus January and Spring 2022 Checklist As Harvard community members, we have a collective responsibility to keep one another safe and healthy. On this page, you will find a checklist that outlines your responsibilities for spring 2022. Planning is essential: if you live with roommates, consider these best practices for approaching a conversation about developing contingency plans. Spring 2022 Checklist Review Harvard’s campus access information for students On the Keep Harvard Healthy website, you can find information on campus access for students. Please be sure to review this information carefully to understand your responsibilities. Students in programs based at other Harvard Schools should also ensure that they understand additional local guidance. Review Masking Requirement The University has updated its indoor masking guidance to allow for optional face coverings in many situations. Visit Keep Harvard Healthy for more information. Students in programs based at other Harvard Schools should also ensure that they understand additional local guidance. Noncompliance may lead to removal from a classroom or other indoor location; repeated noncompliance may lead to restriction of access to buildings, notification to graduate program administration, or referral to the GSAS Administrative Board for disciplinary action. Participate in optional COVID-19 testing, if desired The University has announced a phased transition to optional COVID-19 testing. If you live off campus, you are no longer required to participate in regular COVID-19 testing as of April 28, but you may continue to test if you wish. Residential students will transition to optional testing on May 10, until then you are expected to follow your standard weekly testing cadence. If you experience COVID-19 symptoms or have a known exposure, you should continue to test: Symptomatic testing remains important while COVID continues to circulate in the community. A critical step in this process is to create a Color account: you must use the Harvard email address noted in Crimson Clear. If you have questions about creating your Color account, please email support@color.com. If you have questions related to testing, please email GSASTestingCompliance@fas.harvard.edu. Report external positive tests If you test positive using a test external to Harvard, you must report your positive result through Crimson Clear by following the steps below. HUHS also provides information on testing, exposure, isolation, and quarantine. Go to Crimson Clear. Click on “View Self-Assessment,” then “Begin Self-Assessment.” Select symptoms you are experiencing and click on “Continue.” On the next screen, you will be asked: “In the last 14 days, have you been closer than 6 feet indoors (for at least 15 minutes) to anyone who tested positive for COVID-19?” Answer “Yes” to this question. On the next screen, you will be asked: “In the past 14 days, have you been diagnosed with COVID-19?” Answer “Yes” to this question. Complete the attestation. Email GSASTestingCompliance@fas.harvard.edu so that GSAS can pause your testing cadence (you will still receive messages from Color). You are not required to confirm a positive antigen test result with a PCR test confirmation. Pick up and drop off tests You can pick up test kits at locations associated with your graduate program. Please drop off your completed tests in a test collection bin on the same day you test, as soon after taking the test as possible. Prior to depositing your completed test kit, please be sure to type the bar code numbers from your test kit tube into the “activate kit” screen in Color. FAS Science Center, located at 1 Oxford Street, near the security desk Northwest Labs, located at 52 Oxford Street, at the main entrance facing the museums Knafel Building, CGIS North, 1737 Cambridge Street Barker Center, 12 Quincy Street Lamont Library, 11 Quincy Street SEAS Allston: in the lobby of the SEC at 150 Western Avenue Cambridge: in the lobby of the Maxwell Dworkin Building at 33 Oxford Street HSPH At the FXB or Kresge security stations (entrances) GSD In the vestibule of Gund Hall at the Quincy Street entrance between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. HGSE Gutman Library HKS Wexner Building HMS Present your HUID to pick up test kits in the ground floor lobby of the New Research Building at 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur (please note that hours may be altered during holidays): Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. HBS Present your HUID to pick-up tests from: Aldrich Hall, ground floor, HBS Security, 24/7 Chao Center, first floor, guest services desk, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday to Friday Shad Fitness Center counter from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday to Friday Spangler Center, second floor, MBA desk, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday to Friday Contact HUHS if you develop symptoms of COVID-19 If you develop symptoms of COVID-19, you must self-quarantine and notify Harvard University Health Services via Crimson Clear. You should continue to test: Symptomatic testing remains important while COVID continues to circulate in the community. Review GSAS’s COVID-19 policy Be sure to review the COVID-19 policy noted in the GSAS Policies section of the website. Share This Contact Info Questions? For University-wide updates and guidance about the virus, visit Keep Harvard Healthy. Questions about vaccines, immunization records, or anything else health or health insurance–related? Visit Harvard University Health Services. Looking for emotional support? Contact Counseling and Mental Health Services. If you need assistance connecting with CAMHS or navigating community support, please reach out to the Office of Student Services. Have a question or concern not addressed here? The Office of Student Services can help connect you with resources. If you feel sick Use Crimson Clear to report potential symptoms of or exposure to COVID-19. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College