Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Advising Best Practices GSAS has developed advising best practices that you can incorporate into your advising interactions, whether you are an advisor or advisee. Since its launch, The Advising Project has engaged in conversations with students, faculty, and administrators across programs about what constitutes effective advising and has reviewed recommendations from academic literature and research on advising. Below are five best practices that faculty, students, and graduate programs should enact to enhance the advising experience. No one expects an advisor to be an expert on every subject, but advisors are expected to act as an effective guide, directing their advisees to other resources as appropriate. Advisees, similarly, should not expect a single advisor to guide them equally well on all of their concerns and should develop a strong network of support. Create a Respectful and Inclusive Environment Graduate programs and research groups should promote a climate where all students and faculty can thrive. This means creating an environment where members are supported and feel a sense of belonging. Faculty should be especially sensitive to power dynamics and should provide support to advisees as developing scholars and unique individuals. Graduate students should be similarly aware of the power dynamics in their roles as teaching fellows or mentors to other students. Clearly Communicate Expectations Students and advisors should engage in transparent, recurring conversations about expectations and outline mutual expectations in areas that include frequency of meetings, communication preferences, and response times for written feedback. Oral or written agreements of mutual expectations should be used to make hidden expectations explicit, thereby limiting assumptions that could derail the advising relationship (see examples in the Resources section). Milestones should be clearly communicated and included in program materials. Progress towards the degree should be regularly reviewed. Engage Multiple Mentors In addition to the primary advisor, students at all stages of their graduate career should be supported by an advising village that includes multiple mentors. Faculty and staff should support students in identifying additional mentors to meet their academic and professional goals such as secondary advisors, committee members, directors of graduate studies, or other staff members. All students, faculty, and staff should be aware of and encouraged to use GSAS and University resources. Promote Professional Development Students should be provided with the support and tools needed to develop the skills required to successfully navigate their graduate careers and to prepare them for their chosen profession. Faculty and staff should support career exploration and identification of relevant career resources. Foster Well-being All members of the community should foster an environment that encourages appropriate care for each individual’s mental and physical health. Faculty should engage in active listening, keeping in mind that many students have expressed that they are not comfortable opening up about their challenges. Advising can encompass a range of conversations, and although not every advisor will feel able to talk in detail about every issue, they should be responsive when an advisee expresses a need for support in the areas of mental or physical health. GSAS and University resources can help. The Advising Project News August 27, 2021 The Advising Project, Professional Development Fostering a Welcoming Community At Harvard since 2014, Christopher Rycroft , John L. Loeb Associate Professor of Engineering and Applied Sciences, won a Mendelsohn Award this year for his excellence in student mentorship.Read More August 27, 2021 The Advising Project, Professional Development Favorite Part of the Job Erica Kenney , assistant professor of public health nutrition, is one of the recent winners of the Mendelsohn Awards , a student-led award that honors GSAS faculty for their excellence in mentorship.Read More August 27, 2021 The Advising Project, Professional Development Taking Mentorship Very Seriously At Harvard since 2017, Hannah Marcus , assistant professor of the history of science, is one of the recent winners of the Mendelsohn Awards , a student-led award that honors GSAS faculty for their excellence in mentorship.Read More Pages 1 2 … Next Share This Contact Info Reach out to The Advising Project to share an advising experience, ask questions, or get information about mentorship presentations and skill-building workshops for your community. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College