Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search Admissions We are always seeking talented students of diverse backgrounds and interests. We hope you'll join us. We're delighted that you are interested in pursuing an advanced degree at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). Harvard has a long-standing tradition of convening the world's brightest and most dedicated scholars. Today, we carry on that tradition by actively seeking applicants from historically underrepresented communities. We hope you'll consider applying. GSAS admits students based on their potential to make contributions through their scholarship to their chosen field, whether in academia or in a nonacademic career. Harvard does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, national origin, political beliefs, veteran status, or disability unrelated to job or course of study requirements. Immigration status does not factor into decisions about admissions and financial aid. For more information, see Undocumented at Harvard. Apply Learn how to apply for admission to our master's and PhD programs.Read more Tuition and Fees All GSAS students are charged tuition based on a tiered tuition structure that reduces over time as students progress through their degree program. Students in PhD programs and some master's programs receive grants and fellowships that cover this cost.Read more Express Interest in Graduate Study GSAS welcomes applications for admission from individuals holding a BA, BS, or equivalent undergraduate degree (for prospective international students, a three- or four-year undergraduate degree from an institution of recognized standing) and actively seeks applicants from groups historically...Read more Why GSAS? A Tradition of Academic Excellence Since it was first established at Harvard in 1872, GSAS has grown into a leading institution of graduate study, awarding the PhD and select master’s degrees in 58 degree programs that connect students with all parts of Harvard University. Today, GSAS students...Read more Related Resources Campus Safety Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Availability Share This Contact Info Office of Admissions admiss@fas.harvard.edu Phone Hours: Monday and Wednesday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. — 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time Tuesday, 2:00 p.m. — 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time 617-496-6100 Please note: Harvard University is closed December 20 through 31, 2021. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College