Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Programs of Study Non-Degree Programs Each year, we welcome to our diverse academic community a select group of non-degree scholars from around the globe as special students and visiting fellows. Special Students Individuals with academic or professional reasons for pursuing graduate-level study without entering a degree program may apply for special student status and engage in coursework or a combination of coursework and research for academic credit, for one term or one year only. While they are not candidates for any degree, special students are much like first-year graduate students; they participate in coursework and may request an official Harvard transcript of courses and grades received. As a special student, you are admitted to GSAS and have access to most student privileges. You are eligible to enroll in graduate or undergraduate courses, depending on your academic record. You must hold a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent and must present evidence of fitness for admission at the graduate level. Full tuition is charged and you are not eligible for institutional financial aid. Tuition cannot be waived or reduced. Harvard Extension School ALB and ALM Candidates Harvard Extension School students working toward an ALB or ALM degree who wish to take courses not offered at Harvard Extension School or Harvard Summer School may enroll as a GSAS special student, taking two courses per term for one academic year. To qualify, candidates must earn a minimum number of Harvard Extension School credits with a specific GPA and obtain recommendations from their program director and two Harvard Extension School instructors. For more information, ALM candidates should review the Special Student Information Sheet and ALB candidates should review Special Student Procedures. Visiting Fellows Scholars intending to conduct independent research who hold a doctorate, have equivalent professional experience, or are advanced doctoral candidates who have completed all required coursework, may apply for visiting fellow status at GSAS. Visiting fellows are considered full-time research students, with access to Harvard University’s libraries and facilities, and may apply for membership in the Harvard Faculty Club. While visiting fellows do not take courses for academic credit, they may audit courses with the approval of the instructor and seek faculty guidance as they conduct independent research. Please note that visiting fellows are normally not permitted to audit basic skills courses such as beginning languages or computer science. In order to be considered for visiting fellow status, a scholar should note in their application the name of any faculty members with whom they intend to work and reference any communication with faculty members or academic departments. While visiting fellows are occasionally invited by departments or research centers to participate in seminars or other organized activities, they are expected to conduct their research independently. Visiting fellows must formally register as students each semester of attendance and are required to follow the GSAS academic calendar. Visiting fellows are charged reduced tuition, which may not be waived, and they are not eligible for institutional financial aid. Please note that visiting fellow status is full time. Apply to Non-Degree Programs Admissions Checklist—Special Students and Visiting Fellows In your application, you should demonstrate strong educational reasons for studying at GSAS, providing evidence of academic strength, personal integrity, and your level of academic preparation, demonstrated in your statement of...Read more Programs of Study and Course Selection Before applying for special student or visiting fellow status, scholars should select one department to affiliate with based on their academic interests. While applicants seeking more interdisciplinary opportunities may choose the General Studies Program, GSAS reserves the right to send an...Read more Special Students & Visiting Fellows FAQ We've collected a list of frequently asked questions to help you with your transition to GSAS. Special Students Can I affiliate with more than one department or program? Special student applicants must choose one department or program with which to affiliate based on their...Read more Application Deadlines Applications are accepted twice a year: March 1 for full academic year (September to May) or fall term only (September to December) Admitted students are notified by June 1 October 1 for spring term only (January to May) Admitted students are notified by December 1 How to apply Contact Info Special Students and Visiting Fellows Office Phone: 617-495-5315 Email: special@fas.harvard.edu Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College