Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Student Life Coronavirus Community Expectations Community Expectations Related to COVID-19 To keep Harvard community members safe and healthy and to ensure that the physical campus remains open, we all have a shared responsibility to act prudently, safely, and in accordance with public health directives. The Community Expectations Related to COVID-19, outlined below, represent the heart of this collective project by promoting and mandating safe practices among all members of the GSAS community. Note that these expectations may be updated and revised to reflect additional guidance from city, state, and federal governments, as well as public health officials, if necessary. As a GSAS student, you agree to: Follow University guidance regarding vaccinations, access to campus, physical distancing, masking, testing and tracing, quarantine and isolation, hygiene, and travel. If you experience COVID-19 symptoms or have a known exposure, you should continue to test: Symptomatic testing remains important while COVID continues to circulate in the community. You agree to utilize your assigned testing account and not allow others to access that account. (Students who submit tests for other people under their account or under any other account may be referred to the GSAS Administrative Board.) Share truthful information with Harvard University Health Services, if requested. Violation of COVID-19 protocols will be considered a serious violation and may be addressed by GSAS, which may include referral to the administrative board and restriction of access to campus spaces and resources. Follow these expectations not only for one’s own health, but also to protect and safeguard the health of others, including staff, faculty, researchers, and others who learn, research, work, and live in our community. Abide by new protocols that arise as life on campus and public health guidance across the country evolve, and as new testing and tracing methods emerge. Community Accountability The GSAS dean of students and/or GSAS Administrative Board will review serious infractions related to these expectations, such as a refusal to undergo testing or failure to abide by isolation or quarantine terms. The GSAS Title IX Resource Coordinators work together with the aim of removing barriers to disclosure of sexual harassment and misconduct. To encourage students to share information and seek support, GSAS will ordinarily not hold them accountable for violations of the Community Expectations related to COVID-19 if those violations also include allegations of sexual misconduct or harassment. Share This Contact Info Questions? For University-wide updates and guidance about the virus, visit Keep Harvard Healthy. Questions about vaccines, immunization records, or anything else health or health-insurance-related? Visit Harvard University Health Services. Looking for emotional support? Contact Counseling and Mental Health Services. If you need assistance connecting with CAMHS or navigating community support, please reach out to the Office of Student Services. Have a question or concern not addressed here? The Office of Student Services can help connect you with resources. If you feel sick Use Crimson Clear to report potential symptoms of or exposure to COVID-19. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College