Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Academics Commencement The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences holds Commencement activities once a year in conjunction with Harvard University’s Commencement in May. November 2021, March 2022, and May 2022 degree recipients participate in this one festive occasion marking the transition from student to alumni. Harvard University Commencement and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Commencement activities will take place on Thursday, May 26, 2022. If you are a 2020 or 2021 graduate, please visit the Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 for details on your ceremony. Commencement activities provide an enthusiastic din of celebration with many thousands of people in and around Harvard Square to mark the occasion. The University's COVID-19 guidance for on-campus activities continues to be adjusted and many of the restrictions put in place over the past two years have been lifted with limited exceptions. As you plan to attend Commencement festivities, we expect that you and your guests will read all upcoming communications from GSAS and the University to ensure you are up to date on the current policies, and generally understand that protocols are subject to change to align with public health guidance. For more details on the current University policies, please visit Harvard’s Environmental Health & Safety website. Commencement Schedule GSAS Dean’s Reception, Wednesday, May 25, 2022 4:00 p.m⎼5:30 p.m. Dean Emma Dench will host a reception for degree candidates and their guests, GSAS Commons, GSAS Student Center. *RSVP required Commencement Day, Thursday, May 26, 2022 (Times are approximate, subject to change, and may overlap. Specific locations for the processions are forthcoming.) 6:45 a.m. Harvard Yard gates open for all guests. 6:45 a.m. All degree candidates gather at the Lawns at Richards Hall, behind Perkins Hall, 33–35 Oxford Street. 7:15 a.m. GSAS parades down Oxford Street to the Old Yard. 8:00 a.m. Degree candidates line up for the academic procession next to Thayer Hall in the Old Yard. 8:35 a.m. Advanced degree candidates begin processions into Tercentenary Theatre. 9:45 a.m. Morning Exercises of Commencement begin in Harvard Yard. Morning Exercises include student orations, conferral of all degrees (not diploma distribution), the Commencement Speaker Jacinda Ardern, and presentation of Honorary Degrees. *tickets required 12:00 noon The GSAS Diploma Awarding Ceremony in Sanders Theatre (diploma distribution) begins immediately following the Morning Exercises . Each student marching at the ceremony may request two guest tickets for Sanders Theatre. The Diploma Awarding Ceremony will be simulcast on large screens at the Science Center Lecture Halls A–E and on the GSAS website. *tickets required 12:00 noon Champagne reception and luncheon begins on the Lawns at Richards Hall, behind Perkins Hall, 33–35 Oxford Street, and continues until approximately 3:00 p.m. for all degree recipients and their guests. *tickets required 4:00 p.m. PhD Hooding Ceremony for Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS).** 5:15 p.m. Graduate Hooding Ceremony for Division of Medical Sciences (DMS) graduates.** **Additional registration with individual program required. Live Broadcast for Morning Exercises and Diploma Awarding Ceremony A Commencement live broadcast in the Science Center will show the Morning Exercises and the GSAS Diploma Awarding Ceremony in Sanders Theatre. The ceremonies will also be streamed live on the GSAS website. The Commencement Morning Exercises will be broadcast live via Comcast Cable (Channel 283) in Boston/Brookline and Cambridge/Greater Boston. This ceremony will also be streamed live on Harvard’s Commencement website and at various locations across campus. Security Security measures are in effect for Harvard's Commencement. All degree candidates who are attending Commencement must visibly display their Harvard identification (ID) cards or Harvard Yard passes before being granted admission to Harvard Yard. GSAS will distribute Commencement lanyards (a cord with an attached pouch to be worn around the neck) to degree candidates when they pick up their Commencement tickets. Lanyards allow degree recipients to display their ID cards visibly and gain speedier access to Harvard Yard. Degree recipients who are unable to pick up their lanyard and tickets before Commencement Day may obtain them on the day at the GSAS Information Tent at 33 Oxford Street. Please be aware that additional security may be in place at the entrance gates for Commencement guests, and delays can be expected. Ticket Pick-Up Degree candidates must pick up their tickets in person, with photo identification, during the week of Commencement. Final times and locations are posted below. Tickets cannot be mailed. Friday, May 20, 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m., GSAS Student Center (Lehman Hall), Harvard Yard Monday, May 23, 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m., GSAS Student Center (Lehman Hall), Harvard Yard Tuesday, May 24, 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m., GSAS Student Center (Lehman Hall), Harvard Yard Wednesday, May 25, 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m., GSAS Student Center (Lehman Hall), Harvard Yard Thursday, May 26, 7:00 a.m.–2:30 p.m., GSAS Information Tent, Maxwell Dworkin, 33 Oxford Street Ticket Ordering Commencement for GSAS students consists of four major and ticketed activities. Tickets may be ordered for the Morning Exercises, Diploma Awarding Ceremony, and the GSAS luncheon between April 1 and April 27. Tickets must be picked up by the student ordering the ticket themselves during ticket pick up the week of Commencement. Tickets are required for all guests age one (1) and older. Event Ticket Allocation GSAS procession to Tercentenary Theatre degree candidates only degree candidate ID & lanyard serves as ticket The Morning Exercises of Commencement in Tercentenary Theatre two guest ticket maximum degree candidate ID & lanyard serves as ticket GSAS Diploma Awarding Ceremony in Sanders Theatre PhD and terminal Master's candidates only two guest ticket maximum degree candidate ID & lanyard serves as ticket GSAS Champagne Reception and Luncheon one complimentary for degree candidate, $20 per person for additional tickets For reasons of capacity and safety, there are strict limits on the number of tickets. GSAS degree candidates must order their tickets in advance online between April 1 and April 27, 2022. Additional tickets may be available for the Morning Exercise and the GSAS Diploma Awarding Ceremony to degree candidates following the ticket request period through a waiting list lottery. AB/AM and AB/SM degree candidates participate with Harvard College and their undergraduate houses in receipt of the AB degree, which is conferred last during the morning exercises. AB/AM and AB/SM candidates are not eligible to participate in GSAS commencement activities or receive guest tickets for any commencement activities through GSAS. Regalia Orders Academic regalia is required for degree candidates in the Morning Exercises of Commencement and the GSAS Diploma Awarding Ceremony. Your Harvard ID is required both when ordering your regalia online and picking it up in-store. PhD candidates can pick up their rental regalia at the Harvard Coop (Harvard Square location) between May 19 and May 26. No reservations or pre-orders are needed for PhD rentals. More information is available here. Master's rental regalia and all purchase orders through the Harvard COOP were due on Saturday, April 9. Affinity Graduation Celebrations Affinity graduation ceremonies are student-led, staff-supported events that aim to recognize and celebrate the accomplishments of graduates from historically marginalized and underrepresented communities. These events provide an opportunity for graduates to honor those who have helped them achieve their milestones while centering their cultural traditions and values. Championing student organizations plan the ceremonies, hosted by the Harvard community. In 2022, Harvard will host six affinity graduation ceremonies. They are: Wednesday, May 23 AAPI/APIDA Graduation, 7:00 p.m., Tercentenary Theater — Register Now Tuesday, May 24 Black Graduation, 3:30–5:30 p.m., Sanders Theatre Latinx Graduation, 7:00–9:00 p.m. at Sanders Theatre Next Gen (FGLI+) Graduation, 9:30–11:30 a.m., Harvard Memorial Church Lavender Graduation, 1:00–3:00 p.m., Harvard Divinity School Thursday, May 26 Harvard University Native American Program (HUNAP) Indigenous Graduation, Time TK, Sheraton Commander Hotel These celebrations offer keynote speakers, performances, and cultural celebrations in addition to the Harvard University Commencement and School-based ceremonies. Please visit the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging for more information. Orations Competition The Commencement 2022 Student Orations Competition selects three graduating students to speak at the Morning Exercises, including one representative to represent all graduate students from all Harvard’s graduate and professional schools. Check out the Commencement Orations Competition website for more information. Accessibility and Visas General information for guests with disabilities can be found on the University’s Commencement website. Due to the large number of people in Tercentenary Theatre for the Morning Exercises, and the very limited number of seats for guests in wheelchairs in Sanders Theatre for the Diploma Awarding Ceremony, some guests with mobility issues do find the simulcast facilities in Maxwell Dworkin or the Science Center preferable. Any requests for participant or guest accommodation should be made on the Commencement ticket request form once available. Families of international students sometimes experience difficulty obtaining visas to attend Commencement. Family members who will require US visa stamps must apply to a US embassy or consulate far in advance to complete the process in time. International students who received a November 2021 or who will receive a March 2022 or May 2022 degree may request that the Dean's Office send an invitation letter to their family; this letter may facilitate the granting of a visa. To request a letter, please email the GSAS Office of Student Affairs at least three weeks before your family’s appointment with the embassy or consulate. Photos and Videos Commencement photographs can be ordered directly from Commencement Photos, Inc., by using the commencement photographs order form mailed to your home address on file with the FAS Registrar. Video of the Morning Exercises and Diploma Awarding Ceremony will be live-streamed on the GSAS website and posted online following the event. Previous Ceremonies On May 27, 2021, Harvard University convened online for the Honoring the Harvard Class of 2021 virtual program and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences followed with a Graduation Recognition Ceremony where each participant's name was read and recognized. Watch on Youtube On May 28, 2020, Harvard University convened online for the Honoring the Harvard Class of 2020 virtual program and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences followed with a Graduation Recognition Ceremony where each participant's name was read and recognized. Watch on Youtube Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Harvard University and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences will host celebrations for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 on Sunday, May 29, 2022. For more details and updates on the university-wide program, please visit Harvard’s Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021...Read more Share This Contact Info Please contact the GSAS Office of Alumni Relations at gsaa@fas.harvard.edu for general assistance. Visit Harvard’s Commencement website for details on the University-wide program. Online ticket ordering was available for GSAS degree candidates between April 1 and April 27, 2022. Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College