Skip to main content MENU Home Faculty & Staff Alumni Forms Contact New Students Search This Site Admissions Programs and Departments Ph.D/Master's Application Process Non-Degree Application Process Contact Academic Requirements Academic Calendar Policies Registration & Courses Teaching Fellows & Requirements Prospectus & Qualifying Exams Dissertations Certificates GSAS Commencement Schedule Resources for Students Finances & Fellowships Advising & Mentoring Teaching Support & Development Writing & Communication Skills Career Support & Development Conduct, Professional Ethics & Reporting Misconduct Exchange Programs Student Life & Community Life Skills & Personal Development Health & Wellness Student Governance Student Organizations Housing & Life in New Haven International Student Resources Families - Spouses, Partners & Children Diversity Office for Graduate Student Development & Diversity For Current Students For Prospective Students Dean's Office A Message from the Dean Mission Statement Staff Directory Committees Ask the Dean Graduate School Awards & Prizes News GSAS Photo Galleries History of the Graduate School Guidance for International Students If you are an international applicant to a Ph.D. or Master's degree program, you have the same general requirements as all other applicants. Note: Applicants to a non-degree program, including Exchange Scholars, Visiting Assistants in Research, and Visiting Students, should visit the relevant page for information about admission to those programs. Bachelor's Degree or International Equivalent All entering students must have earned a bachelor's degree or its international equivalent prior to enrolling at the Graduate School. You may submit an application before receiving your degree, or while your degree is still in progress, so long as the degree will be completed prior to matriculation. Some countries grant an undergraduate or bachelor's-equivalent degree in three years. In such cases, completion of a three-year degree will meet the application requirement. English Language Testing (TOEFL/IELTS) TOEFL or IELTS is required of almost all applicants whose native language is not English. If you have received (or will receive) an undergraduate degree from a college or university where English is the primary language of instruction, you are exempt from the English Language Test requirement and are not required to submit the TOEFL or IELTS. You must have studied in residence at the undergraduate institution for at least three years to qualify. No exemptions are made on the basis of an advanced degree (e.g. M.A./M.S. or Ph.D.) from any institution. For more information, please see Standardized Test Requirements. Although the Graduate School does not have test minimums for admission, individual departments may have a minimum requirement and will use these scores when they review your application. Please check with the department or program to which you are applying to see if it has a minimum requirement. The Graduate School requires incoming doctoral students who received a score of 25 or below on the TOEFL Speaking section or a 7.5 or below on the IELTS Speaking section to participate in a Summer English Language program at Yale in August prior to matriculation. These students are required to demonstrate English proficiency before they are permitted to teach. Entry Term/Intake All Ph.D. and Master's students begin their studies at Yale in the fall term. No spring term entry is permitted. Application for admission to any of the Graduate School's programs begins in the summer or fall of the academic year prior to the one in which you propose to matriculate. Please submit your application by the program deadline. Visa Questions and Processing The Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) serves as the immigration adviser for all entering international students and their accompanying family members. Beginning in March, OISS will contact you with the necessary visa and immigration information, if you have accepted Yale's offer of admission. GPA and GPA Conversion You may self-report a GPA and GPA scale in the “Academic History” section of the application. Please do not convert or recalculate your GPA, and if your college or university does not report or compute a GPA, you should omit it. Translations All academic records and letters of recommendation uploaded to your application must be in English or accompanied by a translation to English. Fee Waivers International students are eligible to request a fee waiver. Admissions Programs and Departments Ph.D/Master's Application Process Why Choose Yale Graduate School? Dates and Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Tuition, Funding & Living Costs Application Fees & Fee Waivers Guidance for International Students Accommodations for Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances Program Statistics Admissions FAQs Non-Degree Application Process Contact 1861 Yale awarded the first Ph.D. degrees in the United States. Warner House 1 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Yale.edu Accessibility at Yale facebook twitter instagram