Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Alumni Recognize Help GSAS recognize the many accomplishments of our alumni and celebrate their global impact across academia, industry, non-profits, and government. Share Your Achievements! Have you made headlines, received an award, marked a career milestone, or accomplished something noteworthy? Send your news to gsaa@fas.harvard.edu for inclusion in Colloquy, the GSAS alumni magazine, and on the GSAS social media channels. Centennial Medal Help GSAS recognize distinguished master’s and PhD alumni by nominating a candidate for the Centennial Medal, GSAS’s highest honor, which acknowledges alumni who have made outstanding contributions to society, the roots of which are based in their graduate education. Submit your nomination to the GSAA, including your reasons for selecting the candidate along with their CV and bio. All submissions will be reviewed by the GSAA Council’s Medals Committee and senior University officials, whose recommendations are voted on by the Harvard Corporation. Past Centennial Medalists Harvard Alumni Association Awards Recognize distinguished service to the Harvard community by nominating GSAS alumni for the Harvard Medal and the Harvard Alumni Association Award. The Harvard Medal The Harvard Medal recognizes extraordinary service to the University. Extraordinary service can be in as many different areas of University life as can be imagined, including teaching, fundraising, administration, management, generosity, leadership, and innovation. HAA Award The HAA Award recognizes outstanding service to the University through alumni activities and encourages continued commitment to Harvard. Devoted service may be reflected in significant commitment to a Club, Schools and Scholarships Committee, Class, Fund, or other activity substantially benefiting Harvard University. Learn more about the Harvard Alumni Association Awards and nominate GSAS alumni Past Centennial Medalists The Centennial Medal is the highest honor bestowed by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.Read more Share This Update Your Contact Info Stay in touch. Connect with the Harvard alumni community. Update contact info Engage What did you do to take a break from your academic work? Let us know! Email gsaa@fas.harvard.edu Contact Info Graduate School Alumni Association Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-5591 gsaa@fas.harvard.edu Jen Flynn Senior Director of Global Outreach 617-495-3907 Send Email Jon Petitt Director of Alumni Relations and Events 617-495-4945 Send Email Monika Song-ngam Coordinator of Alumni Events and Outreach Operations 617-495-5591 Send Email Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College