Skip to main content Jump to navigation Harvard University - The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences News Events Policies Alumni Access Volunteer Recognize Centennial Medals Current Students Magazine Make a Gift Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Teaching Academic Programs Commencement GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Programs of Study Degree Programs Harvard Integrated Life Sciences Non-Degree Programs Apply to Non-Degree Programs Programs of Study and Course Selection Special Students and Visiting Fellows FAQ Secondary Fields Combined Degrees Admissions Apply Completing Your Application Admissions FAQs Tuition & Fees Express Interest Why GSAS? Financial Support Funding and Aid Federal Student Aid Consumer Information Financial Wellness Other Sources of Funding Special Note Concerning US Income Taxes Financial Aid Staff Fellowships Dissertation Completion Fellowships Fellowships for the Early Years Fulbright US Student Program Fulbright-Hays Program Summer, Research, and Travel Fellowships Financial Aid Policies Financial Support FAQs Academics Advising Best Practices Advising Resources Workshops Advice on TAP Dissertations Fellowships & Writing Center Consultations Fellowships FWC FAQ FWC Workshops On Grants and Prose Writing Oasis Teaching Academic Programs Harvard Horizons GSAS Research Workshops Graduate Consortia Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 GSAS Policies Student Life Resources New Students Housing January@GSAS Student Groups The GSAS Student Center Coronavirus COVID-19 News Community Expectations January and Spring 2022 Checklist Diversity Recruitment Events Student Affinity Groups Outreach Programs Research Scholar Initiative SROH Program Other Summer Programs Diversity Resources Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application About Dean’s Welcome History GSAS at a Glance Staff Contact Search You are here Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Diversity Fellow Application Any GSAS student who is currently a G-2 or above, in good standing, and registered in the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for the 2021-2022 academic year is eligible to apply for one of these positions. The Diversity and Inclusion Fellows work within the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging. Below are duties specific to each role. 1. Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: LGBTQ-focused Supporting the efforts of the GSAS Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging (EDIB) Supporting LGBTQ@GSAS and other EDIB student affinity groups by attending student leadership meetings, participating in recruitment efforts and outreach, and providing administrative and logistical support for student group events Planning and coordinating events for the GSAS LGBTQ+ community Identifying and advocating for needed areas of support for LGBTQ+ students at GSAS Maintaining a calendar of LGBTQ+ events across the University and the LGBTQ@GSAS website Facilitating collaborations between the leadership of LGBTQ@GSAS and other GSAS student affinity groups Interfacing with the GSAS Student Center fellows, GSAS Student Council, and diversity fellows across the University Meeting with LGBTQ@GSAS leadership to discuss issues and plans for increasing efforts related to diversity and inclusion Commitment Diversity fellows must commit to two academic terms. Workspace provided in Cambridge but must be willing to attend events and meetings on both the Cambridge and Longwood campuses (once COVID-related restrictions are lifted). Must also attend bi-weekly meetings with the EDIB team. May also continue over summer term. Compensation for the Academic Year $6,000. Pro-rated stipend continued during summer, if applicable. Application Please submit a resume, a one-page cover letter, and the name and contact information of two references to Katie Saibara. International students are further advised to reach out to HIO to ensure that their visa status will allow for them to hold (additional) employment for ~10 hours per week. One position is available. Applicants must be able to work with individuals and groups that our office serves, including racial and ethnic minorities, LGBTQ+ communities, and other underrepresented groups and individuals. In your cover letter, in addition to discussing your interest and background, please share how you will contribute to advancing the mission of the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging. 2. Diversity and Inclusion Fellow Supporting the efforts of the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging (EDIB) Event planning Helping GSAS to identify needed areas of support Participating in recruitment and outreach Working with the leadership of GSAS student groups, including Du Bois Graduate Society, MBSH, LGBTQ@GSAS, HGWISE and potentially interfacing with other diversity and inclusion offices across the University Liaison with GSAS Student Center fellows and other diversity, equity, and inclusion fellows across the University Special projects Commitment Diversity fellows must commit to two semesters. Workspace TBD, depending on-campus access policies due to COVID-19. Also must attend bi-weekly meetings with the EDIB team. May also continue over summer term. Compensation for the Academic Year $6,000. Pro-rated stipend continued during summer, if applicable. Application Please submit a resume, a one-page cover letter, and the name and contact information of two references to Katie Saibara. International students are further advised to reach out to HIO to ensure that their visa status will allow for them to hold (additional) employment for ~10 hours per week. One at-large position is available. Applicants must be able to work with individuals and groups that our office serves, including racial and ethnic minorities, LGBTQ+ communities, and other underrepresented groups and individuals. In your cover letter, in addition to discussing your interest in the position and background, please share how you will contribute to advancing the mission of the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging. Share This Contact Info We are not currently accepting applications Alumni Profile Jim Yong Kim Throughout his career, Jim Yong Kim, MD ’91, PhD ’93, has had one mission: to improve the experiences of populations throughout the world. Beginning as a graduate student, when he and fellow student Paul Famer, MD ’88, PhD ’...Read more Top Follow Us @HarvardGSAS Harvard GSAS on Facebook Contact Us Graduate School of Arts & Sciences HARVARD UNIVERSITY Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Suite 350 Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 MAP IT TEL617-495-5315 FAX617-495-2928 EMAILgsas@fas.harvard.edu Privacy | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement © 2020 The President and Fellows of Harvard College