0 Skip to Content About GSG Executive Board Assembly Committees Constitution and By-Laws Initiatives and Advocacy Current GSG Initiatives The Graduate Mental Health Initiative Reports, Proposals, and Documents Resources GSG's Guide to Campus Resources GSG's Guide to Graduation and FPOs Events Upcoming GSG Events Events Board 2022 GSG Elections GSG Year in Review Election Info Candidates Infographic Special Elections 2022 Special Election Information 2022 Slack Open Menu Close Menu About GSG Executive Board Assembly Committees Constitution and By-Laws Initiatives and Advocacy Current GSG Initiatives The Graduate Mental Health Initiative Reports, Proposals, and Documents Resources GSG's Guide to Campus Resources GSG's Guide to Graduation and FPOs Events Upcoming GSG Events Events Board 2022 GSG Elections GSG Year in Review Election Info Candidates Infographic Special Elections 2022 Special Election Information 2022 Slack Open Menu Close Menu Folder: About GSG Back Executive Board Assembly Committees Constitution and By-Laws Folder: Initiatives and Advocacy Back Current GSG Initiatives The Graduate Mental Health Initiative Reports, Proposals, and Documents Folder: Resources Back GSG's Guide to Campus Resources GSG's Guide to Graduation and FPOs Folder: Events Back Upcoming GSG Events Events Board Folder: 2022 GSG Elections Back GSG Year in Review Election Info Candidates Infographic Special Elections 2022 Special Election Information 2022 Slack Welcome to Princeton University’s Graduate Student Government! Get Involved Next GSG Assembly meeting: Wed, May 11th, 6pm over Zoom. Open to all grad students. Who Are We? We are an Executive Board of 11 graduate students and an Assembly of 50+ graduate students, representing all academic departments and various student interest groups. Our executive board members are elected by the entire graduate student body, and we meet weekly to discuss various initiatives, priorities, and campus collaborations. Our Assembly representatives are elected by their academic departments or student interest groups, and meet monthly to discuss issues brought forward by their constituents. Our mission is to support and advocate for graduate students in their multiple roles: as researchers, as teachers, as students, and as members of the broader Princeton University community. We work directly with University administrators and deans to make sure grad students’ voices are heard: we are the graduate community’s mouthpiece to the University administration. We also work year-round to foster a positive, inclusive, and engaged grad student community. We advocate for graduate students’ needs by: fighting for grad students’ financial, healthcare, and housing protections; collaborating with University offices on professional development opportunities; sponsoring mental health and wellness events all year round; investigating and addressing teaching load and other graduate labor inequities; promoting transparency in all University policies and procedures; and advocating on behalf of any grad student who seeks our support. We foster community by: running a University-wide Slack community of 2,000+ Princeton grad students; sending a weekly newsletter highlighting news and events of interest to grad students; hosting weekly graduate student Happy Hours; co-organizing the Grad Student Buddy Program for new grad students; and planning special events and themed parties all year round! Executive Board 2021-2022 Click here to read more about us and our roles. Andrew Finn President afinn@princeton.edu Allison Tang Vice President of Internal Affairs allisontang@princeton.edu Rachel Barocio Communications Director rbarocio@princeton.edu Rachel Richman Academic Affairs Chair rrichman@princeton.edu Mira Nencheva Health and Life Chair nencheva@princeton.edu Graeme Baker Social Chair graemeb@princeton.edu Irving Miramontes Special Events Chair irvingm@princeton.edu Promise Ekpo Osaine Facilities and Transportation Chair pe3955@princeton.edu Michael Schwoerer Treasurer mps3@princeton.edu Gyoonho Kong Secretary gkong@princeton.edu “I tell my students, when you get these jobs that you have been so brilliantly trained for, just remember that your real job is that if you are free, you need to free somebody else. If you have some power, then your job is to empower somebody else.” — Toni Morrison Contact us to let us know which issues matter to you. Email: gsg@princeton.edu Twitter: @PrincetonGSG Instagram: @PrincetonGSG Facebook: GSGPrinceton Slack: Sign up with your @princeton.edu address here Name * First Name Last Name Email * Message * Thank you! © 2021 Princeton University Photos by Karina Alventosa and Qihong Lu gsg@princeton.edu GSG Global Slack