Home COVID-19 Dashboard Branches Executive Internal External Satellite Representatives Committees Senators Initiatives GTGS Organizations Funding University Resources FUNDING FINANCE COMMITTEE Annacaroline Bachstein | Eric Letterer | Patrick Hayes | Peyton McGuire | Rasheed Wilkins | Business Administration (Director of Student Organizational Funding) Rose Somers | Stephen Vicchio | Chemical Engineering (GSG Treasurer) Vishal Manjunatha | ANNOUNCEMENTS: GSG Finance hearings will be held virtually on the first Tuesday of every month (February 1st, March 1st, and April 5th) @ 8 PM. The Zoom link is provided once you submit a request. FUNDING AND ALLOCATION REQUEST GUIDE: See the following guides for information and instructions about the new process: GSG Finance Committee guide: Link to the guide Center for Student Leadership and Engagement guide: Link to the guide GUIDELINES FOR FUNDING: To apply for funding, complete the funding request in this portal. The form must be completed by a graduate student, not a faculty advisor. Once you have completed the request you will be taken to a confirmation page. Note that your budget request should specifically declare/discuss: All anticipated costs as line-itemized items Total anticipated event cost Current organization's available funds Organization's contribution to the event External contributions to the event (e.g., departments, co-sponsoring organizations) Specific fundraising at/for the event Intended event audience and plan for advertising open-to-the-public events Number of Clemson graduate student* organization members (verified TigerQuest) A record counting the number of Clemson graduate student* attendees Order of preference for line-itemized cost *This excludes undergraduate students and non-graduate student family and friends. Additionally, note that the Finance Committee: Typically DOES fund food/beverages and venue spaces either partially or entirely. DOES consider funding events that encourage organizations' financial independence. DOES consider funding registration fees for professional development activities. By precedent, DOES NOT fund speaker-related costs, as it is difficult to equate these directly to graduate students. DOES NOT consider funding for community aid events, as these types of events have a separate application process. By precedent, DOES NOT fund "paper" products, including advertising costs (paper or electronic) or table products (plasticware, tablecloths, etcetera). By precedent, DOES NOT fund "transportation" costs, including gasoline and car rental. By precedent, DOES NOT fund "hotel" costs, as these are not directly identifiable as graduate student events. By precedent, DOES NOT fund the following beverage items: plastic water bottles, canned soda, two-liter soda containers, etc. (beverages that can be stored). By precedent,DOES NOT fund any merchandise (for example, t-shirts). Graduate Student Center 602 University Union Clemson, SC 29634 Email: gsg@clemson.edu Phone: 864-656-2697