Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Diana R. Garland School of Social Work About Us At a Glance Our History Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Faculty/Staff Contact Us Admissions BSW How to Apply Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements MSW Financial Aid Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained Financing your degree AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ MSW Online MSW PhD Field Education Inquiry Form Admissions Events Contact Us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Resources Celebrating Culture and Diversity Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative GML Scholarship Program Apply to the Program GML Alumni Updates GML Digital Brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni Career Services Continuing Education Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW MSW PhD Resources, Events, and Traditions Career Services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift About Us At a Glance Our History Meet Founding Dean Dr. Diana R. Garland Equity & Inclusion Racial Justice GSSW Antiracism Statement Message from the Dean Program Evaluation The Waco Area Office of the Dean Leadership Board of Advocates Faculty Directory Staff Directory Adjunct Directory Faculty/Staff Contact Us Admissions BSW How to Apply Baylor BSW 5th Year Program - BSW to MSW BSW Degree Requirements BSW Course Descriptions BSW Special Course Offerings/Electives Financial Aid BSW Field Education Minors Civic Interfaith Studies Minor Gerontology Minor Poverty Studies and Social Justice Minor FAQ - BSW MSW Why the Garland School? How to Apply Advanced Standing Requirements Standard Requirements Transfer Student Requirements MSW Financial Aid Residential MSW Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Explained Financing your degree AmeriCorps Partnership City Year Partnership MSW Curriculum MSW Specializations MSW Joint Degrees MSW Field Education MSW Inquiry Form FAQ MSW Online MSW PhD Field Education Inquiry Form Admissions Events Contact Us Research & Impact Research activities Active research grants Ongoing research and projects Center for Church & Community Impact (C3i) Social Work Initiatives Congregational Social Work Initiative Diversity Initiative Resources Celebrating Culture and Diversity Gerontology Initiative Global Mission Leadership Initiative GML Scholarship Program Apply to the Program GML Alumni Updates GML Digital Brochure Trauma Initiative The Writings of Alan Keith-Lucas Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium Connect Give Alumni Career Services Continuing Education Post a Job Opportunity Social Work Job Listings Community Connection Magazine Current Students BSW MSW PhD Resources, Events, and Traditions Career Services Field Education Apply Request Info Make a Gift ourWebinar Series Ready to take the next step toward pursuing your Master of Social Work? There's no better place to start than an informational webinar with our admissions team! Live Webinars Recorded Webinars Live Webinars We can't wait for the day you can visit us on campus again! Until then, we're hosting a live webinar series featuring our admissions team, MSW faculty, and current MSW students — and you're invited! We hope that our admissions and financial aid advice, field internship and research tips, and current student stories help you with your application and give you a feel for what it's like to be an MSW student at Baylor University. Click an icon below to register for one (or more) of our upcoming webinars! Application FAQ Apply to the residential Master of Social Work program in Waco, Texas with confidence. We'll walk you through the application process and answer your most pressing admissions questions. Funding Your Future: Financial Aid 101 Learn about the financial aid and funding opportunities available at the Garland School of Social Work. Discover how you can be considered for the best possible aid offers! Student to Student: The MSW Experience Engage in a candid conversation about why current MSW students chose Baylor University for their graduate education over the competition (and ask any questions you may have)! Tuesday, April 26th: 12:00-12:30 pm CST Tuesday, April 19th: 12:00-1:00 pm CST No Upcoming Webinars At This Time ExploretheMSW Guide Not all social work degree programs are created equal. To gain a deeper understanding of the unique benefits of the MSW program at Baylor University in Waco, TX explore our digital resource, Master of Social Work — The MBA of the Helping Professions. Access the Guide Recorded Webinars Baylor MSW students are supported by a variety of dedicated faculty and staff — each with a specific area of focus, helping to round out the graduate school experience. Watch our on-demand, recorded webinars to learn more about these teams and the services they provide. Scroll Through All Recorded Webinars Curriculum Overview Join our Master of Social Work Program Manager to familiarize yourself with the curriculum, degree plans, and class schedules offered in Waco, Texas. Research Series Lead by our Assistant Dean for Research, explore areas of MSW faculty research and how their projects are influencing current social work practices. Field Education Hear from our dedicated field education team to explore available internship opportunities and learn more about our unique internship process. Clinical Practice Learn how our students are prepared for direct practice in health care administration and planning roles with a focus on ethics and religious faith and health. Request More Information If you're interested in learning more about the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work and the programs we have to offer, we invite you to reach out to our team! Baylor MSW Resources I would like to explore resources focused on... All Career Outlook and Tips Financial Aid and Application Advice Switching My Career Path How to Land Your Dream Job After Earning Your MSW Baylor MSW Financial Aid Infographic Making a Career Switch? 6 Professions That Transition Smoothly to a Career in Social Work Explore Baylor's Application Process: Everything You Need to Know The Guide to Launching Your Career in Social Work How and Why You Should Switch to a Career in Social Work Master of Social Work — The MBA of the Helping Professions Choosing a Social Work Career: Assumptions vs. Reality 5 Lucrative Jobs You Can Begin After Getting an MSW The Value of Attending an Information Session: Everything You Need to Know Before Starting Your Graduate Education An MSW is the Entrepreneurial Business Degree of the Future — Here’s Why How to Change Your Career and Show Yourself Grace in the Process: MSW Student Toni Portacci’s Story How to Land Your Dream Job After Earning Your MSW Baylor MSW Financial Aid Infographic Making a Career Switch? 6 Professions That Transition Smoothly to a Career in Social Work How to Land Your Dream Job After Earning Your MSW How to Land Your Dream Job After Earning Your MSW Baylor MSW Financial Aid Infographic Making a Career Switch? 6 Professions That Transition Smoothly to a Career in Social Work Explore Baylor's Application Process: Everything You Need to Know The Guide to Launching Your Career in Social Work How and Why You Should Switch to a Career in Social Work Master of Social Work — The MBA of the Helping Professions Choosing a Social Work Career: Assumptions vs. Reality 5 Lucrative Jobs You Can Begin After Getting an MSW The Value of Attending an Information Session: Everything You Need to Know Before Starting Your Graduate Education An MSW is the Entrepreneurial Business Degree of the Future — Here’s Why How to Change Your Career and Show Yourself Grace in the Process: MSW Student Toni Portacci’s Story How to Land Your Dream Job After Earning Your MSW Baylor MSW Financial Aid Infographic Making a Career Switch? 6 Professions That Transition Smoothly to a Career in Social Work BookaMeeting Our MSW Student Ambassadors are ready to connect with you! Schedule a call or virtual meeting to learn more about the Diana R. Garland School of Social Work and the programs we have to offer! Let's Chat! APPLY ONLINE GIVE NOW INITIATIVES DIRECTORY General Information #BaylorLights About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Administration Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Gateways For... Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students DIANA R. GARLAND SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK Facebook Twitter Tumblr Pinterest LinkedIn Diana R. Garland School of Social Work 811 Washington Ave Waco, TX 76701 254.710.6400 Email Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678