Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Center for Music Technology College of Design Main navigation About Moog Hackathon Guthman Musical Instrument Competition Women in Music Technology Academics Seminars Research Brain Music Computational Music for All Computational and Cognitive Musicology Music Informatics Robotic Musicianship Shimi Shimon Skywalker Robotic Drumming Prosthesis Robotic Drumming Third Arm Portfolio In the Media Publications Archived Projects Who We Are Partnerships Contact Us Open Search Search Breadcrumb Home Robotic Musicianship Robotic Musicianship The Robotic Musicianship group aims to facilitate meaningful musical interactions between humans and machines, leading to novel musical experiences and outcomes. In our research, we combine computational modeling approaches for perception, interaction, and improvisation, with novel approaches for generating acoustic responses in physical and visual manners. The motivation for this work is based on the hypothesis that real-time collaboration between human and robotic players can capitalize on the combination of their unique strengths to produce new and compelling music. Our goal is to combine human qualities, such as musical expression and emotions, with robotic traits, such as powerful processing, the ability to perform sophisticated mathematical transformations, robust long-term memory, and the capacity to play accurately without practice. Robotic Musicianship Projects FOREST FOREST is the performative outcome of an NSF-funded project that enhances trust between humans and robots through sound. Skywalker This project aims to let amputees play musical instruments using a prosthetic hand. Shimon Shimon is an improvising robotic marimba player designed to create musical interactions with humans. Robotic Drumming Prosthesis The prosthesis attaches to amputees, allowing this technology to be embedded into humans, using two drumsticks. Robotic Drumming Third Arm This project explores how a shared control paradigm can influence and potentially enhance performance. Shimi This smartphone-enabled robotic musical companion can respond to and enhance your musical experiences. Questions? If you can't find the information you were looking for, we'll get you to the right place. Contact Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN User account menu Log in