Skip to content Global Training Initiative Office of Global Engagement Toggle navigation Connect With Us Meet the Team Contact and Visit Us Join Our Host Network Mentorship Program GTI News Campus Partnerships Student Programs Student Programs Overview Virtual and Online Certificate Programs Developing Cultural Competence Certificate GEARS US Culture & Higher Ed Certificate SKEMA US at NC State Professional Programs Professional Development Overview Global Skills Certification Training Global Leadership in VR Regions & Topics Regions Topics Campus Partnerships Global Innovation and Entrepreneurship Racing Drones Search Search for: Search Home Building Global Success in North Carolina and Abroad GTI offers both in-person and online programming as part of our efforts to protect the Pack. Thanks for your understanding, and visit NC State’s COVID-19 response site for the latest information and guidelines for participating in face-to-face activities or visiting our offices. The Global Training Initiative at NC State University develops customized short-term education and training programs for students and professionals from across the globe by harnessing the resources available at the university. More than 10,000 participants have completed GTI programs in the last two decades. We are part of NC State’s Office of Global Engagement. GTI Student Employment We’re hiring for various student roles for the Fall 2022 semester. Check our our Student Employment page for more information and how to apply Global Education and Training Programs Our programs span all topics and time zones. We have developed and delivered training programs for academic, government, and corporate clients from around the globe. Some of our previous clients include the U.S State Department, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and the World Health Organization. Students Overseas students can take classes at NC State University in the fall semester and earn a certificate in US Culture and Higher Education while completing their course of study. Our unit also coordinates special programs for key overseas partners such as student success programs, academic preparatory programs, as well as semester-long courses and short-term enrichment programs. NC State students can get involved and broaden their worldview by obtaining the Developing Cultural Competence Student Certificate, joining the Cultural Exchange Network (CENet), or participating in our global leadership summer institute. student programs OVERVIEW Professionals The GTI delivers customized training programs for North Carolina organizations and groups of overseas professionals. Our programs apply the expertise of our faculty and industry leaders to an international context with a solution-driven focus. We offer global skills training for professionals who want to improve their intercultural effectiveness and capabilities, utilizing a wide range of technology and tools, including virtual reality. professional DEVELOPMENT OVERVIEW Contact Us Experienced Intercultural Educators The GTI staff is proud to be part of the institution that won the 2014 Senator Paul Simon Award for Campus Internationalization – Comprehensive Award. The GTI and its programs have also individually been recognized with the North Carolina Association of International Educator’s Institutional Award, the Deborah S. Moore Outstanding Service Program, and other awards. Our team brings together decades of intercultural experience. Please feel free to contact us if you have questions about a specific program or initiative. MEET THE TEAM Campus News May 12, 2022 Study Finds Realism a Key Factor in Driving Engagement with Virtual Reality Videos By Staff And engagement is a key factor in determining whether viewers will watch more VR videos in the future. May 6, 2022 GTI Congratulates Our 2022 Graduates By Ilin Misaras The Global Training Initiative team includes several graduates who have persevered through some challenging years to complete their degrees of study. These student workers have … May 3, 2022 NC State Rises In Global Impact Ranking By clehman NC State University is among the top 200 universities in the world for global sustainable impact, according to the Times Higher Education’s 2022 Impact Rankings that measure university contributions to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). NC State first participated in the Impact Rankings last year, finishing in the top 300 globally. This year’s rise to the… More News ncstategti Pardon our mess 🚧 Renovation of the GTI and @nc Got plans for Memorial Day weekend? Check out the What a better way to end the school year than a tr Hanging around campus for a little longer and want The GTI team includes several graduating student w One of our favorite on campus partners to work wit 🌙 Eid Mubarak to our family and friends who are Learn Korean with Callie🇰🇷🌸 This time, Ca Load More Follow on Instagram Navigate Home Student Programs Professional Programs Regions Recent Articles Study Finds Realism a Key Factor in Driving Engagement with Virtual Reality Videos GTI Congratulates Our 2022 Graduates NC State Rises In Global Impact Ranking Visit Us Global Training Initiative 2526 Hillsborough St, Suite 200 Campus Box 7573 Raleigh, NC 27695 (map) 919.513.0105 gti@ncsu.edu facebook youtube twitter instagram linkedin Global Training Initiative Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011