Skip to main content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) menu Search secondary-header-main-menu About Careers Diversity Subscribe Contact Georgia Tech Search Main navigation Core Competencies Laboratories Locations News GTRI 2021 Annual Report An overview of our accomplishments, research investments, and outreach programs in 2021. READ THE REPORT THE NEXT TEN YEARS GTRI's Strategic Plan embraces, builds on, and enhances our success and culture by articulating goals and identifying intentional actions toward achieving our 2030 vision. READ THE PLAN Experienced Research Innovation GTRI's renowned researchers combine science, engineering, economics, policy and technical expertise to solve complex problems for our customers. See how we put effective, practical solutions into action. Learn More About GTRI Research Unrivaled Institutional Talent Join our team of experts and help us bring the right mix of talent, experience and creativity to every project. Be part of the team turning ideas into workable solutions for our customers. View Career Opportunities Acclaimed Technical Excellence GTRI researchers are recognized around the world for their remarkable achievements. Explore our news stories and discover how we deliver results for our partners in government and industry. View Newsroom Bring us your biggest problem in these core competencies: Analysis, Modeling and Simulation, Systems Engineering and Technology Development Analysis, Modeling and Simulation, Systems Engineering and Technology Development Cybersecurity, Information, Communication, Command and Control and Software Systems Cybersecurity, Information, Communication, Command and Control and Software Systems Electromagnetics, Materials and Device Technology Electromagnetics, Materials and Device Technology Sensors, Weapons, Electronic Warfare and Autonomous Systems Sensors, Weapons, Electronic Warfare and Autonomous Systems Test & Evaluation Test & Evaluation Threat Systems Research & Development Threat Systems Research & Development News All News > Courtney Crooks on Promoting Mental and Physical Wellness in a Post-Covid World Though mental health has long been considered a sensitive topic, the Covid-19 pandemic has encouraged more transparency about the importance of prioritizing mental and physical well-being at home and at work. 05.31.2022 AAPI Heritage Month Promotes Individuality and Community GT and GTRI celebrated Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month during May. Members of the GTRI Community share their personal stories. 05.25.2022 Your Next Personal Assistant Could be a Drone Imagine you’re a college student cramming for a test in your dorm room. What if there was a way for the school supplies and food to be delivered right to your dorm – not by car or foot, but by drone? 05.13.2022 Main navigation Core Competencies Laboratories Locations News secondary-footer-main-menu Directory About Careers Diversity Contact Facebook Twitter Linkedin Youtube third-menu-footer GTRI WebWISE Legal & Privacy Information EU GDPR Privacy Notice Terms of Use Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Clery Act © Copyright Georgia Institute of Technology