Skip to main content menu Search secondary-header-main-menu About Careers Diversity Subscribe Contact Georgia Tech Search Main navigation Core Competencies Laboratories Locations News News Latest News See all Latest News > 05.25.2022 AAPI Heritage Month Promotes Individuality and Community Read More 05.04.2022 GTRI’s Cobb County Impact Showcased to Military Support Organization Read More 04.25.2022 Quantum, Classical Computing Combine to Tackle Tough Optimization Problems Read More 04.13.2022 Artificial Intelligence Helps Classify COVID-19 Severity in Pregnant People Read More 04.12.2022 GTRI Names William H. Robinson Deputy Director for Research for the Information and Cyber Sciences Directorate Read More 03.03.2022 Celebrating Inclusive Excellence: Sarah Cockrell Educates and Inspires Others to Overcome Intersectionality Read More Featured Stories See all Featured Stories > 05.31.2022 Courtney Crooks on Promoting Mental and Physical Wellness in a Post-Covid World Though mental health has long been considered a sensitive topic, the Covid-19 pandemic has encouraged more transparency about the importance of prioritizing mental and physical well-being at home and at work. Read More 05.13.2022 Your Next Personal Assistant Could be a Drone Imagine you’re a college student cramming for a test in your dorm room. What if there was a way for the school supplies and food to be delivered right to your dorm – not by car or foot, but by drone? Read More 05.03.2022 Meet William H. Robinson William H. Robinson is eager to use his passion for academic research, cybersecurity, and diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) to drive meaningful change at the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI), the Georgia Institute of Technology, and beyond. Read More In The News See all headlines In The News > 05.03.2022 Technology Org Quantum, Classical Computing Combine to Tackle Tough Optimization Problems A research team led by the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) was recently selected for second-phase funding of a $9.2 million project aimed at demonstrating a hybrid computing system that will combine the advantages of classical computing with those of quantum computing to tackle some of the world’s most difficult optimization problems. 05.02.2022 WSB-TV Are robots taking our jobs? Some say they are making life easier While many people are concerned about robots taking over jobs, in some cases, technology is making conditions safer and easier for workers. Visit all of GTRI's news GTRI 2021 Annual Report An overview of our accomplishments, research investments, and outreach programs in 2021. Read the Report Latest News Discover how GTRI solves complex problems for our customers and makes an impact in the community. Learn More Featured Stories Take an ever deeper look into GTRI's research activities with our Featured Stories. Learn More In The News View the latest headlines covering GTRI and Georgia Tech research. Learn More Media Inquiries Please use this form to contact us regarding any media inquires. Inquiries Form Annual Reports These reports contain examples of GTRI's achievements across our core research disciplines. Learn More Main navigation Core Competencies Laboratories Locations News secondary-footer-main-menu Directory About Careers Diversity Contact Facebook Twitter Linkedin Youtube third-menu-footer GTRI WebWISE Legal & Privacy Information EU GDPR Privacy Notice Terms of Use Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Clery Act © Copyright Georgia Institute of Technology