Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Non-Dartmouth Students Parents & Families The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Contact Us Facebook Twitter Guarini.Institute@dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Find a Program Studying Away Health and Safety Health Insurance Health Planning & Risks Safety Abroad Immigration and Visas Financing Your Program Financial Aid Funding Opportunities Tuition and Fees FAQs Dates and Deadlines Back to Top Nav Diversity Statement IncludeUp On Campus Resources Additional Resources Reporting Form Suggestions Student Stories Back to Top Nav How to Apply About Staff Student Alumni Mentors Frank J. Guarini Vision, Mission & Approach News Events Program Updates Back to Top Nav Login Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Select programs are still accepting applications for AY22-23. Click the deadline exceptions list to the right for more information. TO VIEW THE LIST OF SCHEDULED OFFERINGS THROUGH AY 2025 CLICK HERE Application Deadline Feb 1, 2022 4 Months 0 Weeks 0 Days Decision Date Mar 1, 2022 Program Deadline Exceptions Artboard 1 Deadline Exceptions French FSP Paris May 1, 2022 Spanish FSP Buenos Aires May 1, 2022 German Studies FSP Berlin May 1, 2022 German Studies LSA+ Berlin May 1, 2022 Spanish LSA+ Buenos Aires May 15, 2022 Find a Program Map Region Term Offered Program Type Search All Posts: go Africa 4 Programs Caribbean 1 Programs Asia 9 Programs Australia/Pacific Islands 4 Programs Central America 1 Programs Europe 36 Programs Middle East 2 Programs North America 19 Programs South America 3 Programs Summer 12 Programs Fall 48 Programs Winter 34 Programs Spring 21 Programs Year 5 Programs Domestic Study Program 4 Programs The principle objective of Domestic Study Programs (DSP) is an in-depth experience of the life and culture of the domestic locale through substantive courses and meaningful engagement with the local people and resources. These programs offer undergraduate students opportunities to study other cultures and disciplines in depth as well as to gain new perspectives on our society. Domestic Study Programs are conducted primarily in the English language. These programs are designed to take advantage of resources unique to the off campus location in the United States. Exchange Program 31 Programs Dartmouth has exchange programs with other educational institutions, both in the United States and in other countries. These are considered Dartmouth-sponsored programs. Students apply for exchange programs through the Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education. Undergraduate students participating on exchange programs are directly enrolled at the partner institution, enabling them to have a university experience very similar to that of a student of the host institution. If accepted into a program, students then apply to transfer specific courses to Dartmouth through the Dartmouth Registrar’s Office. Foreign Study Program 26 Programs The principle objective of Foreign Study Programs (FSP) is an in-depth experience of the life and culture of the host country through substantive courses and meaningful engagement with the local people and resources. Like their language-based counterparts, these programs offer undergraduate students opportunities to study other cultures and disciplines in depth as well as to gain new perspectives on our society. FSP’s in the language departments offer advanced study of the country's language, literature and civilization and are designed for students that have advanced language skills as compared to an LSA program. A wide array of FSP’s are conducted primarily in the English language. These programs are designed to take advantage of resources unique to the host country. GSA 2 Programs Language Study Abroad 6 Programs Dartmouth's Language Study Abroad (LSA) and Advanced Language Study Abroad (LSA+) programs have been developed in response to the College's commitment of understanding, and communicating with, people of other cultures. To this end, Dartmouth maintains programs in a number of countries. Undergraduate students live with local families on most LSA and LSA+ programs. Life with local families gives students a personal context through which they gain access to the culture as a whole. Studying the language, literature and civilization gives them an intellectual grasp of historical and contemporary cultural patterns. Language Study Abroad (LSA+) 10 Programs The LSA+ is a program designed for students who have satisfied the language requirement and are prepared for a more advanced language study abroad experience. Undergraduate students live with local families on most LSA and LSA+ programs. Life with local families gives students a personal context through which they gain access to the culture as a whole. Studying the language, literature and civilization gives them an intellectual grasp of historical and contemporary cultural patterns. Study Away Experience View Image and Caption View Image and Caption View Image and Caption View Image and Caption View Image and Caption View Image and Caption View Image and Caption View Image and Caption Close Making friends with the local fauna at Awana Kancha in Pisac, Peru. Pro tip: the llamas will spit at you if you try to address them in English. -Isabel Burgess '20 We sat together on the beach, fully absorbing one of the most beautiful sunsets any of us had ever seen. It feels nice simply having the time to explore and appreciate our surroundings. -Angelina Choi '20 From burning the onions to the many attempts of starting the dish over, we were finally able to "top-off-the-tortilla" the right way. Us learning how to cook reflects our learning experience here in Spain. - Ariela Kovary '20 “Vito in Vernazza” Vernazza, Italy. Vernazza is said to be one of the most beautiful sites in Italy with the vibrant building colors and the beautiful shoreline and beach. -Vittorio Penza '19 We saw the sunset from a mountain in the Faroe Islands, where we also met a professional adventure photographer who was on assignment for Sidetracked Magazine. -Xiaoran Zhu '19 It's unbelievable to think that one can just casually have a picnic by thousand-year-old ruins. -Geoffrey Huang '19 The entire ENVS FSP crew poses with one of two white rhinos, which they helped micro-chip and collect DNA samples from for anti-poaching/conservation purposes. -Alexander Cotnoir '19 Rope team descend from a crevassed region of the glacier near the icefall on our first day on Athabasca Glacier in Jasper National Park, Canada. -Laura Hutchinson '19 Preparing to Study Away Financing Your Program We aim to make off campus programs accessible to all Dartmouth students. In addition, we have resources on prestigious awards to further fund your experience. FAQs Frequently asked questions pertaining to programs and their application. Immigration and Visas Find resources to help you determine which kinds of documents may be required for your term off campus. Health and Safety The Guarini Institute prepares students going abroad with pre-departure orientations, travel guidelines, and the best health, safety and security practices. Frank J. Guarini “Education is the most important word in our language, in any language,” said Congressman Guarini. “It’s how we create leaders, grow our economy, and learn about other people, which nurtures peace. Education is the key to a better world.” About Frank Guarini Spanish LSA Barcelona "Though visits to famous national monuments and landmarks rightfully garner much excitement, I will treasure most the surreal experience of exploring the city's "backyard" with my companions." -Benjamin Lee '19 Learn More ASCL FSP Beijing Passing through a rural town in Western China, I was able to speak with this woman about her craft, photographing her in her peaceful happiness. The locals I met, like this woman, truly made my experience memorable. -Colleen O'Connor '19 Learn More Main menu Dartmouth College The Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education Find a Program Studying Away Health and Safety Health Insurance Health Planning & Risks Safety Abroad Immigration and Visas Financing Your Program Financial Aid Funding Opportunities Tuition and Fees FAQs Dates and Deadlines Diversity Statement IncludeUp On Campus Resources Additional Resources Reporting Form Suggestions Student Stories How to Apply About Staff Student Alumni Mentors Frank J. Guarini Vision, Mission & Approach News Events Program Updates Login Non-Dartmouth Students Parents & Families Ribbon Footer Keyword & Filters Homepage Widget Close Login How To Apply Close People Program Assistant Maria Bradley Guarini.Institute@dartmouth.edu (603) 646-1202 Find Us Address Dartmouth College 44 North College Street, Suite 6102 Hanover, NH 03755Come Find Us! Phone: (603) 646-1202 Fax: (603) 646-3838 Email: Guarini.Institute@dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Close Find A Program Applications Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback