Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Main navigation Search Breadcrumb Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Top navigation: Contact, Library account : PennKey Library Account Logout Login Log in to Franklin with PennKey Do you need help because you have No PennKey? Click here. Library Home Libraries & hours Make an appointment Check it to expand the navigation menu, uncheck to hide the menu." show menu items Library Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan implementation Locations & hours Social Media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries Staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Program & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the news Give now Guides Type your search Penn Libraries Guides Alumni Services Alumni Services Welcome Search this Group Search Alumni Services: Welcome Welcome Visit the Libraries Access E-Resources Borrow Print Materials Graduation doesn’t mean the end of your journey with Penn Libraries! As a Penn alumnus, you can still experience a variety of events and exhibits, access select print and e-resources, and discover creative ways to make an impact on the Penn community. Giving to the Penn Libraries The Penn Libraries is a critical, central entity that plays an essential role advancing the overall mission of Penn as a premier research, teaching, and learning institution. A depth of resources and tools and the remarkable quality of the collections distinguish Penn Libraries among its peers across the nation and around the world. An investment in the Libraries is an investment in the future of the University, including all the lives it touches and all the knowledge it shapes. Gifts will directly support the implementation of the Penn Libraries’ new strategic plan, advancing critical goals and strategies under each of its four pillars: Advance, Engage, Preserve, and Enrich. Consider supporting our mission and impacting the lives of the entire Penn community by making a gift. Become a Libraries volunteer leader Do you want to enrich your engagement with Penn Libraries and connect with others who are passionate about supporting our mission? Meet the Libraries’ philanthropic leaders and check out the different ways you can get involved. Stay in touch Be the first to know about Penn Libraries news and events! Follow us on social media and join our mailing list. Visit us in person or online Penn Libraries is home to unique collections, rare materials, and unparalleled expertise. Visit our exhibits and attend a variety of events created for the alumni community. Next: Visit the Libraries >> Last Updated: Apr 19, 2022 9:22 AM URL: https://guides.library.upenn.edu/alumniservices Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Tags: services Footer: Sitemap for navigation Social media Brief footer Penn Libraries Hours Library locations Spaces Workshops Give Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Questions or comments Report accessibility issues and get help 3420 Walnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206 215-898-7555 Campus Libraries map University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania