Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Faculty of Arts & Sciences Libraries Music Research Guide Recordings and Videos Music Research Guide Information on getting started with research resources at the Loeb Music Library. Table of Contents Home What's New? HOLLIS (Library catalog and more) Dictionaries, Encyclopedias, Bibliographies How to Find... Articles Recordings and Videos Scores and Sheet Music Concert Reviews Collected Works Editions Dissertations and Theses Music in Special Collections Ethnomusicology Research @ Harvard Jazz Research @ Harvard Citing Sources Senior Thesis Style Guide: Footnotes Senior Thesis Style Guide: Bibliography Get Help Elizabeth Berndt-Morris Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: Loeb Music Library, Music Building 617-998-5310 Social: Facebook Page Twitter Page Instagram Page Online Audio and Video Harvard subscribes to a number of streaming audio and video collections, each holding thousands of recordings. Visit the Early Sound Recording Research Guide for early commercial sound recordings resources. Music and Performing Arts Online A family of audio and video collections, including: Classical Music Library; Classical Performance in Video, Jazz Music Library; Opera in Video; Dance in Video; American Music; Smithsonian Global Sound; Contemporary World Music; Popular Music Library; Theatre in Video Naxos Music Library Classical, world, jazz, and folk recordings, with biographical information, opera synopses and libretti, glossaries and pronunciation guides. Naxos Music Library: Jazz Jazz, blues, R&B, rock, and spoken word from Blue Note, Fantasy, Warner, Naxos Jazz and 150+ record labels. Naxos Music Library World World music from the catalogues of Smithsonian Folkways, ARC Music, Nonesuch, and other labels. DRAM A collection focused on independent label American recordings (including New World Records and CRI), with liner notes,essays, bibliographies, and discographies Ethnographic Sound Archives Online Historic field recordings along with their supporting field notes, photographs, and related interviews. Ethnographic Video Online Films covering every region of the world by documentary filmmakers of the 20th century, including interviews, previously unreleased raw footage, field notes, and study guides. Ethnomusicology: Global Field Recordings Contains over 60 field collections from ethnomusicologists, produced in collaboration with the UCLA Ethnomusicology Archive. medici.tv A collection of classical music videos, including concerts, operas, ballets, documentaries, and artist profiles. Some performances are available as live webcasts and for a limited time through delayed streaming. Met Opera on Demand Hundreds of productions from the Metropolitan Opera: Live in HD, telecasts from the 1970s-2000s, and radio broadcasts dating back to 1936. Berliner Philharmoniker Digital Concert Hall Streaming interviews, documentaries, archived and live concerts. Qwest TV Streaming video service created by Quincy Jones. It features documentaries, concerts, archives and other content as they relate to “jazz and beyond.” Additional Online Audio and Video A comprehensive list of streaming resources at Harvard are listed on the Streaming Video Research Guide. Online Resources for Music Scholars Links to other audio and video collections Janus Films/Criterion Collection Includes 396 full-length feature films from the Criterion Collection (as of March 5, 2019). Digital Theatre Plus Includes full performances, rehearsal rooms, dressing room, backstage, documentaries and interviews from British theatre. Dance in Video Covers a wide array of dance styles, including but not limited to: ballet, tap, jazz, African, contemporary, experimental, and improvisational dance. BroadwayHD Live streaming from Broadway from award-winning writers, directors, and actors. Online Audio and Video Beyond Harvard British Library Sounds: World and Traditional Music Field and commercial recordings of musics world-wide, from the British Library's collections. Most can be played by anyone. EVIA Digital Archive: Ethnomusicological Video for Instruction and Analysis A digital archive of ethnographic field video for use by scholars and instructors. Requires free registration to view video. The National Jukebox (Library of Congress) Over 10,000 Victor Records recordings made from 1901-1925: jazz, popular music, novelty recordings, opera, political speeches, and sound effects Folkstreams: A National Preserve of Documentary Films about American Roots Cultures A streaming collection of documentary films about American folk or roots cultures. Some films are accompanied by transcriptions, essays, and other contextual material. << Previous: Articles Next: Scores and Sheet Music >> Last Updated: Feb 23, 2022 1:46 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/music Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Art & Music, Library Collections & Services, Music, Performing Arts Tags: ethnomusicology, music, music history, thesis Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy