Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Education - Gutman Library Gutman Library Book Talks About Gutman Library Book Talks Celebrating the scholarship of the HGSE community. Table of Contents About About Note about Gutman Library Events Past EventsToggle Dropdown Fall 2020 Spring 2021 Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Book Talk Schedule About Gutman Library Book Talks celebrate the scholarship of Harvard Graduate School of Education community members and provide a venue for critical discussion and engagement with current issues in the field of education research, practice and policy. Can I attend? Book Talks are free and open to the public. If you or another Book Talks attendee require reasonable accommodations, please contact Lydia Hogan at lydia_hogan@gse.harvard.edu or (617) 384-0127. Can you feature my book? If you would like your book considered for the Book Talks series, please review the general planning information below and then contact Myanne Krivoshey at Gutman Library at myanne_krivoshey@gse.harvard.edu or (617) 495-4225. FAQs for Interested Authors Scheduling Book Talks occur at HGSE Monday-Friday. We can schedule a lunch time event, if you want an HGSE/Harvard centered audience, or an evening time event, if you prefer a broader community event. Whether lunchtime or evening time, our events are open to the public. Book talks typically run for 1-1.5 hours, depending on your preference. Format Book Talks typically take the form of an author giving a presentation about the book, the research process, the findings, etc., followed by a Q&A. However, the form of the event is really up to you. If you would prefer a panel presentation, whether one or more other colleagues, an interactive learning activity, a formal reading, etc. we are happy to accommodate. We will coordinate with a local bookstore to sell copies of the book before/after the event; it would be up to you if you would like to do a formal book signing. Catering For both lunchtime and evening events, Gutman Library will cover costs related to catering. During lunchtime events, we typically have a sandwich spread/buffet; for evening, we do light refreshments, including cheese, crackers, fruit, coffee and tea. Travel We are not able to cover or reimburse travel or any related expenses for authors. Note about Gutman Library Events Effective March 13, 2020: Gutman Library will not be hosting any on-campus events, such as Book Talks or Gutman Gallery exhibitions, due to meeting and event guidance from the Harvard Graduate School of Education and Harvard University in light of COVID-19. However, we will be hosting virtual book talks throughout the academic year. Check back for more information on upcoming virtual events! Submit any questions about Gutman Library services and events through our Ask Us form. Next: Past Events >> Last Updated: Apr 21, 2022 9:45 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/gse/booktalks Print Page Login to LibApps Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy