Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Zotero: Getting Started Get Zotero Zotero: Getting Started Table of Contents Get Zotero Why Use Zotero? Install & Set Preferences Zotero Installation & Setup Videos Zotero Setup Screenshots Start Using ZoteroToggle Dropdown Working with PDFs Store & Back up Your Files Help & Classes Why Use Zotero? Be Organized Keep all of your research and citations in one place Save Time Format fewer citations by hand Collaborate Work with anyone in the world, anytime It's Free No cost even after you leave Harvard Install & Set Preferences Follow these 10 Steps (See also the videos and screenshots below) Using Chrome or Firefox, go to Zotero.org/download. (It is recommended to use Zotero with Chrome and Firefox though connectors are also available for Safari and Edge.) Download Zotero. Install the Zotero Connector for your browser of choice Create a Zotero.org account using your Harvard email address. (If you do not receive a prompt, go to Zotero.org/user/register. Registering with a Harvard email address provides free unlimited cloud storage.) Open the Zotero application on your computer. On a PC: In the Edit menu, select Preferences. On a Mac: In the Zotero menu, select Preferences In the General tab, uncheck Automatically tag items with keywords and subject heading. In the Sync tab, add your username & password In the Cite tab, open the Word Processors tab & check the box next to Use Classic Add Citation dialog. In the Advanced tab, in the Open URL Resolver box, input this URL: https://hollis.harvard.edu/openurl/01HVD/HVD_URL? Also in the Advanced tab, change the Zotero language to English if your computer is set to another language. After completing the installation, we recommend opening Word to make sure your Zotero tools have been added. If you do not see the Zotero tab, you may have to close and re-open Word and Zotero before it appears. In Google Docs, click on the Zotero to follow directions to connect Zotero to your Google account. Zotero Installation & Setup Videos Zotero Setup Screenshots Steps 7-10 Visualized: Zotero Preferences & Word Tool Installation 7. In the General tab, uncheck Automatically tag items with keywords and subject headings. 8. In the Sync tab, add your username & password and click on Set Up Syncing. 9. In the Cite tab, open the Word Processors tab and check the box next to Use Classic Add Citation dialog. 10. In the Advanced tab, change the Zotero language to English if your computer is set to another language. Next: Start Using Zotero >> Last Updated: May 24, 2022 4:56 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/zotero Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Citation Management Tools Tags: citation tools, citations, zotero Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy