Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Toggle navigation MENU Hours Ask a Librarian HLS Harvard Libraries Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Law School Library Newspapers for the HLS Community Home Search this Group Search Newspapers for the HLS Community A guide to newspaper subscriptions available to faculty, staff, and students at Harvard Law School. Home Boston Globe Financial Times Mass. Lawyers Weekly New York Times Wall Street Journal Washington Post Newspaper Research at Harvard Getting Help Home Intro Harvard has access to hundreds of current and historical newspapers from around the world. This guide highlights some of the most popular current publications available to the Harvard and Harvard Law School communities and connects you with a guide to doing research with newspapers at Harvard. Some titles listed below are are available by individual subscription to members of the Harvard Law School community. Follow the links to register. If you’d like help setting up an account or with additional features, please ask a librarian. For additional ways of accessing these newspapers for research and for access to historical coverage, please search the HOLLIS catalog or see the Newspaper Research section of this guide. Boston Globe Boston Globe does not offer institutional online accounts, but a substantial discount on individual accounts is available to the Harvard community. Globe.com discount for Harvard Other ways to get The Boston Globe at Harvard: Boston Globe, May 2, 1982-current (Lexis Advance) Boston Globe, December 1979-current (Westlaw) Boston Globe, 1987-current (Factiva) Boston Globe, 1960-1986 (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) Boston Globe, 1903-1922 (NewspaperARCHIVE.com) Financial Times Financial Times (FT.com) All Harvard students, faculty, and staff may register for FT.com subscriptions courtesy of HBS. Features include unlimited FT.com, mobile, and tablet access; newsletters; 5 year company financials archive, custom MyFT dashboard, and ability to save and gift articles to non-subscribers. Other ways to get The Financial Times at Harvard: Financial Times, October 21, 2001-current; embargo on most recent 30 days (ProQuest) Financial Times, January 2, 1982-current; embargo on most recent 30 days (Lexis Advance) Mass. Lawyers Weekly Massachusetts Lawyers' Weekly Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly is available electronically from 2012 using your HLS Me credentials. New York Times New York Times Online Registration (NYTimes.com) Register for an individual NYTimes.com “group pass”. Subscriptions are available for Harvard University students, faculty, and staff. Note: As of June 1, 2021, the HLSL NYT account is transferring to Harvard Library. If you have an existing Law School NYT account you will need to re-register your account. Info & Registration instructions Other ways to get The New York Times at Harvard: New York Times, 1851-2013 (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) New York Times, June 1, 1980-current (Lexis Advance) New York Times, January 1, 1980-current; abstracts from 1969 (Factiva) Wall Street Journal Wall Street Journal (WSJ.com) Use the link in the HOLLIS record to register for an individual account. Accounts are available to current students, faculty, and staff at Harvard. . Other ways to get The Wall Street Journal at Harvard: Wall Street Journal, June 13, 1979-current (LexisAdvance) Wall Street Journal, -current (Factiva) Wall Street Journal, 1889-1999 (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) Washington Post Washington Post Individual Washington Post online accounts are available to current students, faculty, and staff at Harvard. Subscriptions include unlimited access to the Post via WashingtonPost.com or the Washington Post app. Features include newsletter subscriptions and the ability to save articles. Sign up at the link with your Harvard email address. Note: The Washington Post sends a verification email to your address after you register. Your subscription will not be activated until you verify. If you did not receive the email, please check your spam filters. Other ways to get The Washington Post at Harvard: Washington Post, January 1, 1977-current (Lexis Advance) Washington Post, January 1978-current (Westlaw) Washington Post, 1877-1999 (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) The Washington Post (HOLLIS Record) Newspaper Research at Harvard Newspaper & News Collections List of newspapers and collections available at Harvard selected and annotated by HLS Library staff. Guide to Newspapers and Newspaper Indexes (Harvard Library guide) Harvard has access to hundreds of additional newspapers through newspaper indexes and digital and microform formats. Visit this guide for a comprehensive overview of offerings, including: • U.S. general newspapers • U.S. ethnic newspapers • Historic newspaper coverage • Foreign newspapers • Local unpublished newspapers indexes • Underground/alternative press • Specialized newspapers/subjects • Newspaper illustrations, photographs, and cartoons • Periodical directories • Associated Press archives Getting Help Contact Us! Ask Us! Submit a question or search our knowledge base. Chat with us! Chat with a librarian. Email: research@law.harvard.edu Contact Historical & Special Collections at specialc@law.harvard.edu Meet with Us Schedule an online consult with a Librarian Hours Library Hours Classes View Training Calendar or Request an Insta-Class Text Ask a Librarian, 617-702-2728 Last Updated: Feb 1, 2022 11:50 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/law/newspapers Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: HLS Library Collections & Services Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy