Skip to Main Content For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Research Guides Home Individual Help Academic Writing Writing Programs & Groups Application Writing Grammar & Style Reading and Research in Composition Home Start Your Research Research Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides UW Libraries Writing Resources Home Writing Resources: Home Welcome to the research guide for resources related to writing and rhetoric! We all know that writing well takes time, thought, and a lot of practice. Come explore the resources offered here to help you on your way. Also, as you write...the University of Washington values the writing and research accomplished by its students, and even grants awards to students entering the scholarly conversation. If you are a new undergraduate scholar, check out the Library Research Award for Undergraduates or the Mary Gates Research Scholarship for some exciting funding opportunities! Library Research Award for Undergraduates: Submissions due May 3! Starting Points In the menu to the left are writing resources for: Individual Help...resources around UW that offer tutoring and other personalized support for writers Academic Writing...online books, handouts, and other sources related to writing for university-level assignments and work Writing Programs & Groups...resources around UW that guide writers in departmental programs or writer groups Application Writing...handouts and other sources related to writing for applications such as resumes, cover letters, personal statements, or scholarship essays Grammar & Style ... handouts and sources on mechanical and stylistic aspects of composition. Upcoming Writing Workshops Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards (OMSFA) Unavailable until further notice. English Composition Portfolio Workshops Unavailable until further notice. Composition and Rhetoric Librarian, Expository Writing Program John Holmes Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: M109 Odegaard Undergraduate Library University of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-3080 206.616.8430 Website Next: Individual Help >> Last Updated: Jan 7, 2022 2:24 PM URL: https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/writing-resources Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Subjects: English Tags: academic_writing, applications, citation trails, citation-management, composition, cover_letters, creative writing, cv, Expository Writing, Librarians, literature review, Odegaard Writing & Research Center, personal_statements, Research help, resumes, rhetoric, statements of purpose, writing_centers, writing_help, writing_strategies University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.