CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Streaming Video : Home Home About Features Documentaries Television Recorded Performance Training and Movement Historical Sources Open Access Resources Personal Streaming Services Using Film in the Classroom - For Faculty Nancy E. Friedland, Librarian for Film Studies & Performing Arts Email: nef4@columbia.edu Librarian Butler Library Columbia University Libraries Welcome! Welcome to the Libraries! The Columbia University Libraries offer a wide range of research, instruction, and borrowing services to support all levels of academic research. Hours & Study Spaces Check the hours of our libraries, departments and services. We offer a variety of study spaces and venues. Finding Library Materials The Libraries' website is a gateway to collections and services. CLIO is the libraries' primary search interface. It provides access to many kinds of resources, including books, databases, journals, and articles. Scan & Deliver enables students, faculty and staff to request electronic delivery of articles and book chapters from the general print collections of most Columbia Libraries. Borrow Direct enables you to borrow books directly from other university libraries if the book you need is unavailable or is not owned by Columbia University. Interlibrary Loan is the service to use for items that are not available through Borrow Direct, such as journal articles. Access to Other Libraries: Information on reciprocal access and on-site borrowing privileges at a number of other universities, including NYU. Image Credit Low Memorial Library exterior. (Scan #664) Historical Photograph Collection, University Archives, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University Libraries. Next: About >> Last Updated: Sep 29, 2021 10:03 AM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/streamingvideo Login to LibApps. CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.