Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Off-Campus Access to E-Resources Home Search this Guide Search Off-Campus Access to E-Resources : Home Home FAQ Lean Library Access Off-campus access to library e-resources The use of Yale’s e-resources (e-journals, e-books, data sets, databases, etc.) is limited by licensing agreements to persons affiliated with Yale University. Only current Yale students, faculty, and staff are eligible for remote access to online resources. How to access library e-resources when off campus To find online resources from Yale Library, start your research from Quicksearch, Orbis, Databases A-Z, or other library access points. Links to resources on library pages will prompt Yale users to log in with their NetID and password. Note: Some resources have alternative methods of access, which will be provided with instructions. Remote access requires Yale authorized users to authenticate through Yale's multifactor authentication (DUO). If a library-provided link fails to provide access, you can: install and log in to Yale's VPN (Cisco AnyConnect); reach out to Ask Yale Library for assistance. When do I need to authenticate? You will need to authenticate to access library resources if you are off campus and not connected to the Yale network. Authentication is not needed if you are: using a public workstation on Yale's campus; using a device that is connected to the YaleSecure or the Eduroam Wi-Fi network. What does off-campus authentication look like? Watch on YouTube Questions? Contact Ask Yale Library for FAQ and additional help via email, chat, or SMS. Next: FAQ >> Last Updated: Apr 4, 2022 8:46 AM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/OffCampusAccess Print Page Login to LibApps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility