Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Education - Gutman Library Gutman Library 2nd Floor Renovation FAQs Gutman Library 2nd Floor Renovation Up-to-date information on the Gutman Library renovation project. Table of Contents FAQs Gutman Library 2nd Floor Renovation FAQs* Contact Us Gutman Library 2nd Floor Renovation FAQs* Wait, what? Gutman Library is being renovated? Yes. Most of the renovation project is taking part on Gutman Library's 2nd floor. The project is co-locating HGSE's student-facing support services with the library services so there is a "one-stop shop" on Gutman Library's 2nd floor for research assistance, writing, communication, academic coaching, career, and academic program services. This project brings the Library together with the Office of Student Affairs, Career Services, and the Office of Academic Affairs. A variety of new spaces are being created for collaborative study and meeting rooms. The library is also getting new furniture, new reading rooms, and updated spaces to support advancing the community's digital needs, data visualization abilities, and presentation skills. What is the timeline of the renovation project? How will construction affect the HGSE community? Phase 1 of the construction project starts Mon, April 18, 2022, and ends in early 2023. The following are some key dates that may help you plan your use of the Gutman Library 2nd floor and its services. For full Library building and services hours, please see our Library Hours & Access page. Saturday, May 28 – Sunday, June 5: Gutman Library's 2nd Floor is closed for construction preparation. Monday, June 6: Gutman Library's 2nd Floor will reopen to the community. Entrances to the 2nd floor will remain the same via the central stairwell and the elevators. The two other interior stairwells will be for emergency use only. Where can I find quiet study areas? Study space remains available on the 1st, 3rd, and 4th floors. Each area has varying degrees of activity. The 1st floor is the busiest, whereas the 3rd and 4th floors are comparatively quiet (but not silent). Can students, faculty, or staff still reserve study rooms during construction? The study rooms on the 2nd floor are unavailable starting on Saturday, May 14. In 2023, new and several more study/meeting rooms will debut on the 2nd floor. Please use EMS, HGSE's Reservation System to find other available rooms at HGSE. Can I still request books from other libraries and pick them up at Gutman Library? It depends. Saturday, May 14 – Sunday, June 5: No. Gutman Library will not be an available pick-up location for requested library materials during this time. However, you can still request materials for pickup at another Harvard Library. Monday, June 6 – future: Yes! You can request books from other Harvard libraries, Borrow Direct, or Interlibrary Loan for pickup at the 2nd-floor circulation desk. I need research assistance. Where are HGSE's librarians? During weekday business hours when Gutman Library's 2nd floor is open, HGSE's librarians continue to offer drop-in and research appointments. If dropping by, ask for help first at the circulation desk. The staff at the circulation desk can direct you to us. Please check Gutman Library's hours for updated service modes and times. Use our Ask Us online form to ask your question, and we will email you. You can also make an appointment with us. Will there still be books on the 2nd floor after the renovation?! Yes, we promise there will be books on the 2nd floor after the renovation. We have carefully curated which books will remain on location and which are requestable from our storage locations. Our overall collection of print books continues to be more than 200,000 items, and we are committed to growing our e-book collections for easy online access. Remember, as members of the Harvard Library system, all HGSE community members have access to over 20 million print and digital volumes, which constitute the world's largest academic library. Next: Contact Us >> Last Updated: May 30, 2022 3:04 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/gutman-renovation Print Page Login to LibApps Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy