Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Research Support Workshops Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving Oregon State University LibGuides Reading Room: Healing Home Search this Guide Search Reading Room: Healing: Home Landing page for the Reading Room Healing Book & Art Collection Healing The spring '22 Reading Room theme is Healing In acknowledgement of the trying times we've endured and the strength we've shown, the Reading Room is opening this spring term with a collection of materials following the theme of Healing. Healing can refer to the physical process of repair, the emotional process of finding safety and comfort, or the personal journeys taken to find stability. More than these processes, though, healing can be defined by what it means to you. The Art Collection Wrench 1 & Wrench 2 by Koa Tom Photography on wood board Abstruse Expedition by Michael Heath Acrylic on canvas Fifteen Minutes by Erin Webber Watercolor on paper Debugging by Lee Neimi Watercolor on paper and photography Diversity in Rainbows by Chandra Char Watercolor on Paper Disassociation by Erin Webber Acrylic on canvas How Are You Feeling? by Taylor Norbury Ink and pencil on paper Finding Her Beauty by Chandra Char Watercolor on paper Ex Nihilo 1 and 2 by Scott Moss Acrylic on canvas The Healing Art Collection features art by local artists; some art has been submitted by OSU students, the parents of students, alumni, and community members unaffiliated with the university. Keeping this collection easy to submit to and community sourced are incredibly important. The Healing Collection Books On Anger by Agnes Callard (Editor); Deborah Chasman (Foreword by); Joshua Cohen (Foreword by) Is anger eternal? Righteous? Reflections on the causes and consequences of an phenomenon critical to our intimate and public lives.From Aristotle to Martha Nussbaum, philosophers have explored the moral status of anger. We get angry for a reason- we feel wronged. That reason can be eternal, some argue, because not even an apology or promise that it won't happen again can change the fact of the original harm. Although there are pragmatic reasons for ceasing to be angry and moving on, is eternal anger moral? Is anger righteous? In this collection, contributors consider these and other questions about the causes and consequences of anger. Leading off the debate, philosopher Agnes Callard argues that anger is not righteous rage; it is not an effort to solve a problem. Instead, it reflects a cry for help-a recognition that something shared is broken. And only in acknowledging the value of that shared project, she argues, can we begin together to repair it. Anger, then, is a starting point. But could there ever be the end of anger? Bringing together today's leading thinkers on anger, this volume raises questions critical to our intimate and public lives. Contributors Rachel Achs, Paul Bloom, Elizabeth Bruenig, Judith Butler, Agnes Callard, Daryl Cameron, Myisha Cherry, Barbara Herman, Desmond Jagmohan, David Konstan, Oded Na'aman, Martha C. Nussbaum, Amy Olberding, Whitney Phillips, Jesse Prinz, Victoria Spring, Brandon M. Terry ISBN: 9781946511546 Publication Date: 2020-02-11 Tibetan Yoga for Health and Well-Being by Alejandro Chaoul While yoga has become a common practice for health and well-being,the ancient tools of Tibetan yoga remained secret for centuries. Translated as "magical movements," Tibetan yoga can improve physical strength and support positive emotional and mental health, healing the body-energy-mind system with a full sense of awareness and harmony. In Tibetan Yoga for Health & Well-Being, Alejandro Chaoul, Ph.D., Assistant Professor and Director of Education at the Integrative Medicine Program at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, focuses on the five principal breath-energies of Tibetan medicine and yoga and how special body movements for each engage the five chakras in our body. Chaoul shares his experiences of daily practice in different settings and cultures, with a focus on simplicity, accessibility, and ease for your real-world lifestyle. He also provides a contextual understanding of the history and lineage of Tibetan yoga so that you will fully be able to remove obstacles from your life and welcome in health and well-being. ISBN: 9781401954345 Publication Date: 2018-07-17 Selling Yoga by Andrea Jain Premodern and early modern yoga comprise techniques with a wide range of aims, from turning inward in quest of the true self, to turning outward for divine union, to channeling bodily energy in pursuit of sexual pleasure. Early modern yoga also encompassed countercultural beliefs and practices. In contrast, today, modern yoga aims at the enhancement of the mind-body complex but does so according to contemporary dominant metaphysical, health, and fitness paradigms. Consequently, yoga is now a part of popular culture. In Selling Yoga, Andrea R. Jain explores the popularization of yoga in the context of late-twentieth-century consumer culture. She departs from conventional approaches by undermining essentialist definitions of yoga as well as assumptions that yoga underwent a linear trajectory of increasing popularization. While some studies trivialize popularized yoga systems by reducing them to the mere commodification or corruption of what is perceived as an otherwise fixed, authentic system, Jain suggests that this dichotomy oversimplifies the history of yoga as well as its meanings for contemporary practitioners. By discussing a wide array of modern yoga types, from Iyengar Yoga to Bikram Yoga, Jain argues that popularized yoga cannot be dismissed--that it has a variety of religious meanings and functions. Yoga brands destabilize the basic utility of yoga commodities and assign to them new meanings that represent the fulfillment of self-developmental needs often deemed sacred in contemporary consumer culture. ISBN: 9780199390243 Publication Date: 2014-12-08 Grit by Angela Duckworth In this instant New York Times bestseller, pioneering psychologist Angela Duckworth shows anyone striving to succeed--be it parents, students, educators, athletes, or business people--that the secret to outstanding achievement is not talent but a special blend of passion and persistence she calls "grit." Drawing on her own powerful story as the daughter of a scientist who frequently noted her lack of "genius," Duckworth, now a celebrated researcher and professor, describes her early eye-opening stints in teaching, business consulting, and neuroscience, which led to the hypothesis that what really drives success is not "genius" but a unique combination of passion and long-term perseverance. In Grit, she takes readers into the field to visit cadets struggling through their first days at West Point, teachers working in some of the toughest schools, and young finalists in the National Spelling Bee. She also mines fascinating insights from history and shows what can be gleaned from modern experiments in peak performance. Finally, she shares what she's learned from interviewing dozens of high achievers--from JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon to New Yorker cartoon editor Bob Mankoff to Seattle Seahawks Coach Pete Carroll. Among Grit's most valuable insights: *Why any effort you make ultimately counts twice toward your goal *How grit can be learned, regardless of I.Q. or circumstances *How lifelong interest is triggered *How much of optimal practice is suffering and how much ecstasy *Which is better for your child--a warm embrace or high standards *The magic of the Hard Thing Rule Winningly personal, insightful, and even life-changing, Grit is a book about what goes through your head when you fall down, and how that--not talent or luck--makes all the difference. ISBN: 9781501111105 Publication Date: 2016-05-03 Twice Blessed by Christie Balka (Editor); Andy Rose (Editor) ISBN: 9780807079089 Publication Date: 1989-10-01 The Mind's Own Physician by Dalai Lama; Jon Kabat-zinn; Richard J. Davidson (Editor); Zara Houshmand (Editor) By inviting the Dalai Lama and leading researchers in medicine, psychology, and neuroscience to join in conversation, the Mind & Life Institute set the stage for a fascinating exploration of the healing potential of the human mind.The Mind's Own Physician presents in its entirety the thirteenth Mind and Life dialogue, a discussion addressing a range of vital questions concerning the science and clinical applications of meditation: How do meditative practices influence pain and human suffering? What role does the brain play in emotional well-being and health? To what extent can our minds actually influence physical disease? Are there important synergies here for transforming health care, and for understanding our own evolutionary limitations as a species? Edited by world-renowned researchers Jon Kabat-Zinn and Richard J. Davidson, this book presents this remarkably dynamic interchange along with intriguing research findings that shed light on the nature of the mind, its capacity to refine itself through training, and its role in physical and emotional health. ISBN: 9781572249684 Publication Date: 2012-01-02 Belonging, Therapeutic Landscapes, and Networks by Ezra Griffith Why are certain places perceived to be therapeutic, to make people feel better about life, about themselves, and about their bodies? Could there be environmental, individual, societal, and attachment factors that come together in the healing process in both traditional and non-traditional landscapes? This observation is particularly important and has implications for the understanding of both healing and disruption in the lives of individuals. In Belonging, Therapeutic Landscapes, and Networks, Dr. Griffith examines factors that influence the intersection of health and place, one's sense of belonging, and the constructing of therapeutic spaces that minimize psychosocial disruption in our daily lives. ISBN: 9781351795715 Publication Date: 2018-06-14 Conflagration by John A. Buehrens A dramatic retelling of the story of the Transcendentalists, revealing them not as isolated authors but social activists whose spiritual friendships helped to shape progressive American values. In the tumultuous decades before and immediately after the Civil War, the Transcendentalists changed 19th century America, leading what Theodore Parker called "a Second American Revolution." If they had a geographic center, it was in urban Boston. This dynamic group biography illuminates the connections between key members of the Transcendentalist circle--including James Freeman Clarke, Elizabeth Peabody, Caroline Healey Dall, Elizabeth Stanton, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Theodore Parker, and Margaret Fuller--that created a community dedicated to radical social activism. They fought for the abolition of slavery, democratically governed churches, equal rights for women, and against the dehumanizing effects of brutal economic competition and growing social inequality. More than anything, the Transcendentalists believed in the practice of spiritual friendship -- transcending differences in social situation, gender, class, theology, and race. They understood that that none of us can ever fulfill our own moral and spiritual potential unless we care about the full spiritual and moral flourishing of others. ISBN: 9780807024058 Publication Date: 2020-01-14 Pharmacological Basis of Nursing Practice by Juliar F. Clark ISBN: 9780801662461 Publication Date: 1990-02-01 Invisible Nature by Kenneth Worthy "A revolutionary new understanding of the precarious modern human-nature relationship and a path to a healthier, more sustainable world. /b>midst all the wondrous luxuries of the modern world smartphones, fast intercontinental travel, Internet movies, fully stocked refrigerators lies an unnerving fact that may be even more disturbing than all the environmental and social costs of our lifestyles. The fragmentations of our modern lives, our disconnections from nature and from the consequences of our actions, make it difficult to follow our own values and ethics, so we can no longer be truly ethical beings. When we buy a computer or a hamburger, our impacts ripple across the globe, and, dissociated from them, we can't quite respond. Our personal and professional choices result in damages ranging from radioactive landscapes to disappearing rainforests, but we can't quite see how. Environmental scholar Kenneth Worthy traces the broken pathways between consumers and clean-room worker illnesses, superfund sites in Silicon Valley, and massively contaminated landscapes in rural Asian villages. His groundbreaking, psychologically based explanation confirms that our disconnecti ISBN: 9781616147631 Publication Date: 2013-08-06 Remapping Your Mind by Lewis Mehl-Madrona; Barbara Mainguy (As told to) A guide to retelling your personal, family, and cultural stories to transform your life, your relationships, and the world * Applies the latest neuroscience research on memory, brain mapping, and brain plasticity to the field of narrative therapy * Details mind-mapping and narrative therapy techniques that use story to change behavior patterns in ourselves, our relationships, and our communities * Explores how narrative therapy can help replace dysfunctional cultural stories with ones that build healthier relationships with each other and the planet We are born into a world of stories that quickly shapes our behavior and development without our conscious awareness. By retelling our personal, family, and cultural narratives we can transform the patterns of our own lives as well as the patterns that shape our communities and the larger social worlds in which we interact. Applying the latest neuroscience research on memory, brain mapping, and brain plasticity to the field of narrative therapy, Lewis Mehl-Madrona and Barbara Mainguy explain how the brain is specialized in the art of story-making and story-telling. They detail mind-mapping and narrative therapy techniques that use story to change behavior patterns in ourselves, our relationships, and our communities. They explore studies that reveal how memory works through story, how the brain recalls things in narrative rather than lists, and how our stories modify our physiology and facilitate health or disease. Drawing on their decades of experience in narrative therapy, the authors examine the art of helping people to change their story, providing brain-mapping practices to discover your inner storyteller and test if the stories you are living are functional or dysfunctional, healing or destructive. They explain how to create new characters and new stories, ones that excite you, help you connect with yourself, and deepen your intimate connections with others. Detailing how shared stories and language form culture, the authors also explore how narrative therapy can help replace dysfunctional cultural stories with those that offer templates for healthier relationships with each other and the planet. ISBN: 9781591432098 Publication Date: 2015-07-26 Against All Odds by Mahima Nayar Against All Odds: Psychosocial Distress and Healing among Women uses vivid ethnographic narratives to study linkages between socio-economic conditions and the mental health of women living in low-income neighbourhoods of big cities. After presenting anthropological insights related to the understanding of madness, mental health and mental illness, the author illustrates how the social position of women and factors inherent in urbanism have an impact on the level of psychosocial distress they experience. The book further explores the increasing medicalization of social problems whereby instead of actual problems being addressed, women get ′treated′. Nayar also takes stock of the different kinds of local 'healing' processes sought by women, and examines how the women's movement and cultural ways of healing have helped women in reducing the distress and violence in their everyday lives. Drawing from the author's ethnographic research in Delhi, the book offers a vital exploration of the interactions between individuals and systems, and argues that an equitable society is what is required to reduce psychosocial distress. This timely book that cuts across disciplinary locations will be of interest to scholars of gender studies, psychology and psychotherapy, social work and anthropology. ISBN: 9789353281915 Publication Date: 2019-01-17 Loss, Survive, Thrive by Meryl Hershey Beck No one is prepared for the loss of a child. No one. It feels completely unnatural for children to predecease their parents. Although it is not widely known, each year there are over 135,000 under 40-year-old deaths in the U.S. alone. And, according to one study, 19% of parents outlive their children--often carrying the weight of horrendous grief to their own graves. "Isolated and alone" is how parents often describe the grief process. Well-meaning friends and family members usually rush to their side... in the beginning. Once the floral arrangements have wilted, and the dinners from caring friends diminish, there isn't really much that can be said to bring comfort to a suffering parent, especially if those friends haven't experienced it themselves. Unfortunately, when these caring friends do bring up the loss, quite often they say the wrong things. Loss, Survive, Thrive offers a lifeline of hope. Each chapter is an inspirational story written by a parent who also experienced the agony of losing a child, reclaimed his/her vitality, and is now living a fulfilling life. Every story is authentic and heartfelt, designed to uplift and inspire. The collective authors reach out through the pages to virtually hold hands with those who are suffering. We, the contributors, have all been there. We know their pain, and we know about survival. And now, through our stories, we offer comfort and support in helping them get through the toughest time of their lives. Bereaved parents share an unspeakable bond. And Loss, Survive, Thrive imparts insight from what's likely the only voices that grieving parents can hear--others who have walked in their shoes. This book is a giant step toward healing the grieving heart. ISBN: 9781538125236 Publication Date: 2019-11-22 Bringing Zen Home by Paula Arai Healing lies at the heart of Zen in the home, as Paula Arai discovered in her pioneering research on the ritual lives of Zen Buddhist laywomen. She reveals a vital stream of religious practice that flourishes outside the bounds of formal institutions through sacred rites that women develop and transmit to one another. Everyday objects and common materials are used in inventive ways. For example, polishing cloths, vivified by prayer and mantra recitation, become potent tools. The creation of beauty through the arts of tea ceremony, calligraphy, poetry, and flower arrangement become rites of healing. Bringing Zen Home brings a fresh perspective to Zen scholarship by uncovering a previously unrecognized but nonetheless vibrant strand of lay practice. The creativity of domestic Zen is evident in the ritual activities that women fashion, weaving tradition and innovation, to gain a sense of wholeness and balance in the midst of illness, loss, and anguish. Their rituals include chanting, ingesting elixirs and consecrated substances, and contemplative approaches that elevate cleaning, cooking, child-rearing, and caring for the sick and dying into spiritual disciplines. Creating beauty is central to domestic Zen and figures prominently in Arai's analyses. She also discovers a novel application of the concept of Buddha nature as the women honor deceased loved ones as "personal Buddhas." One of the hallmarks of the study is its longitudinal nature, spanning fourteen years of fieldwork. Arai developed a "second-person," or relational, approach to ethnographic research prompted by recent trends in psychobiology. This allowed her to cultivate relationships of trust and mutual vulnerability over many years to inquire into not only the practices but also their ongoing and changing roles. The women in her study entrusted her with their life stories, personal reflections, and religious insights, yielding an ethnography rich in descriptive and narrative detail as well as nuanced explorations of the experiential dimensions and effects of rituals. In Bringing Zen Home, the first study of the ritual lives of Zen laywomen, Arai applies a cutting-edge ethnographic method to reveal a thriving domain of religious practice. Her work represents an important contribution on a number of fronts--to Zen studies, ritual studies, scholarship on women and religion, and the cross-cultural study of healing. ISBN: 9780824835354 Publication Date: 2011-09-30 Waging Peace by Robert R. Bowie; Richard H. Immerman Waging Peace offers the first fully comprehensive study of Eisenhower's "New Look" program of national security, which provided the groundwork for the next three decades of America's Cold War strategy. Though the Cold War itself and the idea of containment originated under Truman, it was leftto Eisenhower to develop the first coherent and sustainable strategy for addressing the issues unique to the nuclear age. To this end, he designated a decision-making system centered around the National Security Council to take full advantage of the expertise and data from various departments andagencies and of the judgment of his principal advisors. The result was the formation of a "long haul" strategy of preventing war and Soviet expansion and of mitigating Soviet hostility. Only now, in the aftermath of the Cold War, can Eisenhower's achievement be fully appreciated.This book will be of much interest to scholars and students of the Eisenhower era, diplomatic history, the Cold War, and contemporary foreign policy. ISBN: 9780195140484 Publication Date: 2000-09-21 The Jewish Book of Grief and Healing by Stuart M. Matlins (Editor); Ron Wolfson (Foreword by); Anne Brener (Preface by) Wisdom, solace and inspiration from Jewish tradition to bring you hope and healing after loss. "Mourning can open doors you may not have imagined before your life was shaken by loss. This book provides keys to those doors and a way into the rooms beyond them. Whether you stand at grief's threshold or give counsel to someone who does, this book can offer guidance.... With words of wisdom, ranging from comforting to provocative, each author stands at the entrance to one of mourning's doors, extending a hand to offer the key you will need, inviting you into one of these deep conversations." --from the Preface by Rabbi Anne Brener, LCSW Beloved and respected spiritual leaders from across the Jewish denominational spectrum share insights from their experience, Jewish tradition and their personal encounters with grief and healing. This wide range of perspectives, offered with grace and compassion, will be a treasured resource in your time of grief. Whether mourning a recent loss or experiencing pain from old scars, you will be encouraged and challenged to be fully, vulnerably present to your emotions; forgive your own shortcomings and those of others; and remain open to love despite pain and uncertainty. Contributors: Rabbi Bradley Shavit Artson, DHL * Rabbi Anne Brener, LCSW * Dr. Norman J. Cohen * Rabbi Mike Comins * Rabbi David A. Cooper * Rabbi Rachel Cowan * Rabbi Edward Feinstein * Rabbi Nancy Flam * Rabbi Lori Forman-Jacobi * Rabbi Dayle A. Friedman, MSW, MA, BCC * Debbie Friedman * Rabbi Nancy Fuchs-Kreimer, PhD * Nan Fink Gefen, PhD * Rabbi Neil Gillman, PhD * Rabbi Edwin Goldberg, DHL * Rabbi Arthur Green, PhD * Dr. David Hartman * Rabbi Lawrence A. Hoffman, PhD * Rabbi Margaret Holub * Rabbi Karyn D. Kedar * Rabbi Lawrence Kushner * Rabbi Maurice Lamm * Rabbi Naomi Levy * Rabbi David Lyon * Rabbi Joseph B. Meszler * Rabbi James L. Mirel * Rabbi Kerry M. Olitzky * Rabbi Daniel F. Polish, PhD * Rabbi Sandy Eisenberg Sasso * Rabbi Harold M. Schulweis * Rabbi Dannel I. Schwartz * Rabbi Elie Kaplan Spitz * Rabbi Rami Shapiro * Rachel Josefowitz Siegel * Rabbi Shira Stern, DMin, BCC * Rabbi Nancy Wechsler-Azen * Karen Bonnell Werth * Rabbi Nancy H. Wiener, DMin * Dr. Ron Wolfson * Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman For use by individuals as well as in groups or counseling settings. ISBN: 9781580238526 Publication Date: 2016-03-25 Shamanism and Islam by Thierry Zarcone (Editor); Angela Hobart (Editor) Here, Thierry Zarcone and Angela Hobart offer a vigorous and authoritative exploration of the link between Islam and shamanism in contemporary Muslim culture, examining how the old practice of shamanism was combined with elements of Sufism in order to adapt to wider Islamic society. Shamanism and Islam thus surveys shamanic practices in Central Asia, the Middle East, North Africa and the Balkans, to show how the Muslim shaman, like his Siberian counterpart, cultivated personal relations with spirits to help individuals through healing and divination. It explores the complexities and variety of rituals, involving music, dance and, in some regions, epic and bardic poetry, demonstrating the close links between shamanism and the various arts of the Islamic world. This is the first in-depth exploration of 'Islamized shamanism', and is a valuable contribution to the field of Islamic Studies, Religion, Anthropology, and an understanding of the Middle East more widely. ISBN: 9781784537456 Publication Date: 2017-01-27 Sparks of Light by Zalman M. Schachter; Edward Hoffman ISBN: 0394721888 Publication Date: 1984-01-12 Recommend a Future Theme or Book Suggest a Book or Theme What's the Reading Room? Past Themes: Metamorphosis Reading Intersectionality Reading Peoples' Lives Healing Collection Books Cultural Wounding, Healing, and Emerging Ethnicities by Amanda Kearney Today, there is new appeal in the analysis of ethnicity, not merely as innate and fixed identities or fragmented and lost identities, but rather as wounded and then creatively reclaimed. Kearney discusses international examples of cultural wounding and healing and presents two close readings of emerging ethnicities in Australia and Brazil. ISBN: 9781137480569 Publication Date: 2014-11-26 Therapeutic Nations by Dian Million Self-determination is on the agenda of Indigenous peoples all over the world. This analysis by an Indigenous feminist scholar challenges the United Nations-based human rights agendas and colonial theory that until now have shaped Indigenous models of self-determination. Gender inequality and gender violence, Dian Million argues, are critically important elements in the process of self-determination. Million contends that nation-state relations are influenced by a theory of trauma ascendant with the rise of neoliberalism. Such use of trauma theory regarding human rights corresponds to a therapeutic narrative by Western governments negotiating with Indigenous nations as they seek self-determination. Focusing on Canada and drawing comparisons with the United States and Australia, Million brings a genealogical understanding of trauma against a historical filter. Illustrating how Indigenous people are positioned differently in Canada, Australia, and the United States in their articulation of trauma, the author particularly addresses the violence against women as a language within a greater politic. The book introduces an Indigenous feminist critique of this violence against the medicalized framework of addressing trauma and looks to the larger goals of decolonization. Noting the influence of humanitarian psychiatry, Million goes on to confront the implications of simply dismissing Indigenous healing and storytelling traditions. Therapeutic Nations is the first book to demonstrate affect and trauma's wide-ranging historical origins in an Indigenous setting, offering insights into community healing programs. The author's theoretical sophistication and original research make the book relevant across a range of disciplines as it challenges key concepts of American Indian and Indigenous studies. ISBN: 9780816530182 Publication Date: 2013-09-26 Every Grain of Sand by J. A. Wainwright (Editor) Universal in scope, yet focusing on recognizable Canadian places, this collection of essays connects individuals' love of nature to larger social issues, to cultural activities, and to sustainable technology. Subjects include activism in Cape Breton, eco-feminism, Native perspectives on the history of humans' relationship with the natural world, the inconsistency of humankind's affinity with nature alongside its capacity to destroy, and scientific and traditional accounts of evolution and how they can come together for the welfare of Earth's ecology. These essays encourage us to break down the power-based divisions of centre versus marginal politics, to talk with our perceived enemies in environmental wars, to consider activism as a personal commitment, and to resist the construction of a ""post-natural"" world. Using a combination of personal memoirs and formal essays, Every Grain of Sand seeks to involve readers in the extraordinary places they inhabit - and usually take for granted - and will appeal to both the general reader and to students in humanities, social sciences, and environmental studies. It is unique for its presentation of entirely Canadian perspectives on ecology and environmental issues. ISBN: 9780889204539 Publication Date: 2004-12-30 To Heal a Nation by Jan C. Scruggs; Joel L. Swerdlow ISBN: 9780060154042 Publication Date: 1985-05-01 Wendell Berry and Religion by Joel James Shuman (Editor); L. Roger Owens (Editor); Norman Wirzba (Contribution by) Farmer, poet, essayist, and environmental writer Wendell Berry is acclaimed for his ideas regarding the values inherent in an agricultural society. Place, community, good work, and simple pleasures are but a few of the values that form the bedrock of Berry's thought. While the notion of reverence is central to Berry, he is not widely known as a religious writer. However, the moral underpinnings of his work are rooted in Christian tradition, articulating the tenet that faith and stewardship of the land are not mutually exclusive. In Wendell Berry and Religion, editors Joel J. Shuman and L. Roger Owens probe the moral and spiritual implications of Berry's work. Chief among them are the notions that the earth is God's provisional gift to mankind and that studying how we engage material creation reflects important truths. This collection reveals deep, thoughtful, and provocative conversations within Berry's writings, illuminating the theological inspirations inherent in his work. ISBN: 9780813125558 Publication Date: 2009-11-09 Three Tigers, One Mountain by Michael Booth From the author of The Almost Nearly Perfect People, a lively tour through Japan, Korea, and China, exploring the intertwined cultures and often fraught history of these neighboring countries. There is an ancient Chinese proverb that states, "Two tigers cannot share the same mountain." However, in East Asia, there are three tigers on that mountain: China, Japan, and Korea, and they have a long history of turmoil and tension with each other. In his latest entertaining and thought provoking narrative travelogue, Michael Booth sets out to discover how deep, really, is the enmity between these three "tiger" nations, and what prevents them from making peace. Currently China's economic power continues to grow, Japan is becoming more militaristic, and Korea struggles to reconcile its westernized south with the dictatorial Communist north. Booth, long fascinated with the region, travels by car, ferry, train, and foot, experiencing the people and culture of these nations up close. No matter where he goes, the burden of history, and the memory of past atrocities, continues to overshadow present relationships. Ultimately, Booth seeks a way forward for these closely intertwined, neighboring nations. An enlightening, entertaining and sometimes sobering journey through China, Japan, and Korea, Three Tigers, One Mountain is an intimate and in-depth look at some of the world's most powerful and important countries. ISBN: 9781250114068 Publication Date: 2020-04-14 Plants, People and Culture by Michael J. Balick; Paul Alan Cox Discoveries of new drugs, organic pesticides, and other plant uses based on research in traditional cultures are increasingly common. The study of human/plant interactions which draws on the methods of antropology, botany, pharmacology and other disciplines is reported here. The text highlights the discovery of new drugs and chemical compounds and insights into conservation in order to aid understanding of the relationship between humans and plants. ISBN: 9780716750611 Publication Date: 1996-04-01 Memory Passages by Natasha Goldman For decades, artists and architects have struggled to relate to the Holocaust in visual form, resulting in memorials that feature a diversity of aesthetic strategies. In Memory Passages, Natasha Goldman analyzes both previously-overlooked and internationally-recognized Holocaust memorials in the United States and Germany from the postwar period to the present, drawing on many historical documents for the first time. From the perspectives of visual culture and art history, the book examines changing attitudes toward the Holocaust and the artistic choices that respond to it. The book introduces lesser-known sculptures, such as Nathan Rapoport's Monument to the Six Million Jewish Martyrs in Philadelphia, as well as internationally-acclaimed works, such as Peter Eisenman's Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe in Berlin. Other artists examined include Will Lammert, Richard Serra, Joel Shapiro, Gerson Fehrenbach, Margit Kahl, and Andy Goldsworthy.Archival documents and interviews with commissioners, survivors, and artists reveal the conversations and decisions that have shaped Holocaust memorials. Memory Passages suggests that memorial designers challenge visitors to navigate and activate spaces to engage with history and memory by virtue of walking or meandering. This book will be valuable for anyone teaching--or seeking to better understand--the Holocaust. ISBN: 9781439914250 Publication Date: 2020-02-20 Hope Abundant by Pui-Lan Kwok (Editor) A new generation of feminist theologians from Africa, Asia, Oceania, and Latin America is responding to their changing world with critical theological insights and social analyses. This new reader, including indigenous voices, comprises eighteen reflections by women theologians who face daily poverty, violence, civil strife, war, and cultural alienation, yet who find abundant hope through their faith. Book jacket. ISBN: 9781570758805 Publication Date: 2010-09-01 Asegi Stories by Qwo-Li Driskill In Cherokee Asegi udanto refers to people who either fall outside of men's and women's roles or who mix men's and women's roles. Asegi, which translates as "strange," is also used by some Cherokees as a term similar to "queer." For author Qwo-Li Driskill, asegi provides a means by which to reread Cherokee history in order to listen for those stories rendered "strange" by colonial heteropatriarchy. As the first full-length work of scholarship to develop a tribally specific Indigenous Queer or Two-Spirit critique, Asegi Stories examines gender and sexuality in Cherokee cultural memory, how they shape the present, and how they can influence the future. The theoretical and methodological underpinnings of Asegi Stories derive from activist, artistic, and intellectual genealogies, referred to as "dissent lines" by Maori scholar Linda Tuhiwai Smith. Driskill intertwines Cherokee and other Indigenous traditions, women of color feminisms, grassroots activisms, queer and Trans studies and politics, rhetoric, Native studies, and decolonial politics. Drawing from oral histories and archival documents in order to articulate Cherokee-centered Two-Spirit critiques, Driskill contributes to the larger intertribal movements for social justice. ISBN: 9780816530489 Publication Date: 2016-04-07 Black Youth Rising by Shawn A. Ginwright Black Youth Rising is a book that restores hope and possibility to the lives of urban black youth. In this pathbreaking account, author Shawn Ginwright details the powerful positive impact that community-based organizations can have in rebuilding the lives of urban black youth, through a process he calls radical healing. Readers can see how caring adults in a community setting are able to create safe spaces for youth to turn away from neighborhood violence and their own traumatic pasts. Together, young people build a refuge within their own community that allows them to avoid the common dangers of street life and build healthy identities and a productive future for themselves and others. Combining a theoretically grounded framework with practical strategies, ""Black Youth Rising"" offers a new model for understanding what African American youth need in order to succeed in school and in life. This book is essential reading for educators, social workers, community organizers, after-school coordinators, and all who work with inner-city adolescents. ISBN: 9780807750216 Publication Date: 2009-11-30 Photographic Returns by Shawn Michelle Smith In Photographic Returns Shawn Michelle Smith traces how historical moments of racial crisis come to be known photographically and how the past continues to inhabit, punctuate, and transform the present through the photographic medium in contemporary art. Smith engages photographs by Rashid Johnson, Sally Mann, Deborah Luster, Lorna Simpson, Jason Lazarus, Carrie Mae Weems, Taryn Simon, and Dawoud Bey, among others. Each of these artists turns to the past--whether by using nineteenth-century techniques to produce images or by re-creating iconic historic photographs--as a way to use history to negotiate the present and to call attention to the unfinished political project of racial justice in the United States. By interrogating their use of photography to recall, revise, and amplify the relationship between racial politics of the past and present, Smith locates a temporal recursivity that is intrinsic to photography, in which images return to haunt the viewer and prompt reflection on the present and an imagination of a more just future. ISBN: 9781478004684 Publication Date: 2020-01-03 Woods, Shore, Desert by Thomas Merton; Patrick Hart (Illustrator) ISBN: 0890131406 Publication Date: 1991-01-01 There are many more books IN the collection, stop by the Reading Room on the 2nd floor of the library! Last Updated: May 3, 2022 4:48 PM URL: https://guides.library.oregonstate.edu/readingroomhealing Print Page Login to LibApps This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial 4.0 International License. | Details of our policy Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 Phone: 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2020 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter In the Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Collaborative Learning Center Student Multimedia Services Northwest Art Exhibit Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library Federal Depository Library Program