University of Kansas logo Libraries KU Libraries Subject & Course Guides Dissertations and Theses at KU and more Locating dissertations and theses Search this Guide Search Dissertations and Theses at KU and more: Locating dissertations and theses This guide indicates what resources to search for digitized and print theses and dissertations written by KU students and resources to search for theses and dissertations Home Format status of KU dissertations and theses Locating dissertations and theses Searching for KU theses and dissertations The best tool to search for both print and electronic theses and dissertations is through the Quick Search (Primo) which includes records in the catalog, KU ScholarWorks, and the ProQuest Dissertations and Theses database. The practice of adding records to the catalog for theses and dissertations ceased 2014. Therefore records to the currently digitized theses and dissertations from 1883 to 1922 are located in KU ScholarWorks or through the Quick Search. This screen indicates how to search for a dissertation title specific to KU through the Advanced Search option. Databases for finding dissertations and theses Sources for locating dissertations and theses specific to KU Dissertations & theses @ University of Kansas Contains citations and abstracts of dissertations and theses submitted by the University of Kansas and published in UMI's Dissertations Abstracts database, and full text of KU dissertations published after 1996 and KU theses published after 2005. KU Scholarworks - Dissertations and Theses community These collections contain dissertations and theses authored by University of Kansas students. Current works are posted here in fulfillment of graduation requirements. KU Library Catalog If not available electronically, older dissertations and theses can also be identified through the libraries' catalog. Other options for locating dissertations and theses ProQuest dissertations & theses global Provides online access to dissertations and master's theses most available in full text for immediate downloading. Citations are available for dissertations dating from 1861 and full text online from 1997 for over 1,000 schools submitting to the ProQuest UMI database. American Doctoral Dissertations This freely accessible database indexes thousands of theses and dissertations by American universities from 1902 to the present and provides links to full text where available. Networked Digital Library of Theses & Dissertations (NDLTD) Indexes electronic theses and dissertations from across the globe. Defense Technical Information Center Site includes technical reports, journal articles, dissertations, briefs and more relating to defense and military systems Center for Research Libraries catalog Dissertations available at the Center for Research Libraries (CRL) can be searched through the Center's catalog. Non-U.S. and non-Canadian doctoral dissertations are added to CRL's collections. If unavailable, CRL will purchase through their demand purchase program and can be requested using KU Libraries' interlibrary program. Research Help We can help with your research questions -- contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. We're online! Chat with us now. << Previous: Format status of KU dissertations and theses Last Updated: Aug 20, 2021 9:42 AM URL: https://guides.lib.ku.edu/dissertations_theses Print Page Login to LibApps. Subjects: How to guides, Tutorials Tags: dissertations, theses University of Kansas Libraries 1425 Jayhawk Blvd Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Contact Libraries 785-864-8983 Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Libraries website feedback. KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.