Skip to Main Content Ask Us! Library Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides A-Z Databases A-Z Databases A selection of databases to find citations, full text articles, and other materials. See Guides for recommended databases in each discipline. Starting Points Academic Search Complete This link opens in a new window Scholarly articles and general interest sources in all fields. FirstSearch This link opens in a new window The most powerful interface for searching WorldCat, including more detailed records; often used by library staff and expert searchers. Find books and other materials not available in UW and Summit Libraries; use Interlibrary Loan to request those items. Hathi Trust This link opens in a new window Digital library of books and journals scanned by a partnership of major research institutions and libraries. See our HathiTrust Guide Web of Science This link opens in a new window Citation index for the sciences, social sciences, and arts and humanities. WorldCat Search the holdings of over 10,000 libraries worldwide. Use this search to find books and other materials not available in UW and Summit Libraries. Use Interlibrary Loan to request items not owned by UW Libraries or its borrowing partners. More databases, including librarian-recommended resources & research tips: UW Libraries Guides Health Sciences Library Guides UW Bothell/Cascadia Library Guides UW Tacoma Library Guides Responsible Use of Electronic Resources The University of Washington is committed to providing access for individuals with disabilities. If you need an accessible alternative format for content in these electronic resources, please contact uwlib-a11y@uw.edu. Library E-Resource Accessibility Testing Article Lookup Search for an article by: DOI name: (?) PMID: (?) New / Trial Databases Loading... The following databases are newly acquired or being evaluated for a future subscription. African Diaspora, 1860-Present This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Personal papers, organizational papers, journals, newsletters, court documents, letters, and ephemera from people of African descent, with a focus on communities in the Caribbean, Brazil, India, United Kingdom, and France, from 1860-Present. Access ends June 30, 2022. Anthropological Fieldwork Online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Anthropological Fieldwork Online is a fully indexed, primary source database that brings the fieldwork underpinning the great ethnographies of the early 20th century into the digital world. Access ends June 30, 2022. AVON - Academic Video Online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Documentaries, educational films, and news clips in many subject areas. Black Abolitionist Papers This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Articles, documents, correspondence, proceedings, manuscripts, and literary works of almost 300 Black abolitionists from 1830-1865 showing the full range of their activities in the United States, Canada, England, Scotland, Ireland, France and Germany. Access ends June 30, 2022. Border and Migration Studies Online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Primary source documents and media that explores and provides historical background on more than thirty key worldwide border areas, including: U.S. and Mexico; the European Union; Afghanistan; Israel; Turkey; The Congo; Argentina; China; Thailand; and others. Access ends June 30, 2022. Business periodicals index retrospective: 1913-1982 This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Indexing and citations of business magazines, trade, and scholarly journals. Contemporary World Drama This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Works by established and up-and-coming contemporary playwrights from around the world. Access ends June 30, 2022. Coronavirus Research Database This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Collection of journal articles, preprints, conference proceedings, dissertations related to COVID-19 and other coronaviruses. Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts Volume 1 This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Transcripts of counseling and therapy sessions and first-person narratives illuminating the experience of mental illness and treatment. Access ends June 30, 2022. Digital Sanborn Maps This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Detailed property and land-use records that depict the grid of everyday life in more than 12,000 U.S. towns and cities from 1867-1970. Access ends June 30, 2022. Diversity Collection This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Ethnic, minority, and native presses, grassroots newspapers and magazines, and journals, news and newsletters focusing on gender and sexuality, from 1970-current. Encompasses Alt-PressWatch, Ethnic NewsWatch, and GenderWatch. Early Modern Books This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Early Modern Books provides an integrated search experience across both Early English Books Online and Early European Books for the period 1450 to 1700 Access ends June 30, 2022. EIU Viewpoint This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Reports on politics, economics and market-moving topics including macroeconomic data for nearly 200 countries. Engineering Case Studies Online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Video and text material focusing on engineering failures and successes. Access ends June 30, 2022. Environmental Issues Online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Text, archival, primary sources, video and audio resources about key environmental challenges, including climate change, water/air pollution, biodiversity, conservation, agriculture, deforestation and more from the 20th and 21st centuries. Access ends June 30, 2022. Food Studies Online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Archival content, visual ephemera, books, and videos that explore how food shapes the world around us. Access ends June 30, 2022. GenderWatch This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Journals, magazines, newspapers, newsletters, regional publications, books and NGO, government and special reports on how gender impacts a broad spectrum of subject areas, from 1970 to current. International Relations, Military Conflicts This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database CIA Cold War research reports (1917-1976), confidential U.S. State Department central files (1960-1969), Office of Strategic Services (OSS) and State Department intelligence and research reports (1941-1961), U.S. Diplomatic Post records (1914-1945), and Vietnam War and American Foreign Policy records from 1960-1975 (ProQuest History Vault). Access ends June 30, 2022. Japanese American Incarceration: Records of the War Relocation Authority, 1942-1946 This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Documents of the day-today running of the 10 relocation camps from 1942-1946 (ProQuest History Vault). Access ends June 30, 2022. JSTOR Security Studies This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, temporary access to this resource is being made available through June 30, 2022 Explore a wide range of journals, ebooks, and research reports in the field of security studies. This content looks at security studies through a broad lens, encompassing research on international security and peace and conflict studies from all corners of the globe. Manuscript Women's Letters and Diaries This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Personal writings of women of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. Access ends June 30, 2022. Mass Incarceration and Prison Studies This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Archival and reference materials, court cases, first-hand accounts, videos, Supreme Court audio files, research on rehabilitation, training materials and artistic works on historical and contemporary events and themes around mass incarceration. Access ends June 30, 2022. Men's Magazine Archive This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database The backfiles of selected leading men’s consumer magazines, with coverage from 1854-2015. Access ends June 30, 2022. National Theatre Collection 1 This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Video of theatrical performances from the National Theatre. North American Immigrant Letters, Diaries and Oral Histories This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Letters and diaries, oral histories, interviews, and other personal narratives of immigrants to America and Canada between 1800 and 1950. Access ends June 30, 2022. Oxford Research Encyclopedias This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database In-depth articles in a wide range of subject areas. Oxford Very Short Introductions This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Concise introductions to a diverse range of subjects written by experts in the field who combine facts, analysis, new ideas, and enthusiasm to make challenging topics highly readable. Trial ends June 30, 2022. Philosophy in the Islamic World Online: 8th - 10th Centuries This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database A comprehensive and unprecedented reference work devoted to the history of philosophy in the realms of Islam in its formative period: from its beginnings in the eighth century up to the tenth century AD. Proquest Historical African American Newspapers This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Newspaper articles from: Atlanta Daily World; Cleveland Call and Post; Michigan Chronicle; New York Amsterdam News; Norfolk Journal and Guide; Philadelphia Tribune; Pittsburgh Courier; The Baltimore Afro-American. The Chicago Defender is available through the Black Studies Center. Access ends June 30, 2022 Religious Magazine Archive This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database An archive of magazines devoted to religious topics from a wide variety of religions, spanning 19th-21st centuries. Access ends June 30, 2022. Security Issues online This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Documents and videos from the 20th and 21st centuries on key events and themes related to security. Access ends June 30, 2022. Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Law and Order in 19th Century America, 1636-1880 This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Documents about the international and domestic trafficking of slaves in Britain’s New World colonies and the United States. (ProQuest History Vault). Access ends June 30, 2022. Students for a Democratic Society, Vietnam Veterans Against the War, and the Anti-Vietnam War Movement This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Documents from 12 anti-Vietnam War organizations. (ProQuest History Vault). Access ends June 30, 2022. TERIS This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Expert guidance on the pregnancy risks of medications and other environmental exposures including infections and vaccines. Westlaw Campus Research This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Federal and state court cases, statutes, & regulations; law reviews & journals; legal research encyclopedias; and some international legal resources, company information, and news. Campus Research is not available to the law school or the office of the general counsel. Workers, Labor Unions, and Radical Politics This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window Trial This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Records documenting the American workers and labor unions from 1862 to the 20th century (ProQuest History Vault). Access ends June 30, 2022. Loading... Loading... Toggle search filters navigation Database Subject Filter All Subjects Advanced Legal Research African Studies American & Canadian Studies American Sign Language Anatomy & Physiology Animal Studies Anthropology Anthropology & Archaeology Aquatic & Fishery Sciences Architecture Art Arts Asian Studies Basic Legal Research Biology Built Environments Business Chemistry Cinema Studies Classics Communication Community Psychology Comparative History of Ideas (CHID) Computer Science Computing & Technology Creative Writing Criminal Justice Cultural Studies Dance Data Data Resources Digital Scholarship Earth & Space Sciences (Geology & Geophysics) East Asian Studies Economics Education Engineering English English Foundations & International Students Environment Environmental Science Ethnic & Multicultural Studies Ethnic and Multicultural Studies European Studies Film Studies Foreign, Comparative & International Legal Research Gay and Lesbian Studies (GLBTQ) Gender Studies Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies Genealogy & Family History Geography Geospatial Science Global Honors Global Studies Government Publications Grants & Nonprofits Health & Medicine Health Sciences & Medicine Health Studies Healthcare Leadership History HSL - Browse All Libguides HSL - Citation Management Tools HSL - Database Searching HSL - Evidence-Based Practice HSL - Grants & Publishing HSL - How To HSL - Liaison Librarians HSL - Mobile Information HSL - Specialty Topics HSL - Student & Course Guides Human Rights Humanities Images Indigenous Studies Information Studies Interactive Media Design International Studies Latin American Studies Law Linguistics Literature Mathematics Museology Music Music & Audio Near East Studies News Nursing Nursing & Health Nutrition Philosophy Philosophy & Ethics Physics Policy Studies & Political Science Political Science & Public Affairs Political Science, Government & Law Psychology Religion Science Science & Technology Social Sciences Social Work Sociology South Asian Studies Southeast Asian Studies Special Collections Speech & Hearing Statistics Sustainability Theatre U.S. Legal Research Urban Studies Using the Law Library Washington State Women's Studies Writing Studies Database Types Filter All TypesArticlesAudioBiographiesConference PapersDataDictionariesDissertations & ThesesE-booksEncyclopediasGovernment InformationGovernment Information, Primary SourcesImagesMapsNewsPolls & SurveysPrimary SourcesReferenceVideo Database Vendors Filter All Vendors / ProvidersAlexander StreetBloombergBloomsburyEBSCOEuromonitorGaleHeinOnlineLexisNexisMcGraw HillProQuestSAGEThomson DATABASES Go AllABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ# Clear Filters / Browse All Loading... More databases, including librarian-recommended resources & research tips: UW Libraries Guides Health Sciences Library Guides UW Bothell/Cascadia Library Guides UW Tacoma Library Guides Powered by Springshare. All rights reserved. Login to LibApps Report a problem. title × Loading... Close UW Libraries | UW Bothell/CC Campus Library | UW Tacoma Library | Health Sciences Library | Gallagher Law Library Responsible Use of Electronic Resources | Privacy | Terms