Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Divinity School Library Essential Tools and Services Home Essential Tools and Services What HDS students need to know about using the library Table of Contents Home 1. Course Readings 2. HOLLIS 3. Religion Databases Cross-Search 4. More Search Engines/Article Databases 5. Defeat Paywalls 6. Scan and Deliver 7. Zotero 8. Research Services Ask Us! We are Gloria, Renata, and Rebecca, Research Services at the HDS Library. Email us a question. 1. Course Readings Course readings are on the course website at canvas.harvard.edu. Select "Library Reserves" to view library-provided content. Course Readings tutorial (28 sec). 2. HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard’s library catalog. Sign in to see licensed digital content, delivery options, and to access your account. Hollis tutorial (1 min). 3. Religion Databases Cross-Search Our most important religion databases don't share information with HOLLIS. Use Religion Databases Cross-Search to complement your HOLLIS results. Religion Databases Cross-Search tutorial (1:24 min). Religion Databases Cross- Search searches prominent religion databases covering thousands of scholarly publications -- Academic Search Premier, ATLA Religion Database, Bibliography of Asian Studies, Christian Periodical Index, Index to Jewish Periodicals, Index Islamicus, New Testament Abstracts, Old Testament Abstracts, and Philosopher's Index. 4. More Search Engines/Article Databases Additional specialized databases can be accessed from the library’s website. We curate a list of key databases that align with the HDS curriculum. These selections are a subset of all Harvard Library databases. 5. Defeat Paywalls When you find an article that costs money, use the Lean Library browser extension or our Bookmarklet to access the Harvard Library subscription. More information. 6. Scan and Deliver Can't get to the library to pick something up? Scan and Deliver is a free electronic document delivery service for the Harvard community. Submit a request and we'll scan a journal article or book chapter and deliver it to you via email. Scan and Deliver tutorial (54 sec). 7. Zotero Use Zotero to organize book and article references in one or more virtual folders. From these references, you’re able to produce instant notes and bibliographies in a citation style of your choice. Most library databases, including HOLLIS, will format results as citations. For information about Harvard-supported citation tools and trainings, see Research Management and Citation Tools at Harvard. 8. Research Services Get to know the Research Services team at Harvard Divinity School Library— Gloria, Rebecca, and Renata. We can help you locate information, develop a research strategy, find sources on any topic, and work on any research-related question, problem, or skill. No library problem is too small. We are here for you! Ask Us. Last Updated: Jul 9, 2021 9:23 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/hds/top-tips Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Religion Tags: Harvard Divinity School, religion, research HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy Policy | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2015 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.