Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Research Support and Library Services Get it @ Yale Mail to Address Service Search this Guide Search Get it @ Yale: Mail to Address Service Get It @Yale Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Scan and Deliver Mail to Address Service Information for CT Libraries Contact Resource Sharing Mail to Address Service Mail to Address Service Get library materials mailed to the address of your choice. How do I Request Materials? Find request links for eligible materials in Orbis/Quicksearch Search for items and use the link in the item record to request the item be mailed to an address of your choice. You may also request Interlibrary Loan or BorrowDirect materials be mailed to your home address by choosing the Mail to Address option on the interlibrary loan request form or in the BorrowDirect system. Who is eligible? Current students, faculty, and staff. What materials can be requested? Most regularly circulating library materials can be requested. Interlibrary loan and BorrowDirect material can also be mailed to an address. Where can items be mailed? We can mail items to any U.S. street address. Sorry, we are not able to mail items internationally, to on-campus addresses, or to P.O. Boxes. Can I request a tracking number? Yes! Please email askyalelibrary@yale.edu to request a tracking number for your materials. All materials are shipped through via UPS. How do I give the library my address? On the Mail to Address request form, there is a place to verify the address you would like your items shipped to. Be sure to update this information by clicking Edit this Information. *NOTE: When you click "Edit This Information", your personal information will open in a new screen. Once your have updated your address information, you will need to return to the original request window in order to submit your request! How do I return materials to the library? Feel free to return your borrowed materials to the library when you are back on campus. Items can be returned to library book drops located at various library locations. You can renew material through My Library Account or by contacting Ask Yale Library. If you want to return your material through the mail, please contact Ask Yale Library for options. Questions? Contact Ask Yale Library or Interlibrary Loan for more assistance. Chat with us! << Previous: Scan and Deliver Next: Information for CT Libraries >> Last Updated: Feb 9, 2022 8:16 AM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/getit Print Page Login to LibApps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility