Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Main navigation Search Breadcrumb Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Top navigation: Contact, Library account : PennKey Library Account Logout Login Log in to Franklin with PennKey Do you need help because you have No PennKey? Click here. Library Home Libraries & hours Make an appointment Check it to expand the navigation menu, uncheck to hide the menu." show menu items Library Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan implementation Locations & hours Social Media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries Staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Program & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the news Give now Guides Type your search Penn Libraries Guides Using Electronic Resources Accessing Electronic Resources (On and Off Campus / EZproxy) Search this Guide Search Using Electronic Resources Using Electronic Resources Use Policy for “Penn Only” Electronic Resources Accessing Electronic Resources (On and Off Campus / EZproxy) PennText connects to full-text PennText Article Finder Browser Extensions Lean Library LibKey Nomad EZproxy Bookmarklet Google Scholar and Library Links BrowZine - Browse Journals Campus VPNs Finding Ebooks Three Browser-related Steps that Resolve Many Problems Optimal Browser Settings Commonly Reported Problems and Solutions Accessing Electronic Resources (On and Off Campus / EZproxy) Use of Penn Libraries licensed resources is generally restricted to current students, faculty, and staff. Access: To access licensed resources, you must be able to authenticate yourself with your PennKey and password AND have an affiliation with Penn that permits access to licensed resources. Problems: If you cannot authenticate, you do not have access to licensed resources. Access is determined by your school or department at Penn. Please contact the Head of Circulation Services at vpcircdk@pobox.upenn.edu for additional help. Alumni: If you are a Penn alum, see Alumni Services. On Campus If you are on-campus and using a wireless network, you must use AirPennNet to access Library e-resources. Off Campus / EZproxy The Penn Libraries use EZproxy to allow Penn students, faculty, and staff to access subscription databases, ejournals, and ebooks from off-campus. To use EZproxy: You need to be able to authenticate yourself with your PennKey/password and be authorized to use licensed resources. Test your access through EZproxy now by following this link. When you login with your PennKey and password, the library proxy server provides a campus IP address to the requested resource so that access is enabled. You should only have to entered your information once per session. Your browser must accept cookies. The EZproxy cookie is not used to track your use, but only to let the proxy server monitor your authenticated status. This cookie will disappear when you exit your browser. If you share a computer, it is important that you exit the browser so the authentication cookie expires. See Optimal Browser Settings. Access from behind firewalls can be a problem. EZproxy uses IP ports in the range of 2048 - 13000. If you are accessing restricted resources from behind a firewall that does not allow access to these IP ports, you will NOT be able to use EZproxy. See also: Commonly Reported Problems and Solutions and Three Steps that Resolve Many Problems. << Previous: Use Policy for “Penn Only” Electronic Resources Next: PennText connects to full-text >> Last Updated: Apr 21, 2022 12:00 PM URL: https://guides.library.upenn.edu/usingeresources Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Tags: services Footer: Sitemap for navigation Social media Brief footer Penn Libraries Hours Library locations Spaces Workshops Give Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Questions or comments Report accessibility issues and get help 3420 Walnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206 215-898-7555 Campus Libraries map University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania