Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Search Library Resources My Account Navigate SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Find Borrow Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing Teaching Support Locations & Collections Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Spaces About About Us Join Us Connect With Us Get Help Ask Us Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support SMU Libraries Research Guides Research Lifecycle Campus Support Overview Search All Guides Search Research Lifecycle Campus Support: Overview Discovery and Networking Collaborative Spaces: Find many places to study inside of the SMU Libraries Graduate Student Lounge: Meet with your friends, make a cup of coffee, or store your items in a locker in the dedicated lounge for graduate students. Lecture Series: Find inspiration by attending one of the many speaker events offered across campus. Friends of SMU Libraries Tate Lecture Series Godbey Lecture Series TEDxSMU Simmons Lecture Series CIQ@SMU: The Bridge Builders lecture series Tower Center events Lyle Leadership at the Top series Gilbert Lecture series Literature Review Research Consultations: Schedule a one-on-one appointment in person or online with a librarian who specializes in your subject area and knows the best resources for your assignments. Research Guides: Save time by find the best databases for research in your subject area through these librarian-curated guides. Interlibrary Loan: Need something, but the Libraries do not own it? Send us an Interlibrary Loan request and we'll have it delivered here to campus either physically or electronically. Search Strategies: We offer workshops and provide guides to help you with developing better search techniques. Research Alerts: It's important to stay up-to-date in your field. Use a combination of "table of contents" alerts, search alerts and citation alerts to get the latest information on new publications Planning Your Research Citation Management: Use tools like RefWorks to organize your citations, generate bibliographies, and share with collaborators. Grant Resources: Locate opportunities to apply for funding. Sponsored Projects and Contracts: Office of Research Research Compliance: Learn more about regulations and protect your research subjects, including the Institutional Review Board process. Online Tutorials Research Using Data Library Workshops Active Research Digital Collections Special Collections Digital Humanities Research Institute at SMU: This 3-day institute during the summer quickly gets researchers up-to-speed on digital humanities research. Digital Scholarship Tools Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Research Technologies Publication and Presentation Writing Support Writing Center - Undergraduates Graduate Writing Center (Graduate students in Dedman College and the Lyle, Meadows, and Simmons Schools) Theological Writing Center (Graduate students in Perkins) Publishing Opportunities Author's Rights Copyright & Fair Use: ORCID and Scholarly Identity: Electronic Thesis and Dissertation: The ETD at SMU program provides students an open access publishing platform to get your research into the world. Media Production: Use the One-Button Studio in the Hamon Arts Library create a video or podcast. Preservation and Sharing SMU Scholar: Showcase your research and publications in SMU Scholar, the university’s searchable online collection of scholarly research. SMU Scholar makes your work discoverable through Google and tracks downloads. SMU Scholar is also an option for data storage meeting the requirements of grant funding agencies. Materials uploaded to SMU Scholar will be harvested into the university’s digital preservation system, Rosetta. Archiving: Discover options for storing your research data, from institutional resources like SMU Scholar and Box to discipline-specific repositories maintained by others. Omeka Support: Omeka is a web publishing platform for creating digital exhibits. Metadata Services: Organize your data by creating metadata with the help of librarians. Measuring Impact: Identify ways to measure and improve the impact of your research. Last Updated: Aug 20, 2021 5:19 PM URL: https://guides.smu.edu/researchlifecycle Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275