Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Research Support and Library Services Get it @ Yale Scan and Deliver Search this Guide Search Get it @ Yale: Scan and Deliver Get It @Yale Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Scan and Deliver Mail to Address Service Information for CT Libraries Contact Resource Sharing Quick View What is it? Delivers PDF copies of Yale materials within 48 business hours of request. What can I request? Most print materials held at Yale. How many requests can I submit? You may place as many requests as you wish at one time, but the Scan and Deliver service reserves the right to process one request per person per day, depending on staffing and overall request volume. How do I request items? Use the "request scan" link in the item's record in Orbis. Get Started! Search and Request in Orbis Find the item you need in Orbis, and use the request link to order Scan and Deliver. More detailed information about placing a request is available here. Warning of Copyright Restrictions WARNING OF COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS1 The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, U.S. Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of the copyright materials. Under certain conditions specified in the law, library and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be “used for any purpose other than in private study, scholarship, or research.” If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of “fair use,” that user may be liable for copyright infringement. The Yale University Library reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order, if, in its judgement fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. 1 37 C.F.R. §201.14 Chat with us! Get Help Help is available Monday to Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Email: askyalelibrary@yale.edu Call: (203) 432-1775 Text: (203) 826-2053 << Previous: Interlibrary Loan Next: Mail to Address Service >> Last Updated: Feb 9, 2022 8:16 AM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/getit Print Page Login to LibApps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility