Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Faculty of Arts & Sciences Libraries Research Guide for Korean Studies Home Search this Guide Search Research Guide for Korean Studies Home Full-text databasesToggle Dropdown History Literature Philosophy / Religion Catalogs, Indexes, Bibliographies, and Databases Journals and Magazines News and NewspapersToggle Dropdown Finding Korean newspapers at Harvard and beyond Maps Encyclopedias and Dictionaries Government, Law, and Statistics Audio / Visual Archival Collection Finding Aids New Databases / Trials Upcoming events Welcome! This guide provides an introduction to selected electronic resources for Korean studies. Most are available online, but some are digital products in other formats (e.g. CD-ROM) are also included. Please note that this is not intended to be a comprehensive list and that some sites may require subscription or registration. The majority of resources selected are primarily or entirely in Korean. For more information on scholarly resources for Korean studies available at Harvard, please contact Mikyung Kang, Librarian for the Korean Collection of Harvard-Yenching Library or the Harvard-Yenching Library reference desk. Research Guides for East Asian Studies The following guides may be helpful to students and scholars of East Asia: Research Guide for East Asian Studies by Reed Lowrie Last Updated Feb 22, 2022 346 views this year Research Guide for Chinese Studies by Xiao-He Ma Last Updated May 25, 2022 30593 views this year Research Guide for Japanese Studies by Kuniko McVey Last Updated May 23, 2022 2058 views this year Harvard-Yenching Library Archival Materials by Chiun Chau Last Updated Mar 7, 2022 628 views this year Research Guide for East Asian Studies Harvard Library Collections A number of libraries collect Korean language and Korea-related materials at Harvard. Harvard-Yenching Library: Extensive Korean-language collection as part of holdings on East Asia. Humanities and social sciences. Fine Arts Library: The Rübel Asiatic Research Collection holds materials in Korean and other East Asian languages on East Asian art. Fine Arts also collects Western-language works on East Asian art. Data and Government Information Collection at Lamont:Collects a wide range of publications from the US government, including translations of East Asian media, as well as foreign government, UN, census, and other materials. Harvard Law School Library: Foreign Law collection includes some materials in Korean, as well as writings in other languages on international law. Tozzer Library: Anthropological and ethnographic materials, including many on East and Inner Asia. Widener Library: Materials in Western languages on Asia, including Korea. Countway Library of Medicine: Medical and public-health resources, including some publications in Korean. Andover-Harvard Theological Library: Collects on religion and philosophy, including those of East Asia, in Western languages. Also holds a number of missionary publications and papers. Korean Studies at Harvard The following institutes and departments sponsor Korea-related events and courses: Korea Institute Asia Center Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations Harvard Art Museums -- Korean Art Collection Committee on Regional Studies -- East Asia Harvard East Asia Society Romanization Although it is increasingly possible to search for materials in library catalogs, bibliographies, and of course online using East Asian scripts, knowledge of romanization is still very helpful. For example, romanized searches in library catalogs may allow you to retrieve materials in characters, Korean alphabet (han'gul), and Western-languages, or let you search for items from older bibliographies which often lack East Asian scripts. In the case of Korean, the romanization system widely used by libraries in the United States (McCune-Reischauer) differs from the various systems employed at different times by Korean governments. It may also differ from the system taught in Korean language classes. The following links provide information about romanization of Korean. Korean McCune-Reischauer Romanization Online tool converting hangul to McCune-Reischauer romanization. Created by Korean Studies librarians in North America. LC (Library of Congress) and ALA (American Library Association) Romanization Table for Korean Detailed explanation of the guidelines that many American libraries use to romanize Korean works for cataloguing purposes. Next: Full-text databases >> Last Updated: May 24, 2022 12:17 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/c.php?g=310159 Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Asian Studies, Regional & Cultural Studies Tags: how_to korean korea korean_studies Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy