Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Libraries Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Research Support Workshops Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving Oregon State University LibGuides Specialized Resources *Government Information: Federal General Information Overview Search this Guide Search *Government Information: Federal Finding Federal government information and resources, both current and historical, including Census and statistical resources. General Information Overview Government Documents Services at OSU Valley Library Government Information Locations in the Valley Library Govinfo.gov Locators and Finding Aids Find Your Legislators Citing Government Documents Depository Library Information Help with Government Information Find Articles and Reports Federal Branches & Agencies Federal Register and Code of Federal Regulations Researching Congress Congressional Hearings Historical Congressional Research Government Statistics National Statistics Federal Depositories The Valley Library at OSU is a congressionally designated depository for U.S. Government documents. Public access to the government documents collection is guaranteed by public law. (Title 44 United States Code) See Depository Library Information for details about the Federal Depository Library Program and our place in it. Other Government Information Guides *Government Information: International by Diana Castillo Last Updated Apr 19, 2021 125 views this year *Government Information: Oregon by Diana Castillo Last Updated Apr 18, 2021 19 views this year *Law by Diana Castillo Last Updated Dec 16, 2021 141 views this year Government Documents Services at OSU Valley Library Reference Service Help with searching and finding government documents is available at the Information Desk on the main floor of The Valley Library. Help via chat, e-mail, text, and phone, as well as in person, is available -- see Ask Us Borrowing Documents While many documents are available online, the OSU Libraries also has a large collection of circulating documents in physical formats. Many are located on the 3rd floor; others are cataloged and shelved within the library stacks. Be sure to check the online record in 1Search to find out what format your document is (paper, microfiche, CD/DVD, online etc.) and the physical location of the document. The table below provides location information and circulation status for documents: Location of government documents Format Location Circulate? print / SuDoc number 3rd floor Documents section yes print / LC call numbers in stacks with other materials with LC call numbers yes microfiche 3rd floor microfiche cases no CD-ROM/ DVD-ROM 3rd floor CD cases (near Fiche readers) most do maps 3rd floor maps cases yes Government Information Locations in the Valley Library Federal and State documents at the OSU Valley Library can be found in a variety of places. Records for all of them are included in 1Search searches. For documents in physical formats, it is essential to note both call number and location from the record. The most recent documents are often online only, and can be located with a search in 1Search; links to these documents are found in the record. Many of our tangible (physical) documents are given a classification number in the Library of Congress (LC) system and located in the regular book stacks with our other items, or the LC section of the microfiche cabinets. Others are classified in Superintendent of Documents (SuDoc) classification (or OrDocs in the case of Oregon documents) and are found in the 3rd floor document collections on shelves, in CD/DVD cabinets, or in microfiche cabinets. What is a SuDoc number? Federal documents not classified by Valley Library in the standard Library of Congress (LC) classification system are classified in SuDoc. This is a system that arranges publications by the agency that produced them, NOT by subject like LC. At the Valley Library, these are all located on the 3rd floor. Govinfo.gov GOVINFO is the primary public access to Government information submitted by Congress and Federal agencies. Featured collections include the Code of Federal Regulations; United States Code; Federal Register; Congressional Bills, Documents, Hearings and Reports; Congressional Record; Compilation of Presidential Documents; Economic Indicators; Public and Private Laws. Locators and Finding Aids 1Search Access to online documents and for finding location of others (in paper, microfiche, CD/DVD, or map; and at OSU Libraries or our Summit partner libraries) can be obtained through the library search box, 1Search. SuDoc and OrDoc numbers can be searched as keywords. ------------------------------------------------- Catalog of U.S. Government Publications (CGP) The CGP is the finding tool for federal publications that includes descriptive records for historical and current publications and provides direct links to those that are available online. Users can search by authoring agency, title, subject, and general key word, or click on "Advanced Search" for more options. ------------------------------------------------- Checklist of United States Public Documents, 1789-1909 A digitization of a standard historical reference work. Lists Agency and Congressional documents, including Serial Set. ------------------------------------------------- Congress.gov The official source for federal legislative information. It replaces the nearly 20-year-old THOMAS.gov site with a system that includes platform mobility, comprehensive information retrieval and user-friendly presentation. ------------------------------------------------- CyberCemetary Provides permanent public access to the Web sites and publications of defunct U.S. government agencies and commissions. Very useful when presidential administrations change. A partnership between the University of North Texas Libraries and GPO. ------------------------------------------------- Digitization Projects Registry - Archived Sunsetted in 2018, the Digitization Projects Registry was a collaborative effort to digitize older documents from the Federal Depository Library Project. OSU contributed the U.S. Forest Service Research Legacy. ------------------------------------------------- DTIC Online Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) serves the DoD community as the largest central resource for DoD and government-funded scientific, technical, engineering, and business related information available (full text available) ------------------------------------------------- GovSpeak: A Guide to U.S. Government Acronyms & Abbreviations From UC San Diego, the most thorough site for locating government acronyms. The site not only lists the acronyms of hundreds of government departments, agencies and programs, it also links to their websites. ------------------------------------------------- United States Government Manual (XML version) Official handbook of the Federal Government. Provides comprehensive information on the agencies of the legislative, judicial, and executive branches, as well as quasi-official agencies, boards, commissions, and committees. This page contains copies of the Manual since 1995 in XML or PDF format. ------------------------------------------------- United States Government Manual (Online) Searchable online version of the above. Find Your Legislators U.S. Senate Senator Ron Wyden (D) Senator Jeff Merkley (D) U.S. House of Representatives District 01 Suzanne Bonamici (D) District 02 Greg Walden (R) District 03 Earl Blumenauer (D) District 04 Peter A. DeFazio (D) District 05 Kurt Schrader (D) Oregon Congressional Districts (map from the Oregon Blue Book) State Senators & Representatives: Find your local senator or representative via the interactive Legislator Lookup Citing Government Documents Government documents can be confusing to cite in text or bibliographies, as there are some differences between them and other sources. The number and kinds of authors (personal authors, agencies, or both) can make things complicated; so can the format of the document—PDF articles, websites, databases, microfiche, and paper publications have subtly different requirements. Other than standard reports, there are special formats such as Census, Serial Set, Hearings, and Congressional Bills, with unique aspects. Some basic stuff: 1. If a personal author is named, they should be given credit; often there isn’t any author named and the agency is treated as the author. 2. If the issuing agency is also the publisher, you may eliminate the publisher name in the entry. 3. Internet-original publications may not have “publisher” information and you can substitute the URL in its place (usually a good idea to include the access date also). 4. Abbreviate United States to U.S. in the agency name. 5. Include the report number and/or SuDoc classification number if there is one. These can be very helpful for readers looking for the document. The style guide for whatever style you’re using (APA, MLA, Chicago, etc.) ought to have some guidance for citing government documents. There is also a book, The Complete Guide to Citing Government Information Resources (3rd ed.), call number J9.5 .G37 2002. For basic help online, the University of Delaware Library has a Guide you can consult, at http://guides.lib.udel.edu/c.php?g=85404&p=548852 Next: Depository Library Information >> Last Updated: Apr 11, 2022 3:18 PM URL: https://guides.library.oregonstate.edu/subject-guide/286-Government-Information Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Government Information & Law Tags: government documents, statistics This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial 4.0 International License. | Details of our policy Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 Phone: 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2020 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter In the Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Collaborative Learning Center Student Multimedia Services Northwest Art Exhibit Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library Federal Depository Library Program