Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Design - Frances Loeb Library Special Collections: Le Corbusier Research Collection at the Frances Loeb Library Le Corbusier Research Collection Special Collections: Le Corbusier Research Collection at the Frances Loeb Library The Le Corbusier Research Collection at the Frances Loeb Library’s Special Collections includes primarily printed materials by and about Le Corbusier, including first editions to current day publications. Table of Contents Le Corbusier Research Collection A Bibliography Need Help? Be in Touch. Ask a Design Librarian Call 617-495-9163 Research Consultations Library Hours Le Corbusier Research Collection Collections refer to curated groups of objects or materials that have a focused interest and quality, and that have been brought together by an individual or organization. The Le Corbusier Research Collection is one of such collections. The Le Corbusier Research Collection at the Harvard Graduate School of Design is held in the Frances Loeb Library's Special Collections. The collection was established when the library was dedicated in 1972, and consists primarily of printed materials by and about Le Corbusier (1887-1965). In addition, the library includes original materials by Le Corbusier in a number of archival collections, a group of paintings and drawings in a variety of media, two tapestries, and an unpublished sketchbook. The collection is the focus of continued and ongoing acquisition and collection development, and currently holds over 1100 titles (including re-publications, translations, and new editions). This is a browsing collection. Requests can also be submitted in advance by finding the item in HOLLIS and submitting a request through HOLLIS Special Request. Every item in the Rare Book Collection is indexed in HOLLIS. Plan Your Research Visit Information about accessing the Frances Loeb Library Special Collections can be found in our Plan Your Research Visit guide. Next: A Bibliography >> Last Updated: Feb 9, 2022 10:33 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/gsd/le_corbusier Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Architecture, Architecture & Design, Landscape Architecture, Urban Planning Tags: 20th century, GSD, urban design Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy