CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Columbia University Archives: Home Home Alumni Search Faculty Search Course DescriptionsToggle Dropdown Online Bulletins Master's Essays & Dissertations PhotographsToggle Dropdown Individuals Student Life Events Buildings & Grounds Scanned Images Buildings & Grounds Columbia History & TraditionsToggle Dropdown 1968 Crisis 49th Street Campus Athletics Coeducation at Columbia Columbia and the Civil War Core Curriculum King's College LGBT Student Groups Manhattan Project Student Life Varsity Show WKCR Notable ColumbiansToggle Dropdown University Presidents Schools & Departments University Archives Columbia University Archives Rare Book & Manuscript Library Butler Library, 6th Floor 535 West 114th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 Fax: (212) 854-1365 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map | Hours | Directions University Archivist Related Collections Barnard College The Barnard Archives and Special Collections serves as the final repository for the historical records of Barnard College, from its founding in 1889 to the present day. For more information, please contact archives@barnard.edu. Health Sciences Library The Archives and Special Collections at the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library of Columbia University can help you find information about the schools of the Medical Center: College of Physicians & Surgeons, School of Nursing, College of Dental Medicine (formerly the School of Dental & Oral Surgery), Mailman School of Public Health, and the College of Pharmaceutical Sciences. For more information, please contact hslarchives@columbia.edu. Welcome to the University Archives Research Guides Research Guides These Research Guides were put together to help you take advantage of the Columbia University Archives holdings. For each type of search, you will find the most popular resources available and how to access them: some online and some which are non-circulating and are available only at the Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) reading room. These lists are not exhaustive; these are only the "top" or "most frequently consulted" resources. Each guide covers a different research area: Alumni, former students, graduates and non-graduates Faculty members, adjuncts, instructors, visiting professors Course descriptions, course numbers, instructors, credits, prerequisites Master's essays, MFA theses, PhD dissertations Photographs of people, events, and buildings and campus features Building and grounds, plans, maps, history of the various campuses Columbia history and traditions: 1968 crisis 49th Street campus, 1857-1897 Athletics Coeducation Columbia and the Civil War Core curriculum King's College, the early days of Columbia LGBT student groups Manhattan project Student life Varsity Show WKCR radio station Notable Columbians, resources for learning about such Columbians as Bhimrao Ambedkar, Franz Boas, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, V.K. Wellington Koo, Seth Low, C.S. Wu and the University Presidents. Schools and Departments In order to use the University Archives collections at the Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML), visitors are required to register their own Special Collections Research Account before their visit and to validate the account in person with government-issued photo identification or Columbia ID card. Once you have created your Special Collections Research Account, you will be able to request the materials directly from the finding aid or from the CLIO online library catalog record. For more information on how to access our collections, check out our Research & Access website. For additional resources or other topics you would like to be addressed here, please contact uarchives@columbia.edu. About the image Low Memorial Library exterior. (Scan #0664) Historical Photograph Collection, University Archives, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University Libraries. Next: Alumni Search >> Last Updated: May 24, 2022 1:25 PM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/uarchives Login to LibApps. Subjects: Archives, Special Collections, & Rare Books, Columbia University History, New York City, Research Help & Library Services Tags: archives, Columbia University CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.