Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Design - Frances Loeb Library Special Collections: Plan Your Research Visit Reading Room Information Special Collections: Plan Your Research Visit Information on how to request and view Special Collections materials in the Frances Loeb Library Special Collections Reading Room at the GSD. Table of Contents Reading Room Information Visiting Guidelines Hours Availability of Materials HOLLIS Special Request Discover & Request Collections Browsing Collections When You Arrive Frances Loeb Library Special Collections Guides Other Resources Contact Us Copy Requests Request an Instruction Session Visiting Guidelines The Frances Loeb Library Special Collections Reading Room is open. Researchers interested in viewing items from the rare book, archival, or visual collections must request materials in advance of an anticipated visit. After a request is received and processed, a librarian will contact the researcher with information on how to schedule an appointment. Please see the information below for instructions on setting up a reading room account (required for all visitors), how to place requests, and scheduling appointments for our browsing collections. The GSD is open to the public. Before entering the Frances Loeb Library, non-Harvard visitors must check-in with GSD Security at Gund Hall’s Quincy Street entrance. As outlined in the GSD's Reopening Guidelines, visitors are required to provide proof of vaccination (including a booster shot) and photo ID. Non-HUID holding visitors are encouraged to arrive to Gund Hall 15 minutes before scheduled Special Collections Reading Room appointment to ensure time for registration upon Gund Hall entry. Early arrivals to the Special Collections Reading Room cannot be accommodated. Hours Monday to Friday from 11 AM to 4:30 PM, appointments accepted. For holiday other closures, please expand “Show Detailed Hours” on the Frances Loeb Library’s hours page. Availability of Materials Many of our collections are stored off-site. Items may take 1-3 business days to process before being available for your visit. HOLLIS Special Request All researchers are required to have a HOLLIS Special Request account. Harvard affiliates should sign in using their HarvardKey. First-time users will be asked to create an account.   Discover & Request Collections For items located in Frances Loeb Library Finding Aids Identify the archival collection and containers of the items you would like to review in HOLLIS for Archival Discovery and request them by selecting “Add to Request List” button. Users will be directed to HOLLIS Special Request. Special Collections staff will email researchers when items are available in the reading room, after which you may book an appointment for your visit. For items in HOLLIS Rare books, theses, images, manuscripts, video, printed materials, and some archival collections located in the HOLLIS catalog have embedded “Request to Copy or Visit” links that will generate your request in HOLLIS Special Request.  For some items, you may be required to fill out the HOLLIS Special Request form manually.  Special Collections staff will email researchers when items are available in the reading room, after which you may book an appointment for your visit. For the Le Corbusier Research Collection The Le Corbusier Research Collection is available for browsing. Researchers need a HOLLIS Special Request account and an appointment. Le Corbusier Research Collection items are also discoverable through HOLLIS. For the GSD Materials Collection The GSD Materials Collection is available for browsing in-person and discoverable through Material Order SEARCH. Browsing Collections Both the Le Corbusier Research Collection and GSD Materials Collection are available for browsing in-person. Researchers need a HOLLIS Special Request account and an appointment. When You Arrive At Special Collections, reading room users are required to check in upon arrival and show one form of photo identification. Researchers are welcome to bring pencils, laptops, tablets, phones (in silent mode), digital cameras, and other materials to assist in their research. Researchers are asked to store items not permitted in the reading room, such as food and drink, bags, outerwear, and writing instruments other than pencils. Handling guidelines must be conscientiously followed in order to preserve library material for future use. Library staff are always available to provide guidance. Frances Loeb Library Special Collections Guides Archival Collections at the Frances Loeb Library Le Corbusier Research Collection at the Frances Loeb Library Materials Collection at the Frances Loeb Library Rare Book Collection at the Frances Loeb Library  Theses at the Frances Loeb Library Visual Collections at the Frances Loeb Library Other Resources Library Guide: HOLLIS Special Request Overview on how to set up and manage your HOLLIS Special Request account. Library Guide: HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Overview of HOLLIS for Archival Discovery and instructions on how to browse repositories and request materials to view in the reading room. All researchers should review this guide for the Fall Semester for updates on this process. Contact Us If you have questions about a collection or if you want to inquire about obtaining reproductions of items or other services, please contact us through Ask a Design Librarian. Next: Copy Requests >> Last Updated: May 23, 2022 9:38 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/SCplanyourvisit Print Page Login to LibApps Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy