Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Design - Frances Loeb Library Geospatial and Statistical Data Resources Start your data research Geospatial and Statistical Data Resources Table of Contents Start your data research GSD Library Mapping Hours Geospatial Data Portals Quick Links GIS at Harvard GIS Software for GSD students GIS Workshops and Common GIS Operations Geospatial Data by Geographic Region Geospatial Data by Type Statistics Resources Citing Your Data Web Mapping Basics Library Books on GIS & Data GSD Library Mapping Hours GSD Mapping Assistants (mapping@gsd.harvard.edu) provide regular office hours during the semester. They assist with technical GIS questions and also field basic data questions. Spring Semester 2022 consultations are by default virtual. In-person consultations may be possible depending on availability/circumstances. Schedule Appointment with a Mapping Assistant For all data inquiries, including the purchasing of new datasets, contact: Ask a Design Librarian. Geospatial Data Portals Quick Links Harvard Geospatial Library Harvard's main geospatial data portal. Contains vector and raster data, including scanned and georeferenced paper maps! Data.gov The US government provides open access to thousands of geospatial datasets. SimplyAnalytics (formerly SimplyMap) (census data from 2000 and 2010, as well as market and business data). Sign up with your Harvard email! Social Explorer: Demographic Data (historical - present) Access both historical and current demographic data. Includes census data and data from the American Community Survey. ** Make sure to check the boxes "Output ALL geographic identifiers" and "Output DBF friendly column names" on Social Explorer's download page. Click on the csv-link to download the file, and on the Data Dictionary link to download the data dictionary Boston Open Data Portal MA: MassGIS GIS data for the state of Massachusetts USGS Earth Explorer Access a variety of data: satellite images, lidar, orthophotos, DEMs, etc.! SIGN UP for a FREE account to download data! more... less... Create a log in first, it's free! GIS at Harvard The Center for Geographic Analysis (CGA) at Harvard has put together a comprehensive list of links to state, national and international data resources. Look at resources from this list. Next: GIS Software for GSD students >> Last Updated: Mar 2, 2022 1:41 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/gsd/GIS Print Page Login to LibApps Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy