Skip to Main Content For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Research Guides System Transition My Favorites--Saved Records Permalinks Saved Queries & Alerts Bookmark UW Libraries Search Home Start Your Research Research Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides UW Libraries UW Libraries Search System Upgrade June 2022 System Transition UW Libraries Search System Upgrade June 2022: System Transition Instructions on saving individual records, saved searches, and saved queries in preparation for transitioning to the upgraded UW Libraries Search system. UW Libraries Search System Transition Our vendor has scheduled an upgrade to the UW Libraries Search catalog, for June 13th, 2022. The catalog will be offline the entire day on June 13th. Some changes will launch with the initial upgrade and others will come slowly over the next year. New features available upon June upgrade New records will populate into the catalog much more quickly Item availability windows will load faster The Search-Inside feature will allow users to search for articles within journal titles The Journals Browse feature will incorporate both print and electronic materials Action is required to preserve your saved data in UW Libraries Search Although many of the same features will be available in the new system, permalinks and most of your saved data will not be migrated over automatically, as outlined below. You must take steps to capture your saved data before June 13 so that you can re-enter them into your account in the new system. This guide provides instructions to save your impacted data. Items in My Favorites > Saved Records will be migrated automatically for each account. No action is required. If you are using Permalinks for items in the catalog, these links will not redirect you to the upgraded system. We suggest you save individual items to the My Favorites menu for easy access post-upgrade. For example: if you have items linked from the catalog in Canvas these will need to be changed. Items in My Favorites > Saved Searches and Search Alerts will not be migrated. Search alerts will need to be turned off prior to the upgrade. If you wish to keep your saved searches, please copy them outside of the catalog by June 12, 2022, so that you can re-enter them after the upgrade. If you don’t wish to preserve your saved queries, no action is necessary. Ensure your bookmarks to UW Libraries Search use this URL: https://search.lib.uw.edu/ Next: My Favorites--Saved Records >> Last Updated: May 10, 2022 3:23 PM URL: https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/search_transition Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.