CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Political Science: Getting Started Getting Started Find Books Find Journal Articles Find Data & Statistics Find Polls & Surveys Find News Sources Find U.S. Government Information Find Country & Regional Information Find Conference Proceedings Find Biographical Sources Citing Sources Library Getting Started Encyclopedia of Politics: The Left and the Right General Editor Rodney P. Carlisle Sage Publications, c2005. Encyclopedia of Political Theory Provides concise, to-the-point definitions of key concepts, ideas, schools, and figures. Coverage includes: Enlightenment, Modern Theory, Constitutionalism, Liberalism, Empirical Theory, and Comparative Political Thought. Encyclopedia of the American Constitution. 6 vols. Call Number: KF4548 .E53 1986 International Encyclopedia of Civil Society Edited by Helmut Anheier Springer, 2009 The Oxford Handbook of Comparative Politics Edited by Carles Boix Oxford University Press, 2009 The Oxford Handbook of Political Theory Oxford University Press, 2006. JA71 .O84 2006g Oxford Handbooks: Philosophy Complete searchable texts of the Oxford handbooks in philosophy. The handbooks offer both thorough introductions to topics in the discipline, and a useful reference resource for scholars and advanced students. Oxford Handbooks: Political Science Complete searchable texts of the Oxford handbooks in political Science. The handbooks offer both thorough introductions to topics in the discipline, and a useful reference resource for scholars and advanced students. The Princeton Encyclopedia of American Political History Edited by Michael Kazin Princeton University Press, c2010. The SAGE Handbook Research Methods overage of contemporary and developing Internet and online social research methods, spanning both quantitative and qualitative research applications. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy Provides an alphabetical index to the publication's contents, as well as a site search engine. Contains information on individual philosophers and their beliefs. Next: Find Books >> Last Updated: Dec 10, 2021 2:23 PM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/polisci Login to LibApps. Subjects: Social Sciences CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.