Skip to Main Content For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Research Guides Home Databases A-Z Companies Industries Market Research Finance Accounting International Data & StatisticsToggle Dropdown Research Data Sets News & Articles Historic BusinessToggle Dropdown Annual Reports Historic Stock Prices Newspapers & Articles Nonprofits Business Diversity Citing Business Information Case StudiesToggle Dropdown Harvard Business Publishing Cannabis Home Start Your Research Research Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides UW Libraries Business Wall Street Journal Business: Wall Street Journal Wall Street Journal access In a pilot program through 2022, UW students, faculty, and staff may create an account to access the Wall Street Journal on WSJ.com. Continued access beyond 2022 will depend on usage and budget opportunities. Create a UW WSJ account This link opens in a new window This link opens in a new window You must use your UW email address. Global Newsstream This link opens in a new window The Wall Street Journal is also available in text-only format (no photos or graphics) in this newspaper database. No registration required. Personalized access Acccess WSJ content on desktop, tablet, mobile, the WSJ app, and WSJ podcasts. Student-centered content Customized content for students in The WSJ Student Hub, WSJ Money (personal finance), and WSJ Jobs (career exploration). Events Connections and conversations with WSJ reporters and editors, leaders and innovators, and students and faculty. Privacy Notes When you create a WSJ.com, your personal information is subject to use by publisher Dow Jones as described below. How/when personal data is collected: Information required when you sign up for an account or create a profile; use an interactive feature (such as chat, chat bot or article sharing options); participate in a community forum. Data collected through third parties: If you access through a social media service, information collected may include your social media user ID and/or user name, profile picture, email address, demographic data, your interests, and your activities on other websites. Other data collected through third party analytics providers, ad networks, and advertisers: Dow Jones can track your online activities over time and across third party websites, apps and devices. Data may include your name, contact information, your transactions, purchase history, or relationships with various product and service providers, and use of certain applications. Other data that may be collected: Password, birthday, education or graduation year, occupation, financial information (i.e. income, investments, portfolio transactions and value), live event accommodations, and interests. Last Updated: May 24, 2022 5:11 PM URL: https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/business Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Subjects: Business University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.