Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Geographic Information Systems Geographic Information Systems at Yale Getting Started with GIS Search this Guide Search Geographic Information Systems at Yale: Getting Started with GIS Geographic Information Systems at Yale University encompasses a range of spatial applications and services. GIS is used by many disciplines at Yale University. Getting Started with GIS Yale GIS Accelerator GIS Consultations GIS Software Installation The Yale GIS Workshops Geocoding Resources Community Mapping Resources Yale GIS FAQs Remote Sensing Collecting Field Data Online Mapping Resources GISday Conference at Yale Yale GIS Accelerator Marx Science and Social Science Library is pleased to announce the offering of the Yale GIS Accelerator Spring 2022, a one-week-long GIS instruction program for Yale affiliates who need to learn and integrate GIS into their projects but find it difficult to register for a semester-long GIS course. MAY 9-13, 2022 | Read all the details. GIS Support Services at Yale University GIS is used for many purposes that range from calculating space, analyzing spatial relationships, patterns or trends, to cartography, visualization, and site management. At Yale, researchers from all disciplines embark in projects that require geospatial technologies to answer important questions and support learning and collaborative research initiatives. The Marx Science and Social Science Library (Marx Library) GIS Services at Yale offer a suite of services and support for all geospatial endeavors on campus and while conducting fieldwork. Virtual GIS Training Yale members have the option to join the Esri e-Learning platform to access hundreds of GIS virtual training at no cost. Access and setup, if you have not done so, your Yale University ArcGIS Online Account. Once you log in, please look for your name on the top right corner. Click the drop-down menu, you should be able to find "Training" Once you get access to the Esri e-Learning platform, you may browse their course catalog Note: Most of the instructor-led training sessions require a fee, regardless of the site license. However, you might receive a discounted price if you decide to enroll any. GIS Consultations Our GIS team includes a group of enthusiastic consultants who can work with you to integrate GIS into your various projects and learning activities. Some of the aspects that you can discuss during your consultation are: GIS Support Services for all disciplines, assisting from individual research to long-term team project planning Strategies to plan your spatiotemporal work ahead An overview of the tools and techniques used to map raster and vector datasets, using both open source and Esri software Complex spatiotemporal data analyses and modeling RESERVE A VIRTUAL GIS CONSULTATION | MEET THE GIS CONSULTANTS MIRIAM OLIVARES | YICHEN YANG | JILL KELLY, Ph.D. (YSPH Collaborator) MyApps Yale GIS: Remote Access to GIS Desktop June 01, 2020 The ITS Public Computing group has worked tirelessly, and now Yale students and faculty can access GIS software, via MyApps Yale GIS, including Esri ArcGIS for Desktop (ArcMap), ArcGIS Pro, QGIS, Google Earth Pro, and GeoDa. MyApps Yale GIS is a comprehensive desktop and app virtualization service that provides access to a Windows-based environment containing Yale licensed software from both personal and Yale-owned devices. Access to MyApps Yale GIS service will use multi-factor authentication (MFA) via DUO. Starting June 01, 2020, the MyApps at Yale Citrix environment is no longer be available. This change does not apply to MyApps at YNHHS. It offers a full Windows 10 desktop. The desktop includes Yale licensed software that is currently available in the Public Clusters (for students) or software specific to departmental needs. ACCESS To access the new environment, please download the remote desktop software and follow the Getting Started Guide. Access to the new MyApps Yale GIS environment is also available through the web. Your existing Yale email address and NetID password will provide access to the system. Note: All students with an active Yale email address are licensed to access the MyApps Yale GIS service via their personal devices. FAQs: Will I be able to save personal files on the virtual desktop? The virtual desktop allows access to software available on the Public Clusters (students), or for specific use by teams or departments at Yale. Personal files should only be saved to a cloud drive, such as OneDrive, or to a network share. Will I be able to add software to the virtual desktop? You can customize your view of the virtual desktop, but software downloads/additions are not permitted. If you or your group have a specific need for software on the virtual desktop, please reach out to your professor, proctor, or manager. Need help? For additional assistance, please contact the ITS Help Desk at 203-432-9000 or visit our website to view answers to trending questions, search how-to articles, start a chat, or report a problem. You may also contact your local IT support provider. Public Computer Labs with GIS Software Yale University offers hundreds of public computers that are located throughout campus and are intended for use by members of the Yale community. These computers have a common software image to provide ample access to academic programs and software needed for classes. Regarding GIS software, this is not a complete list but includes locations where the GIS software has been installed. You may find one or a combination of the Esri ArcGIS Desktop (ArcMap) and ArcGIS Pro, Google Earth Pro, and/or QGIS: SCIENCE HILL Marx Science and Social Science Library (Marx Library) | 219 Prospect Street | Directions Computer Lab at the School of Forestry & Environmental Studies | Sage Hall 3rd Floor, Room 39 | 205 Prospect Street | Map HILLHOUSE Dunham Laboratory, Room 120 | 10 Hillhouse Avenue | Map 17 Hillhouse, Room 07 and room 111 | Map Rosenkranz, Room 01 | 115 Prospect Street | Map CENTRAL CAMPUS Sterling Memorial Library | 120 High Street | Map public computers located at the Nave Franke Family Digital Humanities Laboratory | Franke Room Irving S. Gilmore Music Library MEDICAL SCHOOL Harvey Cushing / John Hay Whitney Medical Library at the Sterling Hall of Medicine | 333 Cedar Street | Map Residential Colleges Citrix Computers GIS and Maps Contacts GIS INQUIRIES For assistance with GIS data or software, please contact the GIS team at the Marx Library at gishelp@yale.edu. MAP INQUIRIES For assistance with scanned or paper maps from the Map Collection, please contact mapsreference@mailman.yale.edu. Sign up for the Yale GIS-L Mailing List! Stay informed about GIS-related events, announcements, and software issues. We use this list to keep the Yale GIS User Community informed about everything from GIS workshops to software license maintenance events. GIS-L Listserv Sign-up Yale University's GIS-L list is primarily intended for communication between the University's GIS user community and support staff. Discussion is unmoderated but monitored. Please note that many resources discussed and announced on the list are available to Yale University faculty, staff, and students, only. If you are a Yale affiliate, we ask that you use your yale.edu email address for subscription and correspondence on the list. Next: Yale GIS Accelerator >> Last Updated: May 17, 2022 3:58 PM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/GIS Print Page Login to LibApps Tags: geodatabases, geographic information systems, gis, latitude, longitude, maps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility