Skip to Main Content For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Research Guides Home Start Your Research Research Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides UW Libraries Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Home Encyclopedias & Dictionaries: Home Encyclopedias: Collections For information on countries or cities including current statistical data see the Country & City Info guide. Daily Life Through History This link opens in a new window Elgaronline This link opens in a new window Gale Ebooks This link opens in a new window Grove Music Online This link opens in a new window Oxford African American Studies Center This link opens in a new window Oxford Art Online This link opens in a new window Oxford Handbooks Online This link opens in a new window Oxford Reference Online This link opens in a new window Oxford Research Encyclopedias This link opens in a new window Pop Culture Universe This link opens in a new window Sage Reference Online This link opens in a new window SAGE Research Methods Online (SRM) This link opens in a new window Encyclopedias: Biographical Additional biographical sources can be found on the Biography guide. American National Biography This link opens in a new window Gale in Context: Biography This link opens in a new window Deutsche Biographie Dictionary of Canadian Biography Gale Literature Resource Center This link opens in a new window Oxford Dictionary of National Biography This link opens in a new window Dictionaries: English Oxford English Dictionary (OED) This link opens in a new window Dictionary of American Regional English (DARE) This link opens in a new window Dictionaries: Collections The following are collections of dictionaries, some covering multiple languages, others covering one language. Oxford Dictionaries This link opens in a new window Oxford Reference: Bilingual Dictionaries This link opens in a new window Datenbank-Paket Duden This link opens in a new window Digital Dictionaries of South Asia Japan knowledge ジャパンナレッジ This link opens in a new window SEALANG Library Dictionaries: Languages For additional dictionaries check the research guides for various area studies and languages such as Scandinavian Studies, Near East and Italian Studies. Also use UW Libraries Search to find print and online dictionaries. Arabic-English Lexicon (William Lane) Diccionario de la lengua española Multitran Russian-English Online Dictionary Naver Korean Dictionary Le Trésor de la Langue Française informatisé (TLFi) el-Trezoro This link opens in a new window Tuttle concise Chinese dictionary : Chinese-English : English-Chinese This link opens in a new window Finding Additional Encyclopedias & Dictionaries To find additional encyclopedias and dictionaries, both print and online, use UW Libraries Search. Advanced Search | FAQ | Known Issues Search Examples Search for your broad topic and add the term encyclopedias. For example: global warming encyclopedias vietnam war encyclopedias shakespeare encyclopedias For language dictionaries, search for the language and add the term dictionaries. For example: navajo language dictionaries american sign language dictionaries ladino language dictionaries english (for a Ladino to English dictionary) Other options for identifying encyclopedias and dictionaries: See our research guides for background sources in the subject area. Ask us! Last Updated: May 20, 2022 3:23 PM URL: https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/encydict Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.