Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Toggle navigation MENU Hours Ask a Librarian HLS Harvard Libraries Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Law School Library Journal Subcite Quick Tips Introduction Search this Group Search Journal Subcite Quick Tips Information and links for finding resources in print and PDF. Introduction Primary Sources Secondary Sources Citations Getting Help Introduction Getting Started This guide is meant to offer quickie links to some of the more common subciting materials, with a focus on US primary laws. This is not an exhaustive list, and you may want to contact your journal liaison or the Reference Desk for additional help. You can also contact your library Journal Liaison. Plan your Subcite When going through an article, start by sorting out what should be easy to find from that which will be more challenging and time consuming. For example, most US law review articles are available on HeinOnline. Law review articles are relatively fast and simple. In contrast, books can often be at other Harvard libraries, ordered from the Harvard Depository, or at another university through Borrow Direct. Some materials may need to be borrowed through Interlibrary Loan (ILL), which can take several weeks. Check out the library policy for services to journals. Check out additional journal information for students. Scanners & Copiers The Library has five, do-it-yourself scanning stations. One is located in the Microforms Room on the 2nd floor, three are located near the Reference Room, and one is located at the north end of the Reading Room. The stations have been configured for easy use, and straightforward instructions are attached to each of their control kiosks. The Ricoh mutifunction machines located throughout the library can also scan. Scanning is absolutely free! HeinOnline Subciting often involves finding materials in their "original" form - for materials online, this means finding .pdf versions of materials as they would otherwise appear in an official print source. One of the best resources for getting sources as they appear in print is HeinOnline. Throughout this guide are links to HeinOnline for sources including: Law Journal Library U.S. Congressional Documents U.S. Federal Compiled Legislative Histories U.S. Statutes at Large U.S. Code Session Laws Library U.S. Supreme Court Library Code of Federal Regulation Federal Register English Reporter Israel Law Reports United Nations Law Collection World Constitutions Primary Sources Legislative & Congressional Docs United States Code (U.S.C.) U.S.C. is available in print in the HLS Library reading room (4th floor), and in the reference room [KF62] United States Constitution is found in the advance pages of Title 1 of the U.S.C. NOTE: Latest print edition for the U.S. Code is 2012. Sections must be updated using the Supplements (and relevant Code section) HeinOnline United States Code more... less... The HeinOnline United States Code collection provides complete historical coverage of the U.S. Code from the initial 1925-1926 edition to the most current edition. The U.S. Code is the official consolidation and codification by subject matter of the general and permanent laws of the United States. A new edition of the U.S. Code is published every six years with annual cumulative supplements published in each of the five intervening years.####HeinOnline provides access to the complete contents of each U.S. Code volume. Each page is represented in both high quality image and OCR text formats. As a cost saving measure, HeinOnline does not review the OCR scanned text for errors. U.S. Code (U.S. House of Representatives) Free searchable version of the U.S. Code prepared by the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the U.S. House of Representatives State Codes Available in print on the 4th floor of the library (south end) in alphabetical order Superseded editions are available on microfiche.. Check HOLLIS for availability. Microfilm is stored offsite. Contact access@law.harvard.edu to request materials. Some superseded state statutes are available from Hein. Note: Updating in print editions varies. Update sections with pocket parts of the code to ensure currency Note: Ask a librarian for help. Superseded state statutes can be tricky. HeinOnline State Statutes: A Historical Archive Coverage varies by state. Public Laws and Session Laws U.S. Statues at Large (HeinOnline) Recent federal public laws from Congress.gov State Session Laws Legislative History [includes: Bills, Hearings, Committee Reports] Legislative History Research Guide for all Congressional docs Proquest Congressional - For a ton of legislative documents Government Printing Office (GPO) Agencies & Regulations Materials produced by an agency will often be found on the agency’s website. For additional information about finding administrative sources visit the Administrative Law Research Guide. Code of Federal Regulation (C.F.R.) CFR (HeinOnline) CFR (GPO) Federal Register (Fed. Reg.) Fed. Reg. (HeinOnline) Fed. Reg. (GPO) Cases & Docket Materials Case Law Online PDF versions of original reporter images are available from the Caselaw Access Project PDF versions of some original reporter images are available in Westlaw and Lexis For U.S. Supreme Court decisions, find cases (including slip opinions) in HeinOnline For state courts, also check individual court websites Heinonline has historical cases in State Reports: A Historical Archive Some page images of state and federal cases can be found in RavelLaw NOTE: If you have problems getting the PDF to open in Westlaw, switch browsers, i.e., from IE to Firefox. If that doesn’t work, try holding down the 'Ctrl' button while clicking on the PDF icon. Case Law in Print If no PDF is available through Westlaw, Lexis, or other online databases, you may need to order a copy via ILL. Shepardize cases in Westlaw or Lexis to ensure they are still good law Dockets Get docket materials on Bloomberg Law PACER is available to students at the library Reference Desk For further sources, go to Records, Briefs & Court Filings Secondary Sources Books Start with HOLLIS, the catalog. NOTE: In Hollis, check for item location and availability. Some books may be held at the Harvard Depository, while others may be at other libraries, e.g., Widener or Lamont. If you are only looking for a few specific pages in a book, try Google Books. If the book is not available in HOLLIS, try Borrow Direct to borrow from one of our partner libraries. Some materials may need to be borrowed through Interlibrary Loan (ILL), which can take several weeks. If you still can't find the book, contact the library for help. Articles Law Reviews (Heinonline) TIP: If the pinpoint cite is wrong in the footnote of the draft article, you may want to search for quotes, etc. in Westlaw or Lexis, and then obtain the PDF copy at Hein. Sometimes older volumes may still only exist in print; if you are not finding something electronically, try searching in http://hollis.harvard.edu/. Non-Law Journals Search in HOLLIS Try pasting your article name and author into Google Scholar for Harvard. If the article is not listed in HOLLIS, try finding the journal title in HOLLIS. If you do not find the journal in Hollis, try Borrow Direct or ILL If the paper is not yet published, try SSRN. Newspapers Finding newspapers can be tricky. Some journal editors still want the original print format, but HLS only has a few and most are only kept for a few months. Most databases archive just the text - not the page image. For online newspaper archives, consult the Newspapers section on the HLSL website. Check the Harvard Library Guide to Newspapers and News Sources for more. If not there, then find newspapers on microfilm at Widener Newspapers. If not from Widener, then search by Title in HOLLIS. Citations Citations The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation, 20th ed. Copies of The Bluebook are available on Reserve and in Reference [KF 245.B58] Compiled by the Law Review editors of Columbia, Harvard, University of Pennsylvania, and Yale, this guide is the most heavily relied upon citation manual for law. It prescribes citation formats for most U.S. law sources. Table One lists each jurisdiction's reporters, codes, and other primary sources, providing their citation formats and dates of coverage. For those citing foreign law in U.S. law reviews, The Bluebook is not comprehensive. If The Bluebook does not address a source you wish to cite, use custom and, if possible, parallel citations. When filing legal documents with a court, court rules of citation will apply. Consult court rules to determine whether or not Bluebook format is appropriate. The Bluebook Online (Must purchase an account) Old Editions of the Bluebook Blue Tips Georgetown Law Library's Bluebook Guide Cardiff Index to Legal Abbreviations From Cardiff University, this site provides the full title from the abbreviations for legal publications. It covers case reporters and legal periodicals from the British Isles, the Commonwealth, and the United States, including those covering international and comparative law. For detailed information on citation guides for both domestic and foreign legal and non-legal sources, please see Legal Citation Guide and Abbreviations. Getting Help Contact Us! Ask Us! Submit a question or search our knowledge base. Chat with us! Chat with a librarian. Email: research@law.harvard.edu Contact Historical & Special Collections at specialc@law.harvard.edu Meet with Us Schedule an online consult with a Librarian Hours Library Hours Classes View Training Calendar or Request an Insta-Class Text Ask a Librarian, 617-702-2728 Last Updated: Apr 6, 2022 5:05 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/law/subcite Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Law, Writing Resources & Citation Tools Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy