University of Kansas logo Libraries KU Libraries Subject & Course Guides *Engineering Getting started Search this Guide Search *Engineering: Getting started A introductory guide for finding research in the Engineering field. Below are links to relevant databases, books, patents, and more. Getting started Finding Articles Books / E-Books Patents Technical Reports Standards Abbreviations Citing Resources Starting points Google Scholar (includes Get at KU) A web search engine that provides a way to search the scholarly literature including articles, theses, books, abstracts, and court opinions. Sources include academic publishers, professional societies, online repositories, universities, and other web sites Web of science Citations to journal articles are indexed here. Citation tools like reference tracking and metrics are included. IEEE Xplore Provides access to IEEE/IET Electronic Library (IEL). Contains almost a third of the world's current electrical engineering and computer science literature. A subscription to IEL includes: full-text access to nearly 2 million documents; IEEE and IET journals, magazines, transactions, and conference proceedings; all approved and published IEEE standards; complete backfile to 1988 and select content back to 1913; INSPEC abstract/citation records; full-text PDF images of all articles, papers, and standards. Unlimited article printing is permitted. KU's subscription does not include full text access to continuing education courses (multi-media), IEEE books (bibliographic information only) and draft standards. This resource is being funded through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries and the School of Engineering. (Restricted to 15 simultaneous users.) Ebook Central Several engineering subjects are covered in ebrary including petroleum engineering. Related Guides Mechanical Engineering Civil, Environmental and Architectural Engineering Chemical Engineering: Industry Chemical and Petroleum Engineering Copyright Resources Ask a Librarian We can help with your research questions -- contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. We're online! Chat with us now. Next: Finding Articles >> Last Updated: May 17, 2022 12:23 PM URL: https://guides.lib.ku.edu/engineering Print Page Login to LibApps. Subjects: Engineering Tags: engineering University of Kansas Libraries 1425 Jayhawk Blvd Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Contact Libraries 785-864-8983 Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Libraries website feedback. KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.