Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Faculty of Arts & Sciences Libraries Music Research Guide Home Music Research Guide Information on getting started with research resources at the Loeb Music Library. Table of Contents Home What's New? HOLLIS (Library catalog and more) Dictionaries, Encyclopedias, Bibliographies How to Find... Articles Recordings and Videos Scores and Sheet Music Concert Reviews Collected Works Editions Dissertations and Theses Music in Special Collections Ethnomusicology Research @ Harvard Jazz Research @ Harvard Citing Sources Senior Thesis Style Guide: Footnotes Senior Thesis Style Guide: Bibliography Get Help Elizabeth Berndt-Morris Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: Loeb Music Library, Music Building 617-998-5310 Social: Facebook Page Twitter Page Instagram Page Using the Music Library Welcome! This guide is a curated list of resources related to music for on-campus and remote users. Bookmark this page for easy reference, and access all of Harvard Library’s online collections using your HarvardKey. Would you like personalized help? Contact a music librarian by emailing us, using the chat button on this guide, or scheduling a research consultation. We're happy to meet virtually, or to set up an appointment to meet in person with current Harvard students, faculty, and staff. Email or schedule an appointment with Liz Email or schedule an appointment with Kerry Curious about research consultations? Watch the short video What is a research consultation to find out what to expect. Start Your Research No matter what your research topic is, here are five good places to start: HOLLIS Harvard's main library catalogue: find books, articles, scores, recordings, and more in one search. Sign in with your Harvard Key to get more results. Oxford Music Online Contains Grove Music Online: includes encyclopedia articles on musical genres, topics, and people. Online Scores: Classical Scores Library Full, study, piano, and vocal scores of music from the Middle Ages to the 21st century, available for use online or printed/saved to PDF. Online Audio: Naxos Music Library Classical, world, jazz, and folk recordings, with biographical information, opera synopses and libretti, glossaries and pronunciation guides. Journal Articles: RILM Abstracts of Music Literature An international bibliography of music articles, collections, and books covering 10,000+ journals from the 1800s to the present. Especially good for finding book chapters and conference proceedings in addition to journal articles. Timesavers Harvard Library Bookmark Need access to an online article? Use this bookmarklet to get quick access to subscriptions purchased by Harvard Library. Lean Library This browser extension provides quick and simple access to digital content purchased by Harvard Library. Citation and Research Management Tools Organize your research, keep track of your references, and add citations and bibliographies to your papers. The Harvard Library supports Zotero, EndNote, and OverLeaf Pro+. Next: What's New? >> Last Updated: Feb 23, 2022 1:46 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/music Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Art & Music, Library Collections & Services, Music, Performing Arts Tags: ethnomusicology, music, music history, thesis Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy