Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Faculty of Arts & Sciences Libraries Contemporary Art Home Contemporary Art Table of Contents Home Find Books and Articles Journals Find Images Find Video Lectures and Interviews Galleries Art Librarian Jessica Evans Brady Email Me Contact: Fine Arts Library, Littauer Center 617-496-1503 Website Ask Us Ask a Librarian This is our virtual reference service. It includes live chat, email, and FAQs. This guide was created in a collaboration between Amanda Bowen and Connie Coburn, and updated by Jessica Evans Brady. Welcome Joan Snyder, Summer Orange, 1970. Oil, acrylic, spray enamel on canvas, 42" x 96". Harvard Art Museums/Fogg Museum, Gift of Michael Walls (GSD, Class of 1961-1963) in memory of his parents, John Alvin James Williamson Walls and Elva Mary Claire Riccardi Walls, 2007.225 . Photo: Steven Sloman. © Joan Snyder. Welcome to the Fine Arts Library Contemporary Art research guide. The guide is intended to provide students and scholars with helpful resources and tips for researching art produced from the 1970's onward. The Fine Arts Library collection contains books, magazines, journals, exhibition and auction catalogues as well as electronic resources that provide information about contemporary art . Please explore the guide and do not hesitate to contact us for further for help with your research. Harvard Fine Arts Library The Fine Arts Library is the primary resource for the study of the history of art and related disciplines at Harvard University. The library provides scholars with access to an exceptional variety of printed materials, visual images, and special collections. Hours Location Website Get It @ Harvard There are several ways to get copies of materials that aren't on Harvard's shelves: Get It - Harvard Library sums up the options. Scan and Deliver Request scans of journal articles or book chapters from items owned by Harvard, delivered electronically within 4 business days. Borrow Direct Get books and scores directly from the libraries of Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, MIT, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton, and Yale; they'll be delivered in 4 business days. Interlibrary Loan Request materials not available through Borrow Direct; most items are delivered in about 2 weeks. News and Events Index Magazine, Harvard Art Museum Highlights contemporay art news and events at Harvard. Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Listing of current and past exhibitioins, artist talks and lectures. Big, Red & Shiny A listing of current art exhibitions and events in and around the Boston area. Office for the Arts at Harvard Events calendar A calendar of visual and performing arts events happening on campus. Radcliffe Institute Public Art Competition Open to all students enrolled in a Harvard degree program, the Radcliffe Institute Public Art Competition provides them with a unique opportunity to design and build a site-specific installation for prominent display in the Susan S. and Kenneth L. Wallach Garden in Radcliffe Yard. Next: Find Books and Articles >> Last Updated: Nov 21, 2019 12:16 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/contemporaryart Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Art, Art & Music Tags: 20th century, 21st century, art, arts, contemporary art, harvard art museums, modern art, museums, painting, photography collections photographers photography collections harvard collections, research guide, research guides Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy