Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Faculty of Arts & Sciences Libraries Music Research Guide Scores and Sheet Music Music Research Guide Information on getting started with research resources at the Loeb Music Library. Table of Contents Home What's New? HOLLIS (Library catalog and more) Dictionaries, Encyclopedias, Bibliographies How to Find... Articles Recordings and Videos Scores and Sheet Music Concert Reviews Collected Works Editions Dissertations and Theses Music in Special Collections Ethnomusicology Research @ Harvard Jazz Research @ Harvard Citing Sources Senior Thesis Style Guide: Footnotes Senior Thesis Style Guide: Bibliography Get Help Elizabeth Berndt-Morris Email Me Schedule Appointment Contact: Loeb Music Library, Music Building 617-998-5310 Social: Facebook Page Twitter Page Instagram Page Finding Scores with Preferred Titles In library catalogs, pieces of music are given added, preferred titles, so that one search finds every version of a piece. Preferred titles (aka uniform titles) are especially useful because pieces could have: titles in multiple languages (Brandenburg Concertos vs. Brandenburgische Konzerte); form titles and numbers (Sonata no. 3); well-known but unofficial descriptive titles (Moonlight Sonata); collective titles (Songs; Works). This tutorial from the Indiana University Music Library is a good introduction to preferred titles for music. Need to check a title or opus number? Oxford Music Online/Grove Music Online is a good place to start: many articles about composers include works lists. Digital Score Collections These collections are focused on musical scores and other music-related materials from more than one period; for links to many more, see Online Resources for Music Scholars. IMSLP IMSLP (The International Music Score Library Project) holds thousands of digitized scores from collections around the world. The site is governed by Canadian copyright law; not all available scores are in the public domain in the United States. Use Harvard's subscription to skip wait times for downloads. Music Online: Classical Scores Library Full, study, piano, and vocal scores of music from the Middle Ages to the 21st century, available for use online or printed/saved to PDF. BabelScores Online music library featuring creative contemporary composers from the last decades. A-R Editions' Online Music Anthology 550 representative vocal and instrumental compositions from antiquity through the nineteenth century. All scores can be viewed online or printed. Score Follower Library Score Follower Library (SFL) is a faceted search tool that allows users to filter through Score Follower's public archive of works by instrumentation, work duration, composer nationality, and other useful facts. Digital Scores and Libretti Hundreds of rare or unique manuscripts and early editions from the Loeb Music Library collections. more... less... Digital scores and libretti from the Harvard Library collections, including first and early editions and manuscript copies of music from the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries by J.S. Bach and Bach family members, Mozart, Schubert and other composers, as well as multiple versions of nineteenth century opera scores, seminal works of musical modernism, and music of the Second Viennese School. The Music Treasures Consortium Digitized music manuscripts and prints (16th-20th centuries) from the Library of Congress, British Library, Bavarian State Library, New York Public Library, The Morgan, The Newberry, the Beethoven-Haus Bonn, Harvard, Juilliard, Johns Hopkins, Princeton, University of Iowa, University of Washington, and Yale. Sibley Digital Scores Public Domain scores from the collections of the Sibley Library, Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester Online Resources for Music Scholars: Digital Scores Links to many more digital score and sheet music collections, from a research guide maintained by the Loeb Music Library. Sheet Music Online Sheet Music Consortium 200,000+ pieces of sheet music from the collections of 22 institutions. Sign up for a free account to make your own private or shared portfolios of sheet music from the site. Music for the Nation: American Sheet Music, ca. 1820 to 1860 Over 15,000 pieces of sheet music registered for copyright at the Library of Congress between 1820 and 1860. Music for the Nation: American Sheet Music, ca. 1870 to 1885 Over 47,000 pieces of sheet music registered for copyright at the Library of Congress between 1870 and 1885. Library of Congress: Historic Sheet Music Collection, 1800-1922 9000 pieces of music - the majority from 1850-1920 - including both classical and popular songs. << Previous: Recordings and Videos Next: Concert Reviews >> Last Updated: Feb 23, 2022 1:46 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/music Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Art & Music, Library Collections & Services, Music, Performing Arts Tags: ethnomusicology, music, music history, thesis Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy