CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Theological Seminary Studies: Home Home How-To Videos CLIO Books Databases Background Info Archives & Rare Materials Delivery UTS Course Reserves Biblical Studies Events & Exhibits Technology Library Spaces Cite Help WELCOME This Research Guide is designed to assist seminarians and students of religion, biblical studies, interreligious engagement, social ethics, worship, the arts, and counseling to find resources in the libraries. Students, faculty, and staff at Union Theological Seminary, Columbia, and affiliates with a UNI and Password can access materials referenced in this Guide. Read Columbia's full access guidelines. To get started... New students and users must go to Manage My UNI and do two things, before using library resources: Activate My UNI (to set up your UNI in the Libraries) Set UNI Mail Forwarding (to direct library mail to utsnyc.edu or personal inbox) Free NYTimes.com Account Stay connected with the news! After "Activate My UNI" and "Set Mail Forwarding" (see under "To get started..." above), students, faculty and staff at Union Theological Seminary can set up a free NYTimes.com account using the steps outlined in this guide. Use UNI@columbia.edu as the email address to sign up. Online Resources During COVID-19 Library Status Updates highlights currently available services and resources COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community features health resources, news, and university alerts Where to go... The Burke Library has resources for biblical studies, theology, and the history of Christianity (including the extensive Missionary Research Library). View, download, and print the "Burke Library Info" sheet below for an overview of available services: Burke Library Info Sheet Librarian Recommend a Title for Purchase Recommend a Title for Purchase using this form or contact Jeffrey Wayno, Collection Services Librarian for the Burke Library at jeffrey.wayno@columbia.edu Next: How-To Videos >> Last Updated: Jun 1, 2022 9:22 AM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/theologicalseminarystudies Print Page Login to LibApps. CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.