Skip to Main Content For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Research Guides Home Start Your Research Research Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides UW Libraries E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Guides by Collection E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More: Guides by Collection ALL GUIDES BY SUBJECT BY COLLECTION Search for guides: Audio This guide provides links to and information about audio and music resources at the UW and beyond. Book Reviews Tips and recommended resources for finding book reviews. Data Resources Includes information & resources for finding & visualizing data. Dissertations & Theses Finding dissertations and theses at the UW and beyond. E-Book Collections Major collections of e-books and search tips E-Newspapers & News Online newspapers and recommended resources for finding information in the news - past and present. Government Publications Publications and data produced by governmental and inter-governmental agencies at the international, national, state and local levels. Images Guide to high-quality image databases and resources. Interdisciplinary image content, search strategies, evaluating images, & image citation guide. Maps Search tips for finding maps, atlases, aerial photos, GIS, and other cartographic materials. Special Collections Guides listing manuscript, photographic and other specialized collections available in Special Collections. Video & Streaming Video Find physical, streaming, and online videos for your research and teaching needs. Other Collections ESL Resources English as a Second Language (ESL) resources from Odegaard Library's collection and beyond. Good Reads Need a break from textbooks and studying? The Odegaard Good Reads collection contains popular fiction, graphic novels, and topical nonfiction books. Study Abroad The Odegaard Study Abroad Collection (2nd floor) contains travel guides, language learning materials, such as the Pimsleur language program, and other resources to help prepare for your trip. Articles & Research Databases A selection of 400+ databases to find citations and sometimes full text articles and other materials. See Research Guides for recommended databases in each discipline. Go to A-Z List Class & Other Campus Guides Class Guides Health Sciences Guides UW Bothell/Cascadia Guides UW Tacoma Guides Subject Librarians Last Updated: Sep 20, 2019 8:04 AM URL: https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/types Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.