CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News University Writing CC1010: Introduction Introduction Background Sources Journal and Newspaper Articles Books/DVDs/Archives with CLIO Citing Sources Politics, Law, and Public Opinion American Studies Resources Gender Studies Resources Human Rights Resources Data Sciences Medical Humanities Multimedia Music Resources Film/Television Resources Image Collections Credibility/Reliability? Writing Center Database Search Tips Ask A Librarian University Writing This research guide provides links to library resources and services that will help you successfully complete University Writing assignments. If you need research assistance, please feel free to chat with us, email us with a question, stop by during our drop-in hours, or schedule an individual consultation using out Ask a Librarian service: https://library.columbia.edu/services/askalibrarian.html. IMPORTANT: Please see these webpages for the latest information on access to library collections and research support for Spring 2022: Library Alerts: https://library.columbia.edu/about/news/alert.html Additional information for undergraduates: Services & Tools for Students Milstein Undergraduate Library Library Services Hours & Study Spaces Check the hours of our libraries, departments and services. We offer a variety of study spaces and venues however students should use seat reservations during this time. Research Support Librarians are available to assist you with research support in person, via e-mail, phone, chat, or by appointment. If you need help, Ask a Librarian. Our Research Guides are curated lists of recommended resources (for specific academic disciplines and subjects) from expert librarians. Finding Library Materials The Libraries' website is a gateway to collections and services. CLIO is the libraries' primary search interface. It provides access to many kinds of resources, including books, databases, journals, and articles. Consult the Borrowing and Loan Policies page to see loan information. Scan & Deliver enables students, faculty and staff to request electronic delivery of articles and book chapters from the general print collections of most Columbia Libraries. Pick Up services allow current faculty, staff, and students to request pick up of library materials at participating library locations. Borrow Direct enables you to borrow books directly from other university libraries if the book you need is unavailable or is not owned by Columbia University. Interlibrary Loan is the service to use for items that are not available through Borrow Direct, such as journal articles. Next: Background Sources >> Last Updated: May 4, 2022 8:22 AM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/ENGL-C1010 Login to LibApps. CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.