Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Columbia Law School Research Guides Law Library Services Guide to Columbia Law Library Services and Policies Home Search this Guide Search Guide to Columbia Law Library Services and Policies Home Books and Print Materials Study Room Reservations Reference and Research AssistanceToggle Dropdown About the Reference Librarians Fee-Based Services Policies Law Library Hours Law Library Hours Law Library Reference Hours Columbia Law School's Academic Calendar Columbia University Libraries Hours Address Columbia Law School Jerome L. Greene Hall, 3rd floor Amsterdam Avenue and West 116th Street Access to the Law Library For Columbia Law School Affiliates: Just tap your CUID at the turnstile to enter the Law Library. No Seat Reservations required. If for any reason your ID does not grant access through the turnstile, entry to the library will not be permitted and please contact the University ID Center. For Columbia University Affiliates: Before arrival, you must fill out this form, so that you can show the confirmation email to the Public Safety guard at the building's entrance and upon arrival to the Law Library on the 3rd floor. If you are signed in to any other non-Columbia Google product, you may have to sign out first in order to fill out the form. If for any reason your ID does not grant access through the turnstile, entry to the library will not be permitted, please contact the University ID Center. Access to Jerome Greene Hall and the Law Library is only via the main entrance on 116th Street. For Columbia Law School Alumni: This semester, access to the Law Library by CLS alumni is on an extremely limited basis and must be pre-arranged via a consultation with a reference librarian at referencedesk@law.columbia.edu. Access to the Diamond Law Library for all other visitors is not permitted for the Summer 2022 semester. Using Law Library Databases Westlaw Edge, Lexis+, and Bloomberg Law all use individual usernames and passwords for access. 1Ls and LL.M.s receive instructions for how to set up their accounts at the time of orientation or during the first week of classes. Transfer students or students who need assistance may email referencedesk@law.columbia.edu. You may access other Law Library databases from the Law Library's Databases and Indexes A-Z webpage or by searching Pegasus for the name of the database. In most cases you will be prompted to log in with your UNI and password for access. For assistance using or locating material in one of the Law Library databases, you may contact a reference librarian. Other Columbia University Libraries Law students are welcome to both study in and use the materials of the other libraries on campus. CLIO, the Columbia University Libraries' catalog, allows you to search for physical materials as well as by article title for articles contained in many of the various databases CUL subscribes to. For information on the various services provided by the other libraries on campus, how to obtain materials from them, and much more, visit the Columbia University Libraries News webpage. Law Library reference librarians are available to assist law students with navigating CLIO and the Columbia University Libraries' collections and services, although we may refer you to other subject specialist librarians on campus where appropriate. 

  Search Next: Books and Print Materials >> Last Updated: May 13, 2022 1:35 PM URL: https://guides.law.columbia.edu/services Print Page Login to LibApps