Teach Anywhere Learn Anywhere Work Anywhere ILC Home Select Page Teach Anywhere The Center for Engaged Learning and Teaching and the Innovative Learning Center have collaborated to provide the Teach Anywhere Toolkit. These pages provide tips for Getting Started as well as Best Practices /How To’s for our primary academic tools. Support is available for remote teaching and learing through Online Teaching Training and Teach Anywhere Workshops. Teach Anywhere Office Hours will be available for meeting with ILC and CELT staff, resuming before the Fall 2021 semester. For questions, concerns, or suggestions about this guide, or to request a consultation, email the team at teachanywhere@tulane.edu. Teach Anywhere Best Practices How To’s and Tools Classroom Technology Emergency Campus Closure FAQs Teach Anywhere Office Hours Teach Anywhere Office Hours will be paused for the Summer term. These are open office hours for faculty to meet with the CELT and ILC staff. We will be holding expanded consulting hours for you to drop in online (Zoom) and work with us directly on your course content. Click the link below to join the Office Hours Zoom room. Join Office Hours Preparing for Online Assessments Instructors planning for end of term assessments that will be fully online might find the following resources helpful. Please drop-in to office hours with your questions and hands-on tutorials. Thank you! Traditional and Alternative Online Assessment Tools/Checklist Canvas Quizzes – Build your assessment using the Canvas Quizzes features Proctoring Canvas Assessments with Respondus LockDown Browser Previewing Final Papers with Turnitin Feedback Studio Upcoming Canvas Trainings The ILC will host several Canvas trainings live via Zoom for instructors new to Canvas or for those who just need a refresher. Register for a particular training using the buttons below when available: Canvas Quizzes Trainings Click the button below to view a recording that covers the Canvas Quizzes interface. Learn how to create, moderate, and grade Canvas quizzes. Canvas Quiz Bootcamp Recording For information about all upcoming ILC sponsored trainings, click HERE Enroll in Our Self-Paced Trainings The ILC and CELT have created self-paced online trainings to help faculty work in a technology enhanced environment. Enroll in these courses to make them available on your Canvas Dashboard. Online Teacher Training Classroom Equipment Training Description of Classroom Technology List of Tech Enhanced Classrooms Student Squad for Academic Support The Course Experience Assistant (CEA) program is a team of Tulane students trained in instructional technologies, ranging from the classroom media equipment, such as cameras and microphones, to ed tech software, such as Zoom and Canvas. CEAs provide on demand support for faculty with issues in and out of the classroom. Click Here For More Details Teach Anywhere Operations In order to best serve the entire faculty population and focus our efforts on issues that only our combined staff can answer, we are suspending one–on-one consultations outside of our scheduled office hours and are encouraging everyone to visit the Teach Anywhere office hours. The office hours will always be staffed with a member of the ILC team and a member of the CELT team. Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS