University of Kansas logo Libraries KU Libraries Subject & Course Guides Streaming Video Streaming Video Provided By KU Search this Guide Search Streaming Video: Streaming Video Provided By KU DVD/VHS Digitization KU Libraries offer a service to digitize portions of library owned DVDs/videos for classroom use if not available through other sources. To comply with US copyright law, faculty or instructors must complete a form and acknowledge that the service being request is a fair use of materials. Complete the request form for each title. Multi-Media Sources on Campus KU Libraries Catalog Use the "Set Other Search Limits" button to limit the "Item Type" to "Video/Film/Other projected media" to search the video/DVD collection of the KU Libraries. EGARC Catalog EGARC provides technology assistance in the learning and teaching in the humanities. Among their resources is a large collection of DVDs and other media material. KU's Official YouTube Channel Watch videos on all types of topics that relate to life at KU. Streaming Availability Just Watch Search for various places to find a movie or TV show, including theaters, kiosks, streaming sites, and digital download services. Reelgood Search to see where a movie or TV show might be available to stream. Library Provided Streaming Video Collections Academic Video Online This database provides access to many of the streaming video titles provided by Alexander Street Press. This collection includes materials on all subject matters and includes a collection of PBS films. Ambrose Video This collection includes over 7000 films from a variety academic disciplines. Among those included are the entire BBC Shakespeare Collection. C-Span video library The video archive includes all programming from the three C-SPAN's networks. Dance Online: Dance in video Provides 900 hours of video content covering the full scope of 20th and 21st century dance. Digital Theatre Plus A film database covering theater productions, including Shakespeare, classics, musical theater, dance, opera, and recent British productions. Digitalia Film Library Includes over 800 films mostly in Spanish and Portuguese with English subtitles. Films on demand Films on Demand contains over 22,000 videos covering a variety of academic areas. The films can be played in their entirety or made into smaller segments. Met Opera on Demand Met Opera on Demand offers users instant access to more than 500 full-length Metropolitan Opera performances. Naxos video library Provides an extensive streaming video library of classical music performances, opera, ballet, live concerts, and documentaries. (Restricted to 5 simultaneous users) PBS Video Collection (4th Edition) Streaming video from PBS shows including NOVA, Nature, and American Experience. Vanderbilt Television News Archive This collection of streaming content spans the presidential administrations of Lyndon Baines Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. The core collection includes evening news broadcasts from ABC, CBS, and NBC (since 1968), an hour per day of CNN (since 1995) and Fox News (since 2004). Select Free Streaming Sites American Experience Watch entire episodes of select American Experience episodes and clips from others. Additional titles from this series are provided by the KU Libraries. American Memory A limited numberof early films from the collections of the Library of Congress. The Archive of American Television A large database of interviews with important individuals in the history of television. Civil Rights Digital Library A website that provides online films, texts, images, and audio recordings related to the Civil Rights movement in the United States in the 1950's and 1960's. Fandango MOVIECLIPS Search the largest free collection of licensed movie clips available. The content is both contemporary and historical. Folkstreams This website contains hard-to-find documentary films about American folk or roots cultures. Internet Archive The Moving Image Archive contains nearly a quarter million films, uploaded by Archive users, and ranging from classic full-length films, to daily alternative news broadcasts, to cartoons and concerts. Included films can be browsed by subject or keyword searched. Russian Film Hub A collection of Russian films. Many with English subtitles. The site has great searching features. WGBH Open Vault A wide variety of contemporary and historical content from this PBS television station and NPR radio station. TED Recorded presentations presented at various TED events around the world. Tubi An ad-supported video-on-demand service with more than 35,000 movies and TV shows Subject Guide Sara Morris Email Me Contact: Watson Library, Room 350 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045-7544 785-864-8907 Subjects: American Studies, History, United States, Primary Sources Research Help We can help with your research questions -- contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. We're online! Chat with us now. Last Updated: Apr 5, 2022 2:32 PM URL: https://guides.lib.ku.edu/streamingvideo Print Page Login to LibApps. Subjects: Film, How to guides, Tutorials Tags: american_history, blackboard, digitized_sources, film, primary_sources, streaming_video, united_states_history, video University of Kansas Libraries 1425 Jayhawk Blvd Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Contact Libraries 785-864-8983 Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Libraries website feedback. KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.