Skip to Main Content SEARCH & FIND SERVICES & RESEARCH ABOUT THE LIBRARIES MATERIALS & BORROWING HELP & SUPPORT Florida State University Libraries Research Guides A-Z Databases A-Z Databases Find the best library databases for your research. Toggle search filters navigation 722 DATABASES DATABASES Go Database Subject Filter All Subjects ** Researcher's Toolbox ** *General / Multi-Subject *General Science Accounting African-American Studies Anthropology Archaeology Architecture Art Art Education Art History Art Therapy Arts Administration Asian Studies Atmospheric Science Bibliography Biochemistry Biological Sciences Business Business Legal Studies Chemistry Classics Communication Communication Disorders Computer Science Criminology and Criminal Justice Cultural Heritage Dance Data Analytics and Information Systems Demography and Population Studies Design Distance Learning Early Childhood Education Earth Science Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences Ebooks Economics Education Educational Leadership and Policy Studies Educational Psychology Engineering English Entrepreneurship Environmental Sciences Exceptional Student Education Extended Campuses Faculty Resources Film Studies Finance Fine Arts Food Geography Geology Government Information Graduate student resources Higher Education History Hospitality Human Development & Family Science Humanities Information Studies Information Technology Instructional Systems & Learning Technologies Insurance Interior Design International Affairs Latin American & Caribbean Studies Law Library & Information Science Linguistics Literature Management & Strategy Maps Marketing Material Science Mathematics Medicine Meteorology Microbiology Middle Eastern Studies MIS: Management Information Systems Modern Languages Museum Studies Music Music Education Music Therapy Newspapers Nursing Nutrition & Integrative Physiology Oceanography Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Public Administration and Policy Public Health Public Safety and Security Publishing, Data Management and Digital Scholarship Real Estate Religion Retail Entrepreneurship Rhetoric & Composition Risk Management Russian & Eastern European Studies Scientific Computing Social Work Sociocultural and International Education Sociology Special Collections & Archives Sport Management Sport Psychology Sports & Recreation Management Statistics Studio Art Teacher Education Technology Theatre Urban and Regional Planning Women's and Gender Studies Database Types Filter All Database TypesBiographiesCitation ManagementDatasets / StatisticsDirectoriesDissertations / ThesesE-Book CollectionsE-Journal CollectionsEncyclopedias & DictionariesGovernment PublicationsGrant InformationHistorical / Primary SourcesImagesIndexes / CatalogsMapsMusic ScoresNewspapers and NewswiresOpen AccessPatents / TrademarksProceedingsReportsResearch StarterStandardsStreaming AudioStreaming VideoTesting / Tutorials AllABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ# Clear Filters/Browse All Databases Loading... Featured Database CQ ResearcherThis link opens in a new window This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Explore in-depth, unbiased coverage of political and social issues, with regular reports on a wide range of topics including: health, international affairs, education, the environment, technology, the U.S. economy, crime, and civil liberties. New / Trial Databases Loading... The following databases are newly acquired or being evaluated for a future subscription. Bloomsbury Music and Sound This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: May 5 Bloomsbury Popular Music provides unrivalled scholarly coverage of modern popular music worldwide, covering the mid-20th century to the present day music. Supports courses in ethnomusicology, the performing arts, media and communication, cultural studies, anthropology and sociology. Bloomsbury Sound Studies is the first digital resource to provide wide-ranging, cross-cultural, and interdisciplinary scholarly content in the study of sound. Subject areas covered include art, aesthetics, architecture, contemporary music, history, philosophy, technology, and cultural studies and the growing literature of sonic and auditory theory, methodology, and practice. more... less... Resource URL: http://www.bloomsburymusicandsound.com/ Abbreviation: bms Vendor: Bloomsbury Publishing Subjects: Music Type: E-Book Collections Business Abstracts with Full Text This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: May 17 Business Abstracts with Full Text contains full-text articles from key publications and provides product evaluations, interviews, biographical sketches, corporate profiles, obituaries, surveys, statistical rankings, book reviews and reports. The database covers a full range of business-related topics including finance, management, international business, human resources and marketing. more... less... Resource URL: http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?authtype=ip,uid&profile=ehost&defaultdb=bft Abbreviation: baft Vendor: EBSCO Coverage: 1981–Current Subjects: Business Type: Indexes / Catalogs Columbia Granger’s World of Poetry This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Apr 14 The Columbia Granger’s World of Poetry contains full text poems, history, criticism, and biographies. The poems in full text are the most widely-read in the English language, as well as in Spanish, French, German, and Italian. Included also is poetry in Portuguese, Polish, Yiddish, Welsh, Gaelic, and other Celtic languages, as well as poems in the ancient languages: Anglo-Saxon, Provencal and Latin. Scholars in each of these languages have reviewed and guided the selection of poems, so that the poetry on Granger’s is also the poetry encountered in the classroom. more... less... Tutorials: Granger's Guided Tour Video Resource URL: http://www.columbiagrangers.org Abbreviation: cgwp Vendor: Columbia University Press Subjects: Literature Type: Historical / Primary Sources EThOS This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Mar 29 EThOS is a service provided by The British Library offering freely available access to doctoral theses awarded by UK Higher Education institutions. Approximately half of the records in EThOS provide access to the full text thesis. more... less... A user account is required to download full theses directly from EThOS or to order digitized copies. An account is not required to search EThOS, view the records, and read abstracts. For assistance with using EThOS, see the FAQ web page. Resource URL: https://ethos.bl.uk/Home.do Abbreviation: ethos Vendor: The British Library Coverage: 1812–Current Subjects: *General / Multi-Subject Type: Dissertations / Theses Florida Digital Newspaper Library This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Feb 17 The Florida Digital Newspaper Library (FDNL) exists to provide access to the news and history of Florida Newspapers are a state treasure, the historian's and genealogist's best friend, and the community's collective memory. In the world of newspapers, today's news is already history, from the moment the stories are printed. FDNL is moving to a new platform. See the beta website for the new platform. more... less... Resource URL: https://original-ufdc.uflib.ufl.edu/fdnl Abbreviation: fdnl Vendor: University of Florida George A. Smathers Libraries. Subjects: History Type: Historical / Primary Sources, Newspapers and Newswires History Vault: Southern Life, Slavery, and the Civil War This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Apr 22 History Vault: Southern Life, Slavery, and the Civil War: includes access to primary source, cross-searchable, full-text/full-image documents from the following collections: Reconstruction and Military Government after the Civil War: From heart-wrenching personal letters to bills of lading for office supplies, this module offers remarkable insight into the early Reconstruction period in the American South. Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Law and Order in the 19th Century, 1636-1880: This module documents the international and domestic traffic in slaves in Britain’s New World colonies and the United States, providing important primary source material on the business aspect of the slave trade. Southern Life and African American History, 1775-1915, Plantations Records: The Plantation Records in this module documents the far-reaching impact of plantations on both the American South and the nation. more... less... Resource URL: http://search.proquest.com/historyvault Abbreviation: hvslscw Vendor: ProQuest Subjects: African-American Studies, Communication, History Type: Historical / Primary Sources LAPOP This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Apr 15 LAPOP, a survey research lab at Vanderbilt University, carries out surveys of public opinion in the Americas. LAPOP carries out targeted national surveys, conducts impact evaluation studies, and produces reports on individual attitudes, evaluations, and experiences. The AmericasBarometer survey covers 34 nations including all of North, Central, and South America, as well as a significant number of countries in the Caribbean. Note: This subscription expires on April 13, 2023. more... less... Resource URL: ttp://datasets.americasbarometer.org/database/index.php Abbreviation: lapop Vendor: Vanderbilt University Subjects: Latin American & Caribbean Studies Type: Datasets / Statistics MedlinePlus This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Jan 10 MedlinePlus is an online health information resource for patients and their families and friends. It is a service of the National Library of Medicine (NLM), the world's largest medical library, and a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). more... less... Resource URL: https://medlineplus.gov/ Abbreviation: medlp Vendor: National Library of Medicine Subjects: Communication, Communication Disorders, Public Health Type: Government Publications North American Indian Thought and Culture This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Apr 22 North American Indian Thought and Culture integrates autobiographies, biographies, Indian publications, oral histories, personal writings, photographs, drawings, and audio files. The accounts offer a direct window into Indian attitudes toward the earliest European settlers and the resultant transformations that took place, first as trade was established and later as displacement forced tribes into unfamiliar territories. The collection presents the entire spectrum of native peoples’ experiences from their own point of view. more... less... Resource URL: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/ibio Abbreviation: naitc Vendor: Alexander Street, a ProQuest Company Subjects: Anthropology, Cultural Heritage, History Type: Historical / Primary Sources Nursing and Mental Health in Video: A Symptom Media Collection This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: May 9 Nursing and Mental Health in Video features over 240 videos of the most common mental health disorders nurses may encounter—whether in a primary care setting, emergency room, medical, psychiatric or other. more... less... Resource URL: https://search.alexanderstreet.com/nmhv Abbreviation: nmhv Vendor: Alexander Street, a ProQuest Company Subjects: Nursing Type: Streaming Video Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Literature This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Apr 1 From the emergence of book culture in Northern Europe to vibrant 21st century Indian fiction, from female writers in Latin America to queer literature and film theory, the Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Literature aims to map, over time, the world’s entire landscape of literary expressions and criticism, weaving together the various fields and approaches that make up literature in its broadest sense. more... less... Resource URL: http://oxfordre.com/literature Abbreviation: orel Vendor: Oxford University Press Subjects: Literature Type: Encyclopedias & Dictionaries SHELDUS This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Mar 7 Spatial Hazard Events and Losses Database for the United States (SHELDUS) is a county-level hazard data set for the U.S. and covers natural hazards such thunderstorms, hurricanes, floods, wildfires, and tornados as well as perils such as flash floods, heavy rainfall, etc. The database contains information on the date of an event, affected location (county and state) and the direct losses caused by the event (property and crop losses, injuries, and fatalities) from 1960 to present. New users must register for a SHELDUS account with an @fsu.edu or @business.fsu.edu email address. FSU has access to the SHELDUS database and aggregated data sets. Select from the Aggregate By Geography, Aggregate By Time Span, or Aggregate By Hazard drop-down menus before running your query. more... less... Resource URL: https://cemhs.asu.edu/sheldus Abbreviation: sheldus Vendor: Arizona State University Subjects: Insurance, Risk Management, Urban and Regional Planning Type: Datasets / Statistics Thesaurus Linguae Latinae This link opens in a new window New This opens a pop-up window to share the URL for this database Added: Mar 23 Thesaurus Linguae Latinae is the full text database edition of the authoritative print Latin dictionary of the same name. Every Latin word includes a comprehensive, richly documented picture of its possibilities and history—not only for Latin scholars, but also for scholars of the various branches of ancient studies and for related disciplines. more... less... Guidance for using TLL can be found at Help using TLL. Resource URL: http://tll.degruyter.com/ Abbreviation: tll Vendor: De Gruyter Coverage: Classical period–600 A.D. Subjects: Classics, Linguistics Type: Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Loading... Loading... Need Help? Powered by Springshare. All rights reserved. Login to LibApps Report a problem. title × Loading... Close The Florida State University Libraries Library Hours | Maps and Directions | Employment | Giving to the Libraries | The FSULib Blog | Library Homepage Florida State University Libraries | 116 Honors Way | Tallahassee, FL 32306 | (850) 644-2706