Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides E-Resources Streaming Video Collections Home Search this Guide Search Streaming Video Collections: Home List of streaming video collections. Home Arts & Humanities Video Collections STEM and Social Science Streaming Video Collections Off-Campus Access IMPORTANT NOTE: In most cases, for off-campus access you will need to use VPN: https://web.library.yale.edu/help/off-campus-access-vpn Welcome Yale University Library provides access to streaming video in multi-disciplinary and subject specific video collections and part of multi-format collections. Some streaming video content is owned and other content is leased on an annual basis. This guide includes streaming video content that can be viewed on and off campus and embedded into Canvas. Arts & Humanities Streaming Video Collections STEM & Social Science Streaming Video Collections Multi-Subject Streaming Video Collections Academic Video Online (Alexander Street) Provides access to thousands of video titles on the arts, humanities, science, and social sciences. The formats include documentaries, interviews, performances, news programs and newsreels, field recordings, commercials, raw footage, and award-winning films, all with accompanying transcripts. Collection highlights include: BBC, PBS, Sony Pictures Classics, Filmakers Library. Digital Campus (Swank) Includes films from major Hollywood studios as well as international features. Our subscription provides access to the top 1,000 most-requested videos on the platform. Digitalia Film Library An international collection of primarily Spanish and Portuguese language streaming feature films, television series, and documentaries in the original language, some available dubbed into English or with English subtitles. Docuseek3 Provides streaming access to documentary and social issue films and videos from a variety of distributors, including Bullfrog, Icarus Films, and National Film Board of Canada. Film Platform Collection of streaming documentary films from across the world for an academic audience. Films cover various topics of social, political and cultural importance. Films On Demand A collection of streaming videos from a variety of producers including California Newsreel, PBS, the BBC, National Geographic, Films for the Humanities & Sciences, and more. Includes over 35,000 videos covering a wide range of topics organized by broad subject area, as well as feature films in the world cinema collection Kanopy Streaming video service offering international narrative films and documentaries across diverse subjects and disciplines. Includes 540 films from the Criterion Collection. Films are licensed individually by request for a one-year period, for academic use only. NOTE TO FACULTY: If you are including a Kanopy title in your course, it is strongly advised that you submit a Course Reserve request via Canvas. Kanopy titles are licensed for one year, but the expiration date does not appear on the record; thus a film you access today may expire tomorrow. The only way to ensure that the film will be available for the duration of your course is to submit the Course Reserve form. https://guides.library.yale.edu/reserves/canvas Contact michael.kerbel@yale.edu with any questions. Kanopy Features: Enabling Closed Captions, Subtitles, and Transcripts Creating Clips and Playlists A clip is a shortened excerpt, or cut, of a video. A playlist is a set of different clips or films that are curated and collated together into a single URL with the intention of being viewed together. Contact Us Michael Kerbel Director, Yale Film Archive Email: michael.kerbel@yale.edu Streaming Video Requests Course Reserves Faculty seeking streaming video for courses should submit their requests through Canvas. Purchase Request Form Users should submit non-course related streaming video requests using the online purchase request form. Training Online Learning Online training library offers access to training sessions in streaming video covering a variety of software products and digital technologies. Next: Arts & Humanities Video Collections >> Last Updated: Apr 17, 2022 4:08 PM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/streamingvideo Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Art and History of Art, Drama and Theater Studies, Film Studies, History, Science, General Tags: Streaming Video Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility