Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Research Support and Library Services About the Library Access to Collections, Borrowing, & Use Search this Guide Search About the Library: Access to Collections, Borrowing, & Use About Home Strategic Directions Community Values Prizes PoliciesToggle Dropdown Access to Collections, Borrowing, & Use E-Resources Access and Use Patron Records Publisher Take-Down Notices Presentations on Vendor Products Statement on Harmful Language in Archival Description Use of Library Spaces Library Committees Collection Development General Terms Governing Use of Materials The Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. Through its web sites, the Library offers public access to a range of its collections through online exhibitions, archival finding aids, digital repositories, and the online public access catalog. For information on appropriate uses of our licensed electronic resources, please see E-Resources Access and Use policy. Yale University provides access to these materials for educational and research purposes only. The Library endeavors when possible to provide accurate factual information about copyright owners and related matters in catalog records, finding aids, and other texts that accompany collections or individual items that may assist you in making necessary legal determinations. Please contact useofmaterials@yale.edu if you have helpful information about any material included in these collections or if you believe the web site has not properly attributed your work or has used your material without necessary authorization. Access to Collections, Borrowing, and Use Access to Collections and Borrowing Borrower Responsibilities E-Resources Access and Use Fines and Blocked Accounts Notices to Borrowers Reusing Material Yale University Policy-Open Access to Digital Representations of Works in the Public Domain from Museum, Library, and Archive Collections (2011) Return to All Policies Borrower Responsibilities Borrowers are responsible for library materials charged out to them until they are received by the library. Borrowers are prohibited by Library policy from lending their library card to others. Borrowers are prohibited by Library policy from borrowing library materials for another person. Faculty members may have a proxy charge materials to their account. Please contact the Privileges Office for more information. Yale University students, faculty and staff are responsible for maintaining current contact information with their School’s Registrar or Departmental Business Office. Non-Yale library cardholders are responsible for maintaining current contact information in My Account and upon renewal of library privileges. Borrowers who abuse Library borrowing privileges may have their privileges suspended throughout the Yale University Library. Examples of abuse of library borrowing privileges include but are not limited to delinquency in returning materials by stated due dates, NOT paying replacement bills, NOT responding to recall notices, returning library materials even after replacement bills have been issued, and mutilation or damage of library materials. Fines, replacement fees and processing fees are regularly assessed for late materials. More information is available on fines and blocks on patron accounts. Fines and Blocked Accounts It is the responsibility of the borrower to return or renew an item by the due date. All library cardholders may be assessed fines for various reasons, including books returned late. For details, please refer to the Borrowing and Circulation Guide. There are maximum numbers of materials that can be borrowed and fines. Once a maximum is reached or a recalled item is not returned the library may block borrowing privileges. For details, please refer to the Borrowing and Circulation Guide. If you have a question about a fine or blocked account, please contact the Privileges Office at askyalelibrary@yale.edu or by phone (203) 432-1775. Notices to Borrowers You will receive item available, recall (new due date), overdue notices, and fine/fee billing notices via e-mail from library.notices@yale.edu. These notices are sent as a courtesy. We encourage all library users to check their library accounts regularly to manage recalls and due dates. Yale University faculty, staff and students with Yale IDs: If you have a new email address, be sure to update your information with your department administrative or business office. Users with Library-issued IDs: Update your email address with the Privileges Office. Reusing Material Yale University makes no warranty that your distribution, reproduction or other use of these materials will be non-infringing. You are solely responsible for making legal assessments regarding the use of an item and securing any necessary permissions. The written permission of the copyright owners and/or holders of other rights (such as publicity and/or privacy rights) is required for distribution, reproduction, or other use of protected items beyond that allowed by fair use or other statutory exemptions. Email copyright.librarian@yale.edu or specific collections for additional assistance. All Other Libraries Beinecke Rare Books & Manuscript Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library | askyalemedicallibrary@yale.edu | Medical Historical Library Divinity Library Manuscripts and Archives Contact Privileges Staff Contact Send questions to Sterling Memorial Library Services at: Phone: (203) 432-1775 E-mail: askyalelibrary@yale.edu Location The Library Service desk is located on the ground floor of Sterling Memorial Library in the nave and is open during normal library hours. Visitor Library Privileges Hours Academic Year Monday-Thursday: 8:30AM-6PM Friday: 8:30AM-4:45PM Saturday: 10AM-4:45PM Sunday: 12noon-6PM Please review weekly hours before planning your visit. Reusing Material Beinecke Rare Books & Manuscript Library Permission to Publish Materials Held in Library Collections (for most Yale University Library collections) All Other Libraries Manuscripts and Archives Divinity Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Get Help Help is available Monday to Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Email: askyalelibrary@yale.edu Call: (203) 432-1775 Text: (203) 826-2053 << Previous: Policies Next: E-Resources Access and Use >> Last Updated: Feb 16, 2022 5:29 PM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/about Print Page Login to LibApps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility