Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Design - Frances Loeb Library Special Collections: Visual Collections at the Frances Loeb Library Digital Images Special Collections: Visual Collections at the Frances Loeb Library The Visual Collections, housed in the Frances Loeb Library's Special Collections, consists of both image and video. This guide goes beyond the collections of the Frances Loeb Library to highlight additional online media resources. Table of Contents Digital Images Plan Your Research Visit Harvard Collections Featured Loeb Library Visual Collections E-Resources at Harvard for Digital Images Other Digital Image Sources Video Open Access Media 35mm Slides Images in Periodicals & Books Primary Sources Publishing & Copyright About Visual Collections Need Help? Be in Touch. Ask a Design Librarian Call 617-495-9163 Research Consultations Library Hours Remember Copyright The rights to most images are owned by individuals or organizations. If possible, contact the copyright holder directly for permission to use images. Learn more about Publishing & Copyright. Plan Your Research Visit Information about accessing the Frances Loeb Library Special Collections can be found in our Plan Your Research Visit guide. Harvard Collections HOLLIS Images HOLLIS Images is the Harvard Library's dedicated image catalog. It includes content from archives, museums, libraries, and other collections throughout Harvard University. Access to the catalog is open to the general public. Some images are restricted to the Harvard community; HarvardKey login required for access to restricted images. Hollis Images Search Tips Hollis Images is the catalog where images from all 73 Harvard libraries can be found. Follow the tips provided on this page for some useful information on how to use the catalog. Harvard Library Digital Collections Harvard Digital Collections provides free, public access to over 6 million objects digitized from our collections - from ancient art to modern manuscripts and audio visual materials. Featured Loeb Library Visual Collections Aerial Photos International, Inc. The Frances Loeb Library holds a collection of 150,000 aerial photographs from Aerial Photos International Inc. (API) a Norwood, Massachusetts-based company founded in 1953 by Malcolm Woronoff. The images taken by API (1953-2002) offer researchers and scholars an unprecedented opportunity to study the growth of the Boston metropolitan area and eastern Massachusetts during the mid- to late 20th century. Researchers and scholars from multiple disciplines such as history, social sciences, cultural history, sociology, geography, and the art and design fields will make use of the images as primary source material documenting changing landscape and cityscape, evolving infrastructure, building/development trends, and population growth. A portion of the collection has been digitized and is made available through HOLLIS Images.  American Landscape and Architectural Design, 1850-1920: A Study Collection Consisting of nearly 3,000 lantern slide images assembled to support teaching and student presentations in the fields of architecture, landscape architecture, and urban planning, this collection at the Harvard Graduate School of Design’s Frances Loeb Library represents a historical view of American buildings and landscapes built during the period of 1850-1920. The collection offers views of cities, specific buildings, parks, estates and gardens, including a complete history of Boston's Park System. Among the architects and landscape architects whose work is included in the collection are Marian Cruger Coffin, Ralph Adams Cram, Cass Gilbert, H.H. Richardson, Louis Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Frederick Law Olmsted, both Senior and Junior. This collection’s digitization was part of the Library of Congress’ American Memory Project. The link above provides the HOLLIS Images search results set of over 1,000 work records that contain the individual image records Alex S. MacLean Photograph Collection (HarvardKey Required) Added to the Frances Loeb Library collections in 2011, this small collection of Alex MacLean’s work includes over 2,000 aerial photographs, taken between 1967 and 2006, features coverage of Boston and surrounding Massachusetts towns and cities, Providence, Rhode Island, and Washington, D.C. “Pilot and photographer, Alex MacLean, has flown his plane over much of the United States documenting the landscape. Trained as an architect, he has portrayed the history and evolution of the land from vast agricultural patterns to city grids, recording changes brought about by human intervention and natural processes. His powerful and descriptive images provide clues to understanding the relationship between the natural and constructed environments.” – alexmaclean.com E-Resources at Harvard for Digital Images ARTstor (HarvardKey Required) The ARTstor Digital Library is a nonprofit resource that provides over 1.5 million digital images in the arts, architecture, humanities, and sciences. The community-built collections comprise contributions from international museums, photographers, libraries, scholars, photo archives, and artists and artists' estates. Limit searches to the Harvard University Study Collection of Digital Images to find digital images from the GSD's Visual Collections and the Fine Arts Library's Teaching Collection. more... less... ARTstor is a not-for-profit organization funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation whose purpose is to develop a database of digital images and accompanying scholarly information for use in art history and other humanistic fields of learning, including the related social sciences. The ARTstor Digital Library includes approximately 300,000 images covering art, architecture, and archeology. Pidgeon Digital Pidgeon Digital is the online version of The Pidgeon Audiovisual collection of illustrated talks by architects and related designers. This continuing archive, to which new talks are being added regularly, is a unique library of contemporary attitudes which will become of priceless value to future generations. The collection was founded in 1979 by Monica Pidgeon (long-time editor of the influential magazine Architectural Design) so as to be able to hear the actual voices of the designers of buildings and listen to their ideas. more... less... Pidgeon Digital is the online version of The Pidgeon Audiovisual collection of illustrated talks by architects and related designers. This continuing archive, to which new talks are being added regularly, is a unique library of contemporary attitudes which will become of priceless value to future generations.##The collection was founded in 1979 by Monica Pidgeon (long-time editor of the influential magazine Architectural Design) so as to be able to hear the actual voices of the designers of buildings and listen to their ideas. Other Digital Image Sources AP Images (HarvardKey Required) Online access to over 500,000 photos with detailed captions from the AP news wire. Includes all photos from US and abroad added in the previous 365 days (800 per day) plus many selected historical photos from 1844 to the present. CC Search CC Search searches across more than 300 million images from open APIs and the Common Crawl dataset. It goes beyond simple search to aggregate results across multiple public repositories into a single catalog, and facilitates reuse through features like machine-generated tags and one-click attribution. Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) The Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) contains metadata records —information describing an item —for millions of photographs, manuscripts, books, sounds, moving images, and more from libraries, archives, and museums around the United States. Each record links to the original object on the content provider’s website. The DPLA brings together the riches of America’s libraries, archives, and museums, and makes them freely available to the world. It strives to contain the full breadth of human expression, from the written word, to works of art and culture, to records of America’s heritage, to the efforts and data of science. The DPLA aims to expand this crucial realm of openly available materials, and make those riches more easily discovered and more widely usable and used. Google Images Google Images makes it easy to find the images you want in no time. Use an image you already have or type in the search box to find relevant images from across the web. Iwan Baan Dutch photographer Iwan Baan is known primarily for images that narrate the life and interactions that occur within architecture. Iwan collaborates with the world's foremost architects, photographing institutional, public and private projects by Rem Koolhaas, Herzog & de Meuron, SANAA, Morphosis, Frank Gehry, Toyo Ito, Steven Holl, Diller Scofidio + Renfro and Zaha Hadid, and young architects like Sou Fujimoto, Selgas Cano among others. Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Commons (or simply Commons) is an online repository of free-use images, sounds, other media and JSON files. It is a project of the Wikimedia Foundation. Next: Video >> Last Updated: Apr 7, 2022 7:08 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/gsd/visual Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Architecture, Architecture & Design, Landscape Architecture, Urban Planning Tags: 35mm slides, digital images, events, GSD, HOLLIS Images, lantern slides, photographs, primary sources Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy