Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Research Support and Library Services Course Reserves Course Reserves Home Search this Guide Search Course Reserves: Course Reserves Home Course Reserves Home Information for FacultyToggle Dropdown Using Canvas for Reserves Information for Students Contact Reserves Staff Shifting Courses Online Important Copyright Information for Course Reserves Important Copyright Information for Course Reserves As part of Yale‘s effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Library is fulfilling scanning requests as part of a legitimate response to a public health emergency such as this one. If your request is for course materials that will be used by students needing accommodation for print disabilities, please submit that request here and we will work with Student Accessibility Services to deliver an appropriately formatted version. If you do not have students needing accommodation and you have determined the use to favor fair use under U.S. copyright law, you may upload this material yourself and share it with your class through the university’s Canvas learning management portal. If you need the Library to scan this material, please submit your request through Canvas for assistance. Note, however, that we must still ensure that our scanning is feasible, permissible and reasonable in relation to these extraordinary circumstances. Please only request materials where an electronic copy is not available from the Library (and note that the Library may be able to purchase electronic access if it does not currently offer the resource). Please also limit your request to the portions of a given work that are needed for full participation in the course for the duration of the limited student access and/or student dislocation. Scans made during this time may include a special cover page with important copyright information; please include the cover page when you share the scan with students. Please only distribute these scans to students using your course site on Canvas to ensure that access is limited only to those enrolled in the course. Featured Tip Reuse Materials from Previous Semesters Reusing a reserves list from a previous semester is quick and easy. Best of all, your eReserves are available immediately! When adding items to your list, click on "Class Tools" and select "Clone Class." Follow the prompts to select and copy your reserve items forward from previous lists. Import a list from a previous semester in Canvas Getting Started with Course Reserves - Quick Steps Get Started with Course Reserves What is Course Reserves? Yale University Library can provide access to course readings by utilizing the Course Reserves service through Canvas. Items can be placed on Physical Reserve within the library (books, DVDs, etc.), or scans of library materials can be placed online for ease of access (eReserve). If the library does not already have the materials needed for a course reserve request, we can try to purchase them for the library’s collection or faculty can bring in their own copy to place on Reserve. Students can access Reserves materials any time the library is open or 24/7 via eReserve. Faculty Log into Canvas and select "Course Reserves" from the navigation pane on the left side of the webpage. Select your semester from the drop down menu in the center of the page. Then select "Create Course." On the following page, fill in the following information: Instructor Department Class Name Course Number Section Number (optional) Class Semester Pickup Location Class Description (optional) Click "Create Class" On the following page, you will see a list of all of your upcoming courses. Select the "Course Home" link for the course you want to add items to. Under the “Class Tools” dropdown, click "Add reserves items now" to request materials for course reserves. There are three options: Article or Book Chapter (eReserve), Book (Physical Reserve), Audio Visual Item (Film/DVD/CD etc.) More detailed instructions are available in this guide: Using Canvas for Reserves. If you have any questions please contact SML/Bass Reserves or your local reserves unit. Students The "Course Reserves" link in Canvas is the gateway to all materials on reserve. Books and print materials on reserve at all libraries are held at the circulation desk. Some reserve materials at Bass are kept in the general collection. More detailed instructions are available in this guide: Information for Students. Contact Reserves Staff For specific Yale course reserves: Arts Library Email: artslibraryreserves@yale.edu Phone: 203-432-2643 Bass Library Email: reserves@yale.edu Phone: 203-432-1872 Marx Library Email: marxreserves@mailman.yale.edu Phone: 203-432-3439 Divinity Library Email: divinity.reserves@yale.edu Phone: 203-432-5288 Yale Film Archive Email: yfareserves@yale.edu Phone: 203-432-0149 Medical Library Email: cwmlreserves@yale.edu Music Library Email: suzanne.lovejoy@yale.edu Phone: 203-432-5549 Get Help Help is available Monday to Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Email: askyalelibrary@yale.edu Call: (203) 432-1775 Text: (203) 826-2053 Chat with us! Warning of Copyright Restrictions WARNING OF COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS1 The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, U.S. Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of the copyright materials. Under certain conditions specified in the law, library and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be “used for any purpose other than in private study, scholarship, or research.” If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of “fair use,” that user may be liable for copyright infringement. The Yale University Library reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order, if, in its judgement fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. 1 37 C.F.R. §201.14 Next: Information for Faculty >> Last Updated: Aug 25, 2021 1:52 PM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/reserves Print Page Login to LibApps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility