Skip to Main Content Toggle navigation HOLLIS Journals Databases All Library Hours Harvard Library Research Guides Faculty of Arts & Sciences Libraries Artists' Books Home Artists' Books Guide to the artists' book collection in the Fine Arts Library Table of Contents Home About Artists' Books Selected Books by Artists: A-KToggle Dropdown Carol June Barton Marcel Broodthaers Daniel Buren Don Celender Julie Chen Maureen Cummins Laura Davidson Helen Douglas Johanna Drucker Andrea Evans Hans-Peter Feldmann Ian Hamilton Finlay Brad Freeman Gilbert & George Karl Gerstner Sharon Gilbert Coco Gordon Paul Heimbach Dick Higgins Charles Hobson Douglas Huebler Susan E. King Alison Knowles Selected Books by Artists: L-ZToggle Dropdown Sol Lewitt Richard Long Angela Lorenz Joan Lyons Mike Mandel Scott McCarney Clifton Meador Lise Melhorn-Boe Louise Odes Neaderland Kevin Osborn Adrian Piper Marilyn R. Rosenberg Dieter Roth Edward Ruscha Takako Saito Clarissa T. Sligh Michael Snow Telfer Stokes Ulrike Stoltz Erica Van Horn Lawrence Weiner Philip Zimmermann Janet Zweig Selected Books by FormatToggle Dropdown Accordion Broadsides/Posters Book Objects/Unusual Structures Collage Dos-à-Dos Cards Cut-out Books Flip Books Folded Books Folio Miniature Photography Pop-up Tunnel Typography/Calligraphy Selected Books by ContentToggle Dropdown Alphabet Books Artists' Magazines Books/Reading Food Injustice LGBTQ Memoirs Nature Poetry/Visual Poetry Portraits Religion/Spirituality War and Peace Women Art Librarian Jessica Evans Brady Email Me Contact: Fine Arts Library, Littauer Center 617-496-1503 Website Welcome Nicole Morello, Fleurs à effeuiller, 2000. This guide is intended to introduce the collection of artists' books from the Fine Arts Library, including a few selections found in the Houghton Library. It provides access to selected artists' books and introductory publications in our collection as well as external links to online journals, blogs, and other resources. Users may explore our holdings by artist, format, or content in order to learn more about the unique world of book art! This guide was created in a collaboration between Amanda Bowen and Sienna MacArthur. About Our Collection Artists’ books are art works created in a wide variety of print media and issued in all types of book formats. Artists’ books have been an important part of the Library’s collections since the 1960s. Our collection features works from artists such as Lawrence Weiner, Piero Manzoni, Hanne Darboven, the German collaborative Unica T, Ed Ruscha and Rebecca Horn. We collect parodies like Joe Zane's versions of Parkett and artists’ magazines like Scott Hug's K48. We have a strong selection of gay and feminist artists’ books as well as books created by artists associated with Lettrism and Fluxus. These items run the entire range of artistic expression from the abstract and the conceptual to the personal and the political and originate from all over the U.S. and Europe. Our artists’ books are cataloged in HOLLIS. Houghton Library also collects artist’s books and these may also be found in HOLLIS. Harvard Fine Arts Library The Fine Arts Library is the primary resource for the study of the history of art and related disciplines at Harvard University. The library provides scholars with access to an exceptional variety of printed materials, visual images, and special collections. Hours & Location Visiting Special Collections Next: About Artists' Books >> Last Updated: Apr 26, 2019 10:31 AM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/artistsbooks Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Art Tags: 20th century, 21st century, art, art history, artists' books, book art, book objects, book structure, books, collage, photography, pictures, reading Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy