Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Harvard Library Research Guides Countway Library – Health Sciences Scholarly Communication and Open Science Initiatives Recent Harvard Publications Search this Guide Search Scholarly Communication and Open Science Initiatives Countway Library Services and Support for Scholarly Publishing, Open Science, and Public Access Policies. Scholarly Communication NIH Public Access Policy Research Data Management Recent Harvard Publications Contact Us Paper Chase Recent scientific publications authored by HMS, HSDM and HSPH faculty, trainees, and students Citations below are generated from PubMed in real time to reflect the most recent publications authored by faculty, trainees, and students at Harvard Medical School and its affiliated hospitals, the Harvard School of Dental Medicine, and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. (Note: Authors who do not list their HMS or Harvard affiliation in the original publication may be omitted inadvertently) The list includes research papers, reviews, commentaries, perspectives, and opinion pieces published in peer-reviewed journals indexed in PubMed. (Pre-prints reporting Covid-19 research supported by NIH funding are also included.) [In addition to the most recent publications listed below, you can view the entire results list on PubMed, and apply any additional filters—by institution/hospital, author, topic, etc.] Loading ... << Previous: Research Data Management Next: Contact Us >> Last Updated: Dec 16, 2021 1:13 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/scholcomm Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Copyright, Statistics & Data Tags: APC, creative commons, NIHMS, PMCID, RDM Countway Library 10 Shattuck St, Boston MA 02115 | (617) 432-2136 Harvard Library | Privacy Policy | Harvard Digital Accessibility Policy Copyright © 2020 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.