Skip to Main Content For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Research Guides Evaluating Information Scholarly Sources News Sources Social Media Web Sources Data & Statistics Fake News Detecting Bias in the News What are Scholarly, Popular, & Trade Publications? Internet Domains Making Sense of the News display Home Start Your Research Research Guides University of Washington Libraries Library Guides UW Libraries Savvy Info Consumers Evaluating Information Savvy Info Consumers: Evaluating Information Savvy info consumers evaluate sources before citing, posting, or tweeting them... Not all information is created equal. Remember: Anyone with Internet access can publish on the Web. There is no editor, fact checker, or peer review process for the "free" content that is available on the visible web. As scholars and information consumers, you must choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. This guide provides four strategies for being a Savvy Information Consumer: Perform the TRAAP test Perform the SMART Check Perform the SIFT test Ask the 5 W Questions Reliability Rating How do your sources rate on the Reliability scale? This scale provides a general assessment on the reliability of a source type. RED: Be wary, these sources run the gamut from news-sponsored material to complete fabrications, use one of the evaluation tools to check the credibility of the source. YELLOW: Be critical, these sources generally follow professional ethical standards but will vary on the partisan continuum. GREEN: Be thoughtful, these sources undergo a fairly stringent editorial and peer-review process but quality can vary. Crash Course Navigating Digital Information 10-part video series #2 Facts about Fact Checking #3 Check Yourself with Lateral Reading #4 Who Can You Trust? #5 Using Wikipedia #6 Evaluating Evidence #7 Evaluating Photos & Videos #8 Data & Infographics #9 Click Restraint #10 Social Media Questions or Comments about this guide? Contact Jessica Albano, UW Communication Studies & News Librarian, or Theresa Mudrock, UW History Librarian. Next: Scholarly Sources >> Last Updated: Oct 5, 2020 11:11 PM URL: https://guides.lib.uw.edu/research/evaluate Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Subjects: News University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.