CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Cultural Anthropology: Getting Started This guide provides resources for your cultural anthropological research Getting Started Find Articles Find Primary Sources Find Other ResourcesToggle Dropdown E-Books Find Films Data & Statistics Citation Management Research Handout General Library alerts for COVID-19 Library Hours Borrowing privileges Course Reserves Reserve Study Space Visitors Getting Materials If we don't have a resource you need: Books from the Health Science Library Borrow Direct enables you to borrow books directly from other university libraries if the book you need is unavailable or is not owned by Columbia University. Interlibrary Loan is the service to for getting journal articles and book chapters scanned and emailed to you. Recommend a title for purchase Streaming Content See the Streaming Video Research Guide for more resources Ethnographic video online and anthropology online Linked-In Learning (formerly Lynda.com) PBS video collection. How to Find Use CLIO, the libraries' primary search interface to find: books, databases, journals, newspapers, and DVDs. For guidance about finding scholarly articles go to the "Find Articles" tab. For Anthropology students, one way to find books is to consult Reviews in Anthropology, the only anthropological journal devoted to lengthy, in-depth review commentary on recently published books. Other Catalogs that may be helpful: EDUCAT the online catalog of the Milbank Memorial Library of Teachers College. Contains records for all materials cataloged since 1975, except current periodicals; selected educational materials published between 1900-1960; the Adelaide Nutting History of Nursing Collection; the American Curriculum Collection; the David Eugene Smith Collection in Mathematics Education. Pegasus : catalog of the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library: Online catalog of the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library of the Columbia University School of Law. Contains U.S. federal and state law, selected commonwealth jurisdictions, major foreign language collections (e.g., the legal literature of Germany, France, Italy and Argentina) and, since 1983, vernacular and Western language materials pertaining to law in Japan and the People's Republic of China. WorldCat: Contains over 48 million records, covering all materials cataloged by OCLC member libraries around the world. Don't Forget As a Columbia University student you have access to several magazines and newspapers: The Atlantic Financial Times New York Times: We recommend you use the ProQuest for PDFs, and use Factiva for international news, web exclusive topics, morning & evening versions. The New Yorker Washington Post Wall Street Journal And more, check CLIO Other Guides & Tools African Diaspora & African Literatures Anthropology of Contemporary Italy Research Guide Data & Statistics Research Guide Global Studies Division Physical Anthropology & Primatology Research Guide Sociology Research Guide Urban Policy Research Guide Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies Research Guide Research Support Ask a Librarian: From 10 am to 5 pm Monday through Friday you can use the virtual reference service. A librarian will answer any questions you have in real time! Schedule a Research Consultation with a librarian Find a subject specialist Visit the library research support page for more resources Library Next: Find Articles >> Last Updated: Sep 4, 2021 10:23 AM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/anthropology Print Page Login to LibApps. CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.