Skip to Main Content Harvard Library Research Guides Harvard Graduate School of Design - Frances Loeb Library Special Collections: Materials Collection at the Frances Loeb Library Start Materials Research Special Collections: Materials Collection at the Frances Loeb Library The GSD Materials Collection, housed in the Frances Loeb Library's Special Collections, is a collection of material samples. This guide goes beyond the collections of the Frances Loeb Library to highlight additional material research resources. Table of Contents Start Materials Research Plan Your Research Visit GSD Materials Collection GSD Materials Collection Primer Key E-Resources Materials Research Areas Academic Materials Collections Design-focused Materials Databases Materials Research at Harvard About the Materials Collection Need Help? Be in Touch. Ask a Design Librarian Call 617-495-9163 Research Consultations Library Hours Plan Your Research Visit Information about accessing the Frances Loeb Library Special Collections can be found in our Plan Your Research Visit guide. GSD Materials Collection Material Order SEARCH Material Order SEARCH is the collaborative online materials catalog that currently searches the materials collections of the Harvard Graduate School of Design, Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), and Columbia University GSAPP Preservation Technology Lab (Avery Library). Material Order SEARCH [GSD Materials Collection] Limit search to the GSD Materials Collection. Material Order SEARCH: An Introduction (Video) This video provides an introduction to Material Order SEARCH, and shows viewers how to conduct a basic search and understand search results. Material Order SEARCH: Advanced Searching with Filters (Video) This video provides information about conducting more specific, advanced searches using filters. GSD Materials Collection Primer GSD Materials Collection Primer The primer serves as an introduction for students investigating material topics in design and describes the organizational structure of the Materials Collection at the Harvard University Graduate School of Design (GSD). Basic material terms and definitions provide a point of departure for students seeking more advanced resources. Key E-Resources Granta EduPack (HarvardKey Required) Licensed by the Frances Loeb Library, Granta EduPack, formerly CES EduPack, provides a comprehensive database of materials and process information, powerful materials software tools, and a range of supporting resources: textbooks, lectures, projects, and exercises. It is an application that requires installation on a researcher's personal computer. Installation instructions provided via resource link. Next: Materials Research Areas >> Last Updated: Feb 23, 2022 5:09 PM URL: https://guides.library.harvard.edu/gsd/materials Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Architecture, Architecture & Design, Landscape Architecture, Urban Planning Tags: GSD, materials, research Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy