CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News International & Public Affairs Research Guide: Getting Started This research guide identifies some of the major databases and library services that support research at the School of International Affairs at Columbia University. Getting Started Find Articles Find Other ResourcesToggle Dropdown Find EBooks Find Data & Statistics Find Health Policy Legislation Find Government Information All U.S. Government Databases at Columbia Citation Management Research Handout General Information Library alerts for COVID-19 Check hours of our libraries, departments and services. Borrowing privileges Course Reserves Reserve Study Space Visitors Getting Materials If we don't have a resource you need: Books from the Health Science Library Borrow Direct enables you to borrow books directly from other university libraries if the book you need is unavailable or is not owned by Columbia University. Interlibrary Loan is the service to for getting journal articles and book chapters scanned and emailed to you. Recommend a title for purchase Streaming Videos See the Streaming Video Research Guide for more resources 60 Minutes: 1997-2014, Provides streaming video access to the 60 Minutes news show archive for the third and fourth decades of this long-running show, plus segments from the CBS News program Sunday Morning. PBS video collection. How to Find Use CLIO, the libraries' primary search interface to find: books, databases, journals, newspapers, and DVDs. For guidance about finding scholarly articles go to the "Find Articles" tab. Don't forget that these other catalogs may be helpful for certain subjects: EDUCAT the online catalog of the Milbank Memorial Library of Teachers College. Contains records for all materials cataloged since 1975, except current periodicals; selected educational materials published between 1900-1960; the Adelaide Nutting History of Nursing Collection; the American Curriculum Collection; the David Eugene Smith Collection in Mathematics Education. Pegasus : catalog of the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library. the online catalog of the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library of the Columbia University School of Law. Contains U.S. federal and state law, selected commonwealth jurisdictions, major foreign language collections (e.g., the legal literature of Germany, France, Italy and Argentina) and, since 1983, vernacular and Western language materials pertaining to law in Japan and the People's Republic of China. WorldCat. Contains over 48 million records, covering all materials cataloged by OCLC member libraries around the world. Research Support Librarians are available to assist you with research support in person. You can email the librarian any time to schedule a in-person research consultation. From 9am to 8pm Monday through Friday you can use the virtual reference Ask a Librarian. A librarian will answer any questions you have in real time! Other Guides & Tools Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War & Peace Studies Research Guide Data & Statistics Research Guide Environmental & Energy Research Guide Gender in Policy & International Affairs Research Guide Global Studies Division Government Information resources International Conflict Resolution, Military Affairs, & Security Linked-In Learning (formerly Lynda.com) Population, Migration and Refugee Studies Sociology Research Guide Software and Tools Master List Sustainability Policy Studies Research Guide Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies Research Guide Don't Forget As a Columbia University student you have access to several newspapers: Financial Times New York Times: We recommend you use the ProQuest for PDFs, and use Factiva for international news, web exclusive topics, morning & evening versions. The New Yorker Washington Post Wall Street Journal and Directions in case you get stuck And more, check CLIO Library Next: Find Articles >> Last Updated: Dec 10, 2021 2:13 PM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/INAF Print Page Login to LibApps. CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.