Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 library updates.. Yale University Library Yale University Library Yale University Library Research Guides Research Support and Library Services Get it @ Yale Interlibrary Loan Search this Guide Search Get it @ Yale: Interlibrary Loan Get It @Yale Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Scan and Deliver Mail to Address Service Information for CT Libraries Contact Resource Sharing Quick View What is it? A free service for borrowing material not owned at Yale. When do I use it? After trying Yale collections and Borrow Direct. Who can use it? Current students, faculty, staff, fellows, post-docs, and alumni who have purchased library privileges. How long does it take? Depends on availability. Average turn around for an article request is 2-4 days and for a loan request is 9-12 days. How long can I keep materials? Determined by the lending library and may be recalled. Get Started! Request from Interlibrary Loan Articles+ more... less... ILL works best when you start from a record with the information needed. Articles+ works well for articles. Worldcat more... less... ILL requests will work best if you start from a record with information needed for a request. Worldcat works well for books. Medical Library Patrons more... less... Patrons from Medical campus (School of Medicine, Public Health, Nursing, YNHH) use a separate department. Law Library Patrons more... less... Patrons from Yale Law School use a separate department. Interlibrary Loan Borrowing Policies Interlibrary Loan (ILL) is a service that allows Yale (YUL) users to request library materials from institutions all over the world. If a book, journal, dissertation, or other item is not available in the Yale library system or through Borrow Direct then the ILL department will attempt to obtain it from a global network of partner libraries. Interlibrary loan is a service based on cooperation between libraries to share materials. Yale participates in this cooperation as both a lender and a borrower of materials. Yale University Library will attempt to borrow any material another library is willing to lend via interlibrary loan (ILL) Libraries are generally willing to lend circulating materials such as: Books Audio visual materials Music Scores Microforms Libraries will also provide copies (scans) of materials such as: Journal articles Book Chapters YUL will attempt to borrow an item in an alternate format if so requested by the user If an item is owned by YUL, but currently unavailable to the requesting user it may be requested through interlibrary loan Users with fines, billed items, or overdue items recorded on their circulation account will not be allowed to check out interlibrary loan items from a service point Lending libraries may impose limits on materials lent, which YUL will adhere to Textbooks are often in high demand and it may be difficult for YUL to find a library willing to lend a textbook Since ILL loan periods are often short, it would be unlikely a textbook could be borrowed through ILL for an entire semester Newly published materials can be difficult to borrow through interlibrary loan due to availability and lending library policies on new materials Users can request materials to be purchased for the YUL collection via the Purchase Request Form Due dates for interlibrary loan materials will vary from item to item as the lending library establishes the due date Renewals can be requested, but are contingent on the lending library’s response, discretion, and policy Warning of Copyright Restrictions WARNING OF COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS1 The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, U.S. Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of the copyright materials. Under certain conditions specified in the law, library and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be “used for any purpose other than in private study, scholarship, or research.” If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of “fair use,” that user may be liable for copyright infringement. The Yale University Library reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order, if, in its judgement fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. 1 37 C.F.R. §201.14 Contact Get it @Yale Interlibrary Loan - Borrowing (General) smlill@yale.edu Interlibrary Loan - Lending (General) yaleill@yale.edu BorrowDirect borrowdirect@yale.edu Interlibrary Loan - Marx Library marxill@yale.edu Interlibrary Loan - Divinity Library divill@yale.edu Interlibrary Loan - Medical Library docdel@yale.edu Interlibrary Loan - Law Library ill.law@yale.edu Chat with us! Create and Track Orders Check your Orbis account Find status of book deliveries for Borrow Direct more... less... Track due dates, fines, renewals for material from Yale and Borrow Direct. Order scans from Interlibrary Loan/Scan and Deliver Generate a new request for the scan of an article, or check status of a request. more... less... Check on the status of requests. Find and order books in Borrow Direct Search catalog of cooperating libraries and order items. more... less... Also available through the Orbis account, directly check on Borrow Direct history. Get Help Help is available Monday to Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Email: askyalelibrary@yale.edu Call: (203) 432-1775 Text: (203) 826-2053 << Previous: Borrow Direct Next: Scan and Deliver >> Last Updated: Feb 9, 2022 8:16 AM URL: https://guides.library.yale.edu/getit Print Page Login to LibApps Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility