CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Music & Arts Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Social Work Research Guide: Home Home Find Articles - Databases Find Other ResourcesToggle Dropdown All U.S. Government Databases at Columbia Census Information Find Data & Statistics Find EBooks Find Health Policy Legislation Government Information Internet Resources Citation Management Research Handout Decolonizing Social Work To Start Use CLIO, the libraries' primary search interface to find: books, databases, ebooks, journals, newspapers, and DVDs. For guidance about finding scholarly articles go to the articles tab. Access to the DSM-5 is through CLIO: https://clio.columbia.edu/catalog/11100979 General Library Resources Library alerts for COVID-19 Check the hours of our libraries, departments and services. Library Workshops Borrowing privileges Course Reserves Reserve Study Space For Visitors Research Support Librarians are available to assist you with research support in person. You can email the librarian any time to schedule a in-person research consultation. 7 days a week you can use the virtual reference Ask a Librarian. A librarian will answer any questions you have in real time! Getting Materials If we don't have a resource you need: Books from the Health Science Library Borrow Direct enables you to borrow books directly from other university libraries if the book you need is unavailable or is not owned by Columbia University. Interlibrary Loan is the service to for getting journal articles and book chapters scanned and emailed to you. Recommend a title for purchase Other Catalogs EDUCAT the online catalog of the Milbank Memorial Library of Teachers College. Pegasus : catalog of the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library. The online catalog of the Arthur W. Diamond Law Library of the Columbia University School of Law. WorldCat. Contains over 48 million records, covering all materials cataloged by OCLC member libraries around the world. Streaming Materials See the Streaming Video Research Guide for more resources Counseling and therapy in video . Ethnographic video online and anthropology online Linked-In Learning (formerly Lynda.com) PBS video collection. PsychoTherapy.net PsycTHERAPY / American Psychological Association. Sage Video Psychology Sage Video Counseling Sage Video Social Work Don't Forget Don't forget, as a Columbia University student you have access to several newspapers that all live in CLIO: Financial Times New York Times: We recommend you use the ProQuest for PDFs, and use Factiva for: international news, web exclusive, morning & evening versions. The New Yorker Washington Post Wall Street Journal and Directions in case you get stuck And more, check CLIO Other Guides & Tools Comparative Urban Policy Data & Statistics Federal Government (shutdown) Housing Immigration Non-profit Organizations Social Agency Collection Social Explorer Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies Research Guide Library Next: Find Articles - Databases >> Last Updated: Dec 10, 2021 2:13 PM URL: https://guides.library.columbia.edu/SOCW Print Page Login to LibApps. Subjects: Social Sciences, Social Work CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Terms of Service | Contact Us | About Us Etc.