Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation This site is archived and is for reference purposes only Event Galleries for 2021-2022 events Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet President Gutmann More Meet President Gutmann Scholarship More Scholarship Selected Books Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements Event Galleries Penn Compact 2022 More Penn Compact 2022 Inclusion: Increase Access Innovation: Integrate Knowledge Impact: Engage Locally, Nationally, Globally University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency A Tribute to President Gutmann More A Tribute to President Gutmann Opening doors, transforming lives Seizing the present, building the future A global model The future is wide open Toggle Site Search Resources Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Webmail Penn A - Z Penn Directory Offices & Services Penn Home Search Search Close Convocation 2021 “At Penn, thinking creatively and being curious about others, that’s what leads to breakthroughs.” Penn President Amy Gutmann Read More News Highlights Simone Leigh’s Brick House officially dedicated on campus During Homecoming Weekend, President Amy Gutmann celebrated with the Penn community the ‘dazzling,’ ‘daring,’ and ‘dramatic’ sculpture—one that is transformational for the University. Celebrating five years of innovation, entrepreneurship, and creativity Penn Today marks the anniversary of Pennovation Works, the University’s business incubator and laboratory space, with a look at the evolution of the site, its research and commercialization achievements, and a glimpse into the future. Historic move ushers in new era of care at Penn Over eight hours, 310 patients moved to the Pavilion, a 17-story, 1.5-million-square-foot addition to the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania campus. Meshing academics and fun for a summer program like no other An inaugural Projects for Progress award helped bring to light a Penn Graduate School of Education and Netter Center for Community Partnerships initiative that readied young learners returning to in-person school this fall, and boosted teachers’ confidence. Strategic Vision Penn Compact 2022 As engines of knowledge and new ideas, universities have the unique potential to define the future rather than be defined by it; to pioneer change rather than merely manage it. The Penn Compact 2022 motivates community members to innovate, be radically inclusive, and positively impact their local, national, and global communities. President Gutmann in the News Newly appointed Penn President M. Elizabeth Magill welcomed by students and staff Philadelphia Inquirer | 3/4/2022 M. Elizabeth Magill has been officially approved as Penn’s next president. She marked the occasion with a walk through campus, where she was greeted by staff and students. Penn chooses Virginia’s Elizabeth Magill as president Times Higher Education U.K. | 1/13/2022 University of Virginia Provost M. Elizabeth Magill has been nominated to succeed Amy Gutmann as Penn’s president. “From its founding, Penn set its sights on making a difference, and 282 years later the Penn community continues to change the world every day,” Magill said. University of Virginia provost will replace Amy Gutmann as Penn’s next president Philadelphia Inquirer | 1/13/2022 Current University of Virginia provost M. Elizabeth Magill has been nominated to serve as Penn’s next president. “I am humbled and honored by the opportunity to lead the remarkable institution that is the University of Pennsylvania—and to succeed Dr. Amy Gutmann, who has been a visionary and innovative leader,” Magill said in a statement. Joe Biden is sending an academic to Germany. Here’s why it might pay off The Washington Post | 7/7/2021 An op-ed by Elisabeth Piller, a German professor, considered the long-standing tradition of sending U.S. scholars and university presidents to Germany as ambassadors. Amy Gutmann’s “standing as an esteemed political philosopher and university president uniquely positions her to help achieve Biden’s goal of rebuilding alliances,” Piller wrote. Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000