Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation This site is archived and is for reference purposes only Event Galleries for 2021-2022 events Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet President Gutmann More Meet President Gutmann Scholarship More Scholarship Selected Books Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements Event Galleries Penn Compact 2022 More Penn Compact 2022 Inclusion: Increase Access Innovation: Integrate Knowledge Impact: Engage Locally, Nationally, Globally University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency A Tribute to President Gutmann More A Tribute to President Gutmann Opening doors, transforming lives Seizing the present, building the future A global model The future is wide open Toggle Site Search Resources Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Webmail Penn A - Z Penn Directory Offices & Services Penn Home Search Search Close Inspiring people, place, and purpose Penn President Amy Gutmann’s record tenure of nearly 18 years is the University’s most transformative. Amy Gutmann’s lifelong dedication to the transformative power of education is captured in a favorite riddle. “What’s the difference between a scrap metal dealer and an Ivy League university president?” she’ll sometimes ask an audience. Her answer comes straight from the heart: “One generation.” That scrap metal dealer was Gutmann’s father, who fled Nazi Germany, eventually emigrating to the United States. Hard work and need-based scholarships enabled his daughter to access a world-class education which, says Gutmann, “utterly transformed my life. It made educational opportunity the driving force and the absolute defining mission of my life.” Beginning in 2004 as the University of Pennsylvania’s eighth president, Gutmann immediately set about growing student financial support and bolstering inclusion, innovation, and impact as cornerstones of her strategic vision, which she named the Penn Compact. That concept, holding true after her honorable departure from Penn in February 2022 to become the next U.S. ambassador to Germany, expresses and guides the commitment of a world-class urban research and teaching University to improve the lives of individuals and communities, locally, nationally, and globally. Inspiring people, place, and purpose Exploring President Amy Gutmann’s Transformative Tenure at Penn Opening doors, transforming lives Extraordinary affordability and access Seizing the present, building the future Game-changing innovation and inclusion A global model Building a preeminent campus and empowering community The future is wide open A revolutionary University leading for good Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000