Skip to main content Museum admission is free galleries opening 11AM Tuesday Main navigation Art & Ideas Toggle Art & Ideas section Art & Ideas Exhibitions Public Programs Collections Artist Initiatives Explore Online Academic Programs K-12 & Families Visit Toggle Visit section Visit Plan Your Visit Restaurant Store Support Toggle Support section Support Donate Membership Patron Groups Corporate Partnerships Hammer Editions Fundraising Events Museum Transformation Hammer Channel Toggle Hammer Channel section Watch 1,000+ talks, performances, artist profiles, and more. Go to Hammer Channel Search Submit search Menu Secondary navigation Art & Ideas Exhibitions Public Programs Collections Artist Initiatives Explore Online Academic Programs K-12 & Families Visit Plan Your Visit Restaurant Store Support Donate Membership Patron Groups Corporate Partnerships Hammer Editions Fundraising Events Museum Transformation Hammer Channel About Us Employment Press Privacy Policy Terms of use The Hammer Museum at UCLA believes in the promise of art and ideas to illuminate our lives and build a more just world. A Decade of Acquisitions of Works on Paper – Part II MAY 22–AUG 28, 2022 The second presentation in the Hammer's works on paper gallery includes prints, drawings, and photography-based works by artists such as Robert Gober, Sonia Gomes, Jasper Johns, Nam June Paik, and Barbara T. Smith. Stay in the know with emails from the Hammer. Sign Up On View Andrea Fraser: This meeting is being recorded MAY 22–JUN 19, 2022 U.S. premiere of a performance-based video exploring the processes and formation of race, gender, and age within an intergenerational group of white women. Upcoming Programs Tours & Talks Lunchtime Art Talk on Kiyan Williams WED JUN 1, 12:30 PM Associate curator Erin Christovale leads an in-person discussion of the work of Kiyan Williams, in conjunction with the artist's Hammer Projects exhibition. Special Events ONLINE: Mindful Awareness Meditation THU JUN 2, 12:30 PM The free weekly drop-in sessions are open to all who are interested in learning how to live more presently. Conversations Protecting the Amazon Rainforest: Averting the Ecological Tipping Point THU JUN 2, 7:30 PM A conversation with indigenous leaders, artists, and scientists Coming Soon Hammer Projects: Kiyan Williams May 28–Aug 28, 2022 The first solo museum exhibition for artist Kiyan Williams, an installation of sculptural forms, is a meditation on the notion of the “ruined” body and its potential to transcend and generate new futures. Andrea Bowers Jun 19–Sep 4, 2022 The first museum retrospective surveying more than two decades of Andrea Bowers' production, tracing the entire scope and evolution of her work. Drawing Down the Moon Jun 19–Sep 11, 2022 Drawn primarily from institutional collections in Los Angeles, Drawing Down the Moon leads visitors through a panoply of lunar objects dating from antiquity to the present. Watch on Hammer Channel Conversation Artist talk: Pilar Quinteros Born in Santiago, Chile, the artist Pilar Quinteros lives and works between places. Quinteros uses inexpensive materials to construct ephemeral, site-specific interventions. Reading Geoff Dyer reads from "The Last Days of Roger Federer," May 2022 Celebrated writer Geoff Dyer returns with The Last Days of Roger Federer, an extended meditation on late style and last works. Here Dyer reads from this latest collection, one of Esquire's best of spring 2022. TUNE IN Hammer Channel Watch 1,000+ talks, performances, artist profiles, and more. Search, clip, and share topics ranging from politics and activism to art, film, and literature. Hammer Store Books and products that celebrate fine artistry, excellent design, and exceptional craftsmanship. Restaurant Lulu is the Hammer's new restaurant from David Tanis and Alice Waters. Museum Transformation We are working on a new entrance, more galleries, and an expanded lobby. Join the Hammer Community Follow the Hammer Get the latest news, go behind the scenes, and join the conversation. Follow the Hammer Museum on Facebook Follow the Hammer Museum on Instagram Follow the Hammer Museum on Twitter Get our newsletter Receive updates about programs and exhibitions. Sign Up Become a member Enjoy exclusive access while supporting art and ideas. See Membership LevelsBecome a Member Discussing Social Justice Love Letter #1 Her Dream Deferred Series This series explored the status of black women and girls in the United States, lifting their voices and stories to find solutions to social injustice. Copresented with the African American Policy Forum The Watts Rebellion: 50 Years Later Three historians discuss the past and present of race relations in the United States. Now Dig This!: Art and Black Los Angeles 1960–1980 This digital archive of the 2011–2012 exhibition examines the legacy of African-American artists in L.A., many of whom were connected to civil rights and Black Power movements. “Bad” Feminism Re-watch one of our most popular programs. In October 2016, Roxane Gay, Andi Zeisler, and the Hammer’s Connie Butler discuss the political, social, and cultural relevance of contemporary feminism. Social Justice in Church and State Watch this 2014 program with Sister Simone Campbell who discussed the resurgence of social justice issues in the Catholic Church Image: Charles White, Love Letter #1, 1971. The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Purchase. Photo by Ed Glendinning HAMMER MUSEUM Free for good 10899 Wilshire Blvd. Los Angeles, CA 90024 (310) 443-7000 info@hammer.ucla.edu Gallery Hours Monday: Closed Tuesday–Sunday: 11 a.m.–6 p.m. Restaurant Hours Tuesday–Sunday: 11 a.m.–6 p.m. Art & Ideas Visit Support About Us Employment Press Privacy Policy Terms of Use Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Sign up for email Subscribe © Hammer Museum 2022