Jump to navigation About Our House Harnwell's History Our Namesake Coat of Arms Our Regular Events Lenape Land Acknowledgement People Academic Resources College House Research Fellowship Weingarten Learning Resources Program Communities Ancient Studies Arts House East Asia-House International Program Latin American Program Eco-House: Environmental Program Community Biosciences Community The Muslim Life Residential Program Asian/Asian-American Program Community House Resources & Spaces Harnwell House Office M-10 Classroom M-21 A Cappella Anteroom The Library Small Study Room 103 Large Study Room 102 M-40 Large Music Practice Room M-41 Small Music Practice Room Dance Gallery Rooftop Lounge Policies & Information Harnwell Resources and Polices Collection Boxes Poster and Flyering Policies Happening in Harnwell Room Selection How to Apply Room Types Getting Help Email Us Contact CAPS Maintenance Request Facilities Services Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page About The Photo The House motto "Monstrat Sol Viam", which is Latin for "The sun shows us the way", comes to life in the beautiful ceiling-to-floor student room windows that let in maximum light. About The Photo Welcome to the Harnwell College House! Harnwell houses and supports 7 Program Communities: Ancient Studies, Arts House, Biosciences, Eco-House, Latin American Residential Program, East-Asia House, and International Program. Enjoy our family-style, Monday night, Probasco dinners, House-wide programs, and community engagement events. Harnwellians will benefit from the opportunities given by alumni, faculty, staff, and students to build a greater good. About The Photo Harnwell is named for Penn's famous president, Gaylord P. Harnwell, who guided Penn from 1953 to 1970 during one of its greatest periods of expansion. Today, the House continues that expansive spirit through the Probasco Society, six distinctive and long standing Residential Programs, and its support of the arts—particularly dance and music. Welcome to Harnwell College House Welcome, Harnwellians! We are so excited to welcome you to Harnwell College House. Harnwell is the #bestcollegehouse because YOU make it that way. We are proud of our student-led formal program communities as well as being one of the most warm and welcoming communities on campus—and you’re an essential part of that too! We believe in civic engagement with a focus on local engagement and the environment. We hope you will join us in creating and participating in many programs and opportunities in the house; you can take a role in building a strong community here. We hope you will join for many of the exciting programs our incredible team of RAs (resident assistants), faculty, and staff is planning; stay tuned to your inbox for updates in our weekly Harnwell Sun newsletter and make sure to follow us on Instagram (@harnwellupenn) too! We are very proud of how lively and engaged our building is- whether you’re meeting new friends, engaging with one of our incredible Program Communities, rehearsing for an upcoming performance, or simply enjoying a meal with friends, there are countless ways to experience “home” here. We are very excited to welcome you to Harnwell and build a strong in-person community that prioritizes wellness, engagement, global connections, intellectual curiosity, artistic exploration, and leadership development. Take care, Kent Bream- Faculty Director | Viraj Patel- House Director Adriana Perez – Faculty Fellow | Ivanco Talevski – Faculty Fellow | Laura Seltzer – House Coordinator About Our House Harnwell's History Our Namesake Coat of Arms Our Regular Events Lenape Land Acknowledgement People Academic Resources College House Research Fellowship Weingarten Learning Resources Program Communities Ancient Studies Arts House East Asia-House International Program Latin American Program Eco-House: Environmental Program Community Biosciences Community The Muslim Life Residential Program Asian/Asian-American Program Community House Resources & Spaces Harnwell House Office M-10 Classroom M-21 A Cappella Anteroom The Library Small Study Room 103 Large Study Room 102 M-40 Large Music Practice Room M-41 Small Music Practice Room Dance Gallery Rooftop Lounge Policies & Information Harnwell Resources and Polices Collection Boxes Poster and Flyering Policies Happening in Harnwell Room Selection How to Apply Room Types Getting Help Email Us Contact CAPS Maintenance Request Facilities Services Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Thu 6 Harnwell x Wheel of Fortune! 10/06/2022 - 8:00pm to 10:30pm Harnwell College House Office Phone (215) 573-3497 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact harnwell@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Monday-Friday, 9AM-5PM Saturday-Sunday, CLOSED House Address 3820 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help