Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Harriman Publications Archive As a contribution to scholarly research and public understanding, the Institute sponsors Studies of the Harriman Institute and partners with Columbia University Libraries’ Academic Commons to make the Institute’s publications available to the Harriman community of students and scholars and the public at large. Studies of the Harriman Institute The Institute sponsors the Studies of the Harriman Institute in the belief that their publication contributes to scholarly research and public understanding. In this way the Institute, while not necessarily endorsing their conclusions, is pleased to make available the results of some of the research conducted under its auspices. The first titles in Studies of the Russian Institute (predecessor to Studies of the Harriman Institute) appeared in 1953—pioneering works by Institute professors Abram Bergson and Ernest J. Simmons, as well as the first book by one of the Institute’s early Ph.D. graduates, Edward J. Brown. Today more than 150 titles authored by Institute faculty, visiting scholars, fellows, and alumni have appeared under the Institute’s imprint. Explore the Collection The Soviet Nationality Reader (1992) ed. Rachel Denber Exploring Gogol (1994) Robert A. Maguire Scenarios of Power (2006) Richard Wortman Russian Foreign Policy in the 21st Century & the Shadow of the Past (2007) ed. Robert Legvold The Modernist Masquerade: Stylizing Life, Literature, and Costumes in Russia (2013) Colleen McQuillen Noble Subjects: The Russian Novel and the Gentry, 1762-1861 (2018) Bella Grigoryan View full collection → Available on Academic Commons The Institute is a Featured Partner in Columbia University Libraries’ Academic Commons, which provides global access to research and scholarship produced at Columbia University and its affiliate institutions. Titles are searchable by author, title, and subject. You can search either through the Academic Commons website, or CLIO, the Columbia Libraries’ catalog. Many faculty members, for example, Alexander Cooley and Lynn Garafola, have posted their own work to Academic Commons. Search Academic Commons > Harriman Review (1999-2013) The 1999-2013 archives are available now. More to come. Find copies of Harriman Review > . Culture & Music Symposia Russian Movement Culture of the 1920s and 1930s: A Symposium, organized by Lynn Garafola and Catharine Theimer Nepomnyashchy, and Dancing the Cold War: An International Symposium, organized by Lynn Garafola, are now both available on Academic Commons. At the Harriman Institute (1987-1992) The entire run of meeting report summaries is available for the first time in electronic form. Read reports > Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give