Jump to navigation About Our House People Academic Resources Harrison Reading Community Program Communities Harrison Serves Front Row Theatre and the Arts Community Incubate@Penn Multicultural Exchange Program Community Services & Operations Café Prima Work in Harrison Computer Lab House Office Common Rooms Room Reservations Room Reservation Policies Room Reservation Schedule Reserving Smaller Meeting Rooms Policies & Information House Rules Guest Policy Use of Public Spaces Poster Policy Collection Boxes Room Selection How to Apply Room Layouts Room Types Room Rates & Policies Getting Help Contact Us Important Contact Numbers Technology Support Laundry Issues Facilities Problems Calendar PennKey Login You are here Front Page About The Photo Each Friday at 5pm, we host the Harrison Happy Hour, featuring a new campus performing group or club. Here, Atma shares their award-winning, South Asian fusion a cappella sound. About The Photo Harrison is named for W. Welsh Harrison, Jr., Class of 1904. Through his generous contributions to Penn's student residences, he continued the tradition established by his uncle, Provost Charles Custis Harrison, Class of 1862, who was one of the most prolific builders in Penn's history. About The Photo With first year students starting through its Freshman Experience program, Harrison values the interaction of all four years of classes and students, staff, and faculty in Harrison work to bring the University of Pennsylvania home to all who live in Harrison. Welcome Home Welcome to Harrison College House! Our team is eager to welcome you to campus - some for the first time - for what will hopefully be a year full of new opportunities. We have been busy planning for your arrival and hope that you will check our house calendar for all of our upcoming programs and events. The RAs, along with the Senior Staff, will continue to update the house calendar throughout the year so you can stay informed with the many opportunities you will have to be an active member in our house. Harrison is excited to bring a new meaning to our house motto, non sibi sed toti, translated as "Not for the self, but for everyone." We are a big house with a big heart, and we hope you feel that throughout the year by fully engaging in our shared community. We're proud that you're joining us as the next group of Harrisonians, and we cannot wait to learn more about you. Cheers to a new academic year! See you soon, The Harrison Senior Staff Eric T. Cottrell, House Director Deven M. Patel, Faculty Director Nicola Gentili, College House Fellow Mona Merling, College House Fellow About Our House People Academic Resources Harrison Reading Community Program Communities Harrison Serves Front Row Theatre and the Arts Community Incubate@Penn Multicultural Exchange Program Community Services & Operations Café Prima Work in Harrison Computer Lab House Office Common Rooms Room Reservations Room Reservation Policies Room Reservation Schedule Reserving Smaller Meeting Rooms Policies & Information House Rules Guest Policy Use of Public Spaces Poster Policy Collection Boxes Room Selection How to Apply Room Layouts Room Types Room Rates & Policies Getting Help Contact Us Important Contact Numbers Technology Support Laundry Issues Facilities Problems Calendar PennKey Login PennKey Login Search Thu 15 Harrison Goes to Baltimore Ave Dollar Stroll 09/15/2022 - 5:00pm to 7:00pm Thu 6 Harrison Goes To WHEEL OF FOURTUNE LIVE! 10/06/2022 - 7:15pm to 10:00pm Harrison College House Office Phone (215) 573-3539 In case of an emergency, call Penn Police at (215) 573-3333 or dial 511 from a campus telephone. Office Email Contact harrison@collegehouses.upenn.edu Office Hours Office Hours: Mondays-Fridays, 10 AM- 7 PM Closed for lunch: Noon - 1 PM Summer Hours: During the summer the Harrison Office is open Mondays-Thursdays, 11 AM - 3 PM House Address 3910 Irving Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 View on Map Copyright ©2016 Office of College Houses & Academic Services | Privacy | Disclaimer | Send Feedback | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help