Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Harriman Institute Certificate Program The Harriman Institute sponsors a Certificate Program that students pursue in conjunction with graduate degree programs in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, School of International and Public Affairs, Teachers College, Law School, Journalism School, Business School, School of Public Health, or any other professional school at Columbia University. Enrollment in the Institute’s Certificate Program is contingent upon the candidate’s acceptance into a graduate degree program in the University. Certificate Requirements  Coursework Each student must complete 20 points at the graduate level, approved by a Harriman advisor. These courses must include: Harriman core interdisciplinary colloquium, Legacies of Empire and the Soviet Union (RERS G8445) At least 3 courses in a single discipline. At least 2 additional courses outside this home discipline. When selecting courses, please note the following: All courses on the Harriman Institute Course List qualify for the Certificate. Any graduate-level course in any department or school of the University (including various independent research courses at SIPA) can also qualify with the written pre-approval of a Harriman advisor. In such courses, students must produce an acceptable research paper of direct relevance to Russia, Eurasia, or East-Central Europe. At least two courses must be colloquia or seminars. Language courses do not count towards course requirements. An average grade of B+ or better is required in all courses. Only one credit-bearing internship may be counted toward the Certificate for professional school students; no other coursework, such as an examination, fieldwork, or ‘hands-on’ experience qualifies. By university rules, internships do not count for credit for students enrolled in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. w Language Requirements One relevant language from the Russian, Eurasian, or East European region is required of all students. The students must meet Institute proficiency requirements by earning a B or better in an advanced language course, or by passing a test administered by a Columbia University language instructor. i Certificate Essay All students must submit a Certificate essay, approved by a Harriman advisor and a member of the Harriman faculty. The essay, generally resulting from research undertaken for a seminar or colloquium, must be sponsored by an Institute faculty member. It must be a substantial and original piece of research, interpretation, or analysis, based, at least in part, on primary source materials. f Transfer Credits Only 3 transfer credits (or one course) in a field other than a language may be accepted for Certificate requirements. In order to acquire transfer credits, students must provide a Harriman advisor with a formal request, a copy of their transcript, and, if possible, copies of the relevant syllabus and course work. } Time Constraints Students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences must complete the Certificate within five years after declaring their intent to pursue the Harriman Certificate. Students in the School of International Affairs or in other professional schools must complete the Certificate within three years. Students in joint programs have five years to complete the Certificate. How to Apply Enrollment in the Harriman Institute Certificate Program is contingent upon the candidate’s acceptance into a graduate degree program at Columbia University. Once in a graduate degree program, students are highly encouraged to submit the Harriman Certificate Statement of Intent as early as possible in order to declare their intent to pursue the Certificate. The Statement of Intent is non-binding but must be submitted in order for students to be eligible for Harriman Institute fellowships. Deadlines Intent Form Once in a graduate degree program, students are highly encouraged to submit the Harriman Certificate Statement of Intent as early as possible in order to declare their intent to pursue the Certificate. The Statement of Intent is non-binding, but must be submitted in order for students to be eligible for Harriman Institute fellowships. Statement of Intent Form > Certificate Audit Students who have completed the requirements for the Harriman Certificate must submit the Harriman Institute Certificate Audit Form for approval to Rebecca Dalton (1211 IAB). All students must also submit a separate Application for Certificate to the Registrar’s Office. Certificates are awarded three times a year: October, February, and May. Deadlines for submitting the Harriman Certificate Audit Form are: October 2021 graduation: September 15, 2021 February 2022 graduation: December 1, 2021 May 2022 graduation: February 1, 2022 Harriman Certificate Audit Form > Coursework and Essay The Deadlines for completing Certificate requirements and depositing a Certificate essay are: October 1st for October graduation February 1st for February graduation May 1st for May graduation Essay Cover Sheet > Regional Studies Harriman Courses Course Listings The list below provides an overview of our course offerings to help students make decisions and plans for the upcoming semester. Please note that this schedule may be subject to change, and students are encouraged not only to revisit this page but also to confirm the course listings in the online Directory of Courses and Vergil, where course descriptions and class meeting times will be posted. Spring 2022 Regional Requirements The course lists on our website fulfill regional course requirements for the Harriman Institute Certificate, the MA in Regional Studies: Russia, Eurasia, and Eastern Europe (MARS-REERS), and SIPA Regional Specializations. Further course details may be found by visiting the appropriate department’s website. Any course marked with an asterisk (***) must be approved for regional credit by a Harriman advisor prior to enrollment. For Harriman's approval of courses not listed which you believe may fulfill regional requirements, please contact Rebecca Dalton. Language Requirements The following languages satisfy the Harriman Certificate & MARS-REERS language requirements and are currently being offered: Armenian, Czech, Hungarian, ***Persian, Polish, Romanian, Russian, Serbo-Croatian-Bosnian, ***Turkish, Ukrainian, and Yiddish. Please consult the Directory of Classes for language times and sections. Directory of Classes Questions about the Harriman Certificate? For further information, please email or call the Harriman Institute. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give