Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Join Our Community The easiest way to join our community is to sign up for the Harriman Institute's newsletter. We will keep you informed about all upcoming events, noteworthy community news, and sprinkle a video or podcast here and there. Success! Name Email Subscribe Now You can also join our listerv for announcements of events, publications, conferences, fellowships and calls for papers outside of Harriman. Mailing Address The Harriman Institute Columbia University International Affairs Building, 12th Floor 420 West 118th Street MC 3345 New York, NY 10027 Get In Touch For general inquiries, send us an email or call the Harriman Institute at 212-854-4623. Our business hours are Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Specific Contacts  Media Requests and Inquires For all media requests and inquiries, please call 212-854-4623 or email Ronald Meyer.  Events With questions about Harriman Institute’s events, get in touch with Carly Jackson. Library Resources Contact Rob Davis about library resources in Russian, Eurasian, and East European studies.  Visitor Programs For information about the postdoctoral, visiting scholar, and visiting faculty programs, please contact Xan Faber. Contact Ryan Kreider concerning the Paul Klebnikov Russian Civil Society Fellowship.  Finance Need help with your reimbursement, payment, or setting up a vendor profile? Contact Alexa Lehoczki.  Student and Alumni Affairs Rebecca Dalton can answer any questions about the MARS-REERS program or any other past, current, and prospective student matters.  Giving to Harriman To discuss giving opportunities, please contact Alla Rachkov. Directions To reach the Harriman Institute by public transportation: Five bus lines (M4, M5, M11, M60, M104) and one subway line (the #1 local) serve the Columbia neighborhood. The M60 bus is a direct link between campus and LaGuardia Airport. The Columbia stop is 116th Street. Do not use express trains #2 and #3, which follow a different route and do not stop at Columbia University; if you do, be certain to transfer at 96th Street to the #1 local. Enter the Columbia main gates at 116th Street and Broadway and walk east to Amsterdam Avenue. Turn left and walk up to 118th Street, where you will turn right and enter the International Affairs Building. Take an elevator up to the 12th Floor to the Harriman Institute. When the glass door is in front you, the Harriman Institute is on your right. Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give