Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Visiting Scholars Program The Visiting Scholar Program at the Harriman Institute provides doctoral candidates, faculty members, and scholars from or with ties to Russia, Eurasia, and East-Central Europe with the opportunity to take advantage of Columbia’s resources to further their research and scholarship. A visiting appointment is a non-stipendiary position lasting a period of between one month and one year, with an option to extend for up to one additional year. Visiting scholars receive Columbia University library access and borrowing privileges, a temporary Columbia University ID card, and an email address. What You Need To Know The Visiting Scholar designation is a courtesy designation that Columbia University offers to those who want to use University resources for their own purposes. The Visiting Scholar designation does not signify a formal affiliation with the University, and therefore, one should not represent themselves as having an affiliation with Columbia on their CVs, bios, etc. Additionally, if one needs a visa to enter the U.S. the purpose of the visit needs to match the visa status: visiting scholars should be in J status (unless they have another visa status other than a tourist visa) that best represents their primary purpose for being in the U.S. Columbia will sponsor J-1 visas for visiting scholars. Please also refer to the ISSO website for any questions. The title of Visiting Scholar is generally reserved for persons in one of five categories: (1) Members of academic institutions (including graduate students). If the person is from the New York metropolitan area, he or she must be on leave from their home institution; (2) officials and former officials of government or non-government organizations, such as the United Nations, and their affiliates; (3) members of research laboratories or institutions; (4) practicing professionals and creative artists; (5) such other persons who will contribute to the intellectual activity of the University, as approved by the Office of the Associate Provost on the request of the school or department. Individuals may be named Visiting Scholars for up to one year. Renewals for a second year are granted only in exceptional cases. Visitors must be sponsored by a faculty member at the Harriman Institute, who will serve as the scholar’s academic adviser and provide guidance on the progress of the visitor’s research. The faculty adviser should specialize in the same area as the prospective visitor. How to Apply N Application Requirements To apply, interested scholars should compile the following items and e-mail them to Xan Faber at xlf2101@columbia.edu no fewer than four months before the anticipated start date: Proof of sponsorship of an Institute faculty member. In order to be considered for Visiting Scholar status, applicants must exchange emails with the faculty sponsor confirming the faculty member’s willingness to be their faculty sponsor during the visit. This is an academic advisory role and not a financial one. It is the responsibility of the applicant to locate a faculty sponsor. Cover letter, approximately one page in length, stating the purpose of research and desired dates of stay (not to exceed one year) in the United States. The statement of research should clearly indicate how research at Columbia University’s Harriman Institute is critical to the outcome of the applicant’s proposal. Curriculum vitae Find a Faculty Sponsor >  Language Proficiency Scholars must demonstrate high English language speaking and writing proficiency in order for their application to be accepted. Those seeking the J-1 visa will need to provide sufficient proof of English language skills. We encourage all scholars to review the University’s policy and program handbook. Read the handbook >  Visa Sponsorship International scholars should obtain a J visa for the Visiting Scholar Program, as the purpose of the visit needs to match the visa status. Tourist visas are not accepted for one visiting for research purposes. Federal regulations require that the applicant for J-1 status meets the health insurance requirements of the Exchange Visitor Program while in the United States and that the applicant has sufficient funds for the period of stay at Columbia. The current minimum funding requirement is $2800 per month. More detailed information can be found under Resources for Students. If applying for a J-1 visa, the scholar must submit additional documentation required for the university to issue the DS-2019 form to support the J-1 application. The Harriman Institute will provide the applicant with information about these required materials. Scholars are responsible for covering a university-mandated $500 fee to the ISSO, which is charged when the university prepares the scholar’s DS-2019 form, creates the designation, and prepares the email account for the scholar. This fee does not include visa fees charged by the US government. Frequently Asked Questions >  Office Space Due to the tight constraint on office space, no office space is provided to scholars, who often work out of the university libraries.  Library Privileges Columbia University Visiting Scholars are automatically provided with borrowing privileges after they get their ID cards at the ID Center. Using the libraries during COVID-19 >  Housing Scholars are not eligible to receive university housing, as the housing resources allocated to the Harriman Institute are limited, and there is often an insufficient supply for full-time students. The Harriman Institute can provide some general resources for finding accommodations in the New York area, but visiting scholars are responsible for securing their own housing. Questions about becoming a Visiting Scholar? For further information, please send us an email or call Xan Faber at 212-854-6219. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give