Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Balkan Studies Program Columbia University has been the training ground and intellectual home for many prominent scholars and specialists on the Balkans. The Harriman Institute fulfills its mission of training academic experts on the region and providing a public forum to discuss important issues relating to the Balkans through sponsoring courses, lectures, and conferences devoted to the Balkans. Coming Up There are no upcoming events at this time. Balkan Program Latest News Congratulations to Harriman 2022 Graduates! May 23, 2022 Tanya Domi Comments on the Need for Serbia’s Vučić to Take a Stand on Russia’s War in Ukraine May 11, 2022 Geopost and TV Justice Interview Tanya Domi on Media in Serbia and BiH and Russian Propaganda May 9, 2022 Suzana Vuljevic Writes for Eurozine about the 1972 Smallpox Outbreak in Yugoslavia April 29, 2022 Mark Mazower Awarded 2021 Pol Roger Duff Cooper Prize April 21, 2022 Load Older Posts → Past Balkan Events Resurfacing Memories of the Holocaust in Bulgaria and the Former Yugoslavia Resurfacing Memories of the Holocaust in Bulgaria and the Former Yugoslavia April 28, 20229:30 am-1:30 pm More Info The Parallels of Russian Bellicosity in the Balkans in the Example of Ukraine The Parallels of Russian Bellicosity in the Balkans in the Example of Ukraine April 21, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm More Info Family Heirlooms: Reframing Yugoslavia Through Personal Histories Family Heirlooms: Reframing Yugoslavia Through Personal Histories April 19, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm More Info The Parallels between Genocide Denial in the Balkans and Holocaust Distortion The Parallels between Genocide Denial in the Balkans and Holocaust Distortion April 14, 20229:30 am-2:30 pm More Info Load More Past Events → Balkan Studies Faculty Aleksandar Bošković Lecturer in Bosnian, Croatian, and Serbian and Co-Deputy Director of the East Central European Center Tanya Domi Adjunct Professor of International and Public Affairs Valentina Izmirlieva Director, Harriman Institute; Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Mark Mazower Ira D. Wallach Professor of World Order Studies and Director of Columbia's Institute for Ideas and Imagination Elidor Mëhilli Adjunct Associate Professor of History Lara Nettelfield Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Human Rights Amra Sabic-El-Rayess Associate Professor of Practice (Education Policy and Social Analysis Department), Teachers College Dubravka Ugrešić Fall 2015 Writer in Residence 4 1 5 History of the Balkan Studies Program Over the years, many prominent scholars and specialists on the Balkans have been trained at Columbia University and the Harriman Institute/East Central European Center. The following is just a sampling of the intellectual contribution Columbia faculty and alumni have made to southeastern European studies in the United States: Abrahams, Fred A Village Destroyed, May 14th, 1999: War Crimes in Kosovo (co-author) (Berkeley, Ca: University of California Press, 2002) Albright, Madeleine Madam Secretary (New York: Hyperion, 2003) Barkey, Karen Empire of Difference: the Ottomans in Comparative Perspective (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008); Bandits and Bureaucrats: The Ottoman Route to State Centralization (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1994) Biberaj, Elez Albania in Transition: The Rocky Road to Democracy (Boulder, Co: Westview Press, 1999) Bose, Sumantra Bosnia After Dayton: Ethnic Conflict and International Intervention (New York: Oxford University Press, 2002) Cohen, Lenard J. Serpent in the Bosom: The Rise and Fall of Slobodan Milošević (Boulder, Co: Westview Press, 2001); Broken Bonds: The Disintegration of Yugoslavia (Boulder, Co: Westview Press, 1993) Gagnon, V.P. The Myth of Ethnic War: Serbia and Croatia in the 1990s (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2004) Gorup, Radmila In a Foreign Harbor: Essays in Honor of Vasa D. Mihailovic (co-editor) (Bloomington, In: Columbus, OH: Slavica, 2000); The Prince of Fire: An Anthology of Contemporary Serbian Short Stories (co-editor) (Pittsburgh, Pa: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1998). Halpern, Joel M. Neighbors at War: Anthropological Perspectives on Yugoslav Ethnicity, Culture, and History (University Park, PA: Pennsylvania State University Press, 2000); A Serbian Village in Historical Perspective (co-author with Barbara Kerewsky-Halpern) (Prospect Heights, Il: Waveland Press, 1972); A Serbian Village: Social and Cultural Change in a Yugoslav Socialist Community (New York: Columbia University Press, 1956) Holbrooke, Richard To End a War (New York: Random House, 1998) Lencek, Rado Slovenes, the Eastern Alpine Slavs, and their Cultural Heritage (New York: Institute on East Central Europe, 1989); Structure and History of the Slovene Language (Columbus, OH: Slavica, 1982) MacKenzie, David The Serbs and Russian Pan-Slavism, 1875-1878 (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1967) Mazower, Mark Salonica, City of Ghosts: Christians, Muslims and Jews, 1430-1950 (New York: Vintage, 2005); The Balkans: A Short History (New York: The Modern Library, 2000) Mosely, Phillip E. Communal Families in the Balkans: The Zadruga: Essays by Phillip E. Mosely and in his honor (Notre Dame, In: University of Notre Dame Press, 1976); Russian Diplomacy and the Opening of the Eastern Question in 1838 and 1839 (Cambridge, Ma: Harvard University Press, 1934) Nettelfield, Lara J. Courting Democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina: The Hague Tribunal’s Impact in a Postwar State (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010). Petrovich, Michael Boro A History of Modern Serbia, Volumes I & II (New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovic, 1976) Rothschild, Joseph Return to Diversity: A Political History of East Central Europe Since World War II (New York: Oxford University Press, 1989); East Central Europe between the Two World Wars (Seattle, Wa: University of Washington Press, 1974) Shoup, Paul S. The War in Bosnia-Herzegovina: Ethnic Conflict and International Intervention (New York: M.E. Sharpe, 1999); Communism and the Yugoslav National Question (New York: Columbia University Press, 1968) Silber, Laura Yugoslavia, Death of a Nation (co-author); (New York: TV Books, Inc., 1996) Skendi, Stavro Balkan Cultural Studies (New York: East European Monographs, distributed by Columbia University Press, 1980); The Albanian National Awakening, 1878-1912 (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1967); Albanian and South Slavic Epic Poetry (Philadelphia, PA: American Folklore Society, 1954) Snyder, Jack From Voting to Violence: Democratization and Nationalist Conflict (New York: W.W. Norton, 2000) Sullivan, Stacy Be Not Afraid, for You Have Sons in America: How a Brooklyn Roofer Helped Lure the U.S. into the Kosovo War (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 2004) Zimmerman, Warren Origins of a Catastrophe: Yugoslavia and its Destroyers—America’s Last Ambassador Tells What Happened and Why (New York: Times Books, 1996) Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give