Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Program on U.S.-Russia Relations The Harriman Institute was originally founded in 1946 as the Russia Institute. Building on the rich traditions and extraordinary resources of the Institute, and relying on the cutting-edge research and teaching of today’s faculty and scholars, the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations was established in 2015 to promote and reinvigorate the study of the international relationship that drove the Institute’s founding nearly 70 years ago. Through courses, scholarly and policy conferences, and visiting speaker series, the Program probes the history of U.S.-Soviet and U.S.-Russian relations and the range of current challenges and opportunities facing the two countries today. Its ultimate goal is to provoke both scholarly and policy reconsiderations of the possibilities and limits of U.S.-Russia relations going forward. Coming Up There are no upcoming events at this time. Program Faculty Peter Clement Visiting Senior Research Scholar in the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies and Adjunct Professor Alexander A. Cooley Claire Tow Professor of Political Science Timothy M. Frye Marshall D. Shulman Professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy Elise Giuliano Lecturer in Political Science, Director of the MARS-REERS Program, and Director of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations Robert Jervis (1940-2021) Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Politics Thomas Kent Adjunct Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs Kimberly Marten Professor of Political Science, Barnard College Stephen Sestanovich Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor for the Practice of International Diplomacy Jack Snyder Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Relations 4 1 5 Past PURR Events Russian-Turkish Relations: Past & Present Russian-Turkish Relations: Past & Present April 18, 20221:00 pm-2:30 pm Russia in Africa: Soviet Legacies, Current Objectives, Local Responses Russia in Africa: Soviet Legacies, Current Objectives, Local Responses December 7, 202112:15 pm-1:45 pm Where To Now? The New Challenges to Russian Independent Media Where To Now? The New Challenges to Russian Independent Media November 16, 202112:30 pm-2:00 pm Book Talk. Russian Energy Chains: The Remaking of Technopolitics from Siberia to Ukraine to the European Union by Margarita M. Balmaceda Book Talk. Russian Energy Chains: The Remaking of Technopolitics from Siberia to Ukraine to the European Union by Margarita M. Balmaceda October 21, 20214:15 pm-5:45 pm Load More Program on U.S.-Russia Relations Conversations with Diplomats The Harriman Institute community of faculty and alumni includes many experts on U.S.-Russia relations. We are especially proud that several of those experts have served at the rank of Ambassador of the United States to the Soviet Union, Russia, and other post-Soviet states. In this series of videos, former Director of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations, Kimberly Marten, sits down with some of Harriman Ambassadors to learn about their careers, their most memorable experiences while serving as Ambassador, and their predictions and recommendations for relations between the U.S. and Russia today. Interviews with Dr. Jack Matlock, former U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union (February 18, 2016) Interviews with Stephen Sestanovich, Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor for the Practice of International Diplomacy (October 13, 2015) Sign Up for PURR Many events of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations are recorded and later publically available on the Harriman Institute’s YouTube channel. Most events are by invitation only and take place in New York City. To be considered for the PURR invite list, please express interest in joining. Make sure to include a brief description of your work, study, or other interest in US-Russia relations. We encourage submissions from students, faculty, alumni, and professionals who span a broad range of viewpoints, and who bring real added value to the discussions because of their deep interest and/or expertise in the region. **Due to the COVID-19 pandemic all events are currently held virtually** Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give