Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Russian Studies at Harriman Established as the Russian Institute in 1946, the Harriman Institute at Columbia University is one of the world’s leading academic institutions for the study of Russia in all disciplines, from literature and culture to history and politics. Coming Up Russia’s War on Ukraine: A New Phase Russia’s War on Ukraine: A New Phase June 7, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm More Info Russia at the Harriman Institute Latest News Foreign Policy Playlist Features Voices of Ukraine June 1, 2022 Christopher Atwood (MARS-REERS ’23) on Russia’s Violations of the U.N. Genocide Convention May 31, 2022 Tanya Domi Quoted in the Guardian about Russia’s Breaches of the Genocide Convention May 31, 2022 Voices of Ukraine, Episode 9: In Conversation with The Kyiv Independent’s Lili Bivings (MARS-REERS ’23) May 26, 2022 Ronald Meyer Blogs about Working with Deborah Martinsen on Crime and Punishment May 23, 2022 See Older Posts Past Russia Events Film Screening. The New Greatness Case Film Screening. The New Greatness Case May 24, 2022 - May 25, 2022 The West’s Relations with Ukraine and Russia after the War The West’s Relations with Ukraine and Russia after the War May 23, 202211:15 am-12:45 pm Transatlantic Relations after the War in Ukraine Transatlantic Relations after the War in Ukraine May 5, 20221:00 pm-2:30 pm The Russian Public and the War in Ukraine: Support, Unease, and Outrage The Russian Public and the War in Ukraine: Support, Unease, and Outrage May 3, 20226:00 pm-7:30 pm Conference. Russian Emigration on the Waves of Freedom Conference. Russian Emigration on the Waves of Freedom May 2, 2022 - May 3, 2022 Artist Talk. Mikhail Magaril on “The Untold Stories of Russian History” Artist Talk. Mikhail Magaril on “The Untold Stories of Russian History” April 27, 20226:00 pm-8:00 pm Russian-Turkish Relations: Past & Present Russian-Turkish Relations: Past & Present April 18, 20221:00 pm-2:30 pm Book Talk. La Nijinska: Choreographer of the Modern by Lynn Garafola Book Talk. La Nijinska: Choreographer of the Modern by Lynn Garafola March 25, 20225:00 pm-6:30 pm Russian Studies Faculty Peter Clement Visiting Senior Research Scholar in the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies and Adjunct Professor Alexander A. Cooley Claire Tow Professor of Political Science Erica Drennan Term Assistant Professor, Slavic, Barnard Catherine Evtuhov Professor of History Timothy M. Frye Marshall D. Shulman Professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy Keith Gessen George T. Delacorte Assistant Professor of Magazine Journalism Elise Giuliano Lecturer in Political Science, Director of the MARS-REERS Program, and Director of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations Valentina Izmirlieva Director, Harriman Institute; Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Anna Katsnelson Adjunct Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages Thomas Kent Adjunct Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs Liza Knapp Professor and Chair, Department of Slavic Languages Marina Ledkovsky (1924-2014) Professor of Russian Emerita, Barnard College Adam Leeds Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages Mark Lipovetsky Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Kimberly Marten Professor of Political Science, Barnard College 4 1 2 5 Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give