Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give East Central European Center The Institute on East Central Europe, which was established in 1954 with the aid of the Carnegie Corporation, trains students in the knowledge of peoples and problems of the nations lying between Germany and Russia and between the Balkan and Aegean seas. Renamed the Center on East Central Europe in 1997, it is the oldest academic unit in any major U.S. academic institution to deal exclusively with East Central Europe. Coming Up There are no upcoming events at this time. East Central European Center Latest News Madison Sargeant (MARS-REERS ’22) Writes on Polish Defence Policy for “Strife” May 31, 2022 Congratulations to Harriman 2022 Graduates! May 23, 2022 Christopher Harwood to Return as Co-Deputy Director of East Central European Center May 5, 2022 Gail Archer Releases “Cantius,” a CD of Polish Organ Music May 5, 2022 Rector and Senate of the University of Szczecin Celebrate Anna Frajlich’s Jubilee April 5, 2022 Load Older Posts → Past ECEC Events Book Panel. Prague and Beyond: Jews in the Bohemian Lands Book Panel. Prague and Beyond: Jews in the Bohemian Lands May 24, 20226:30 pm-8:30 pm Czesław Miłosz Symposium Czesław Miłosz Symposium May 4, 202212:30 pm-2:00 pm A Conversation with Polish Basketball Legend Kent Washington A Conversation with Polish Basketball Legend Kent Washington May 3, 20227:00 pm-8:30 pm Byzantium as Seen by the White Russians in Constantinople Byzantium as Seen by the White Russians in Constantinople May 2, 20226:00 pm-7:30 pm Eyes that Lead: The History of Guide Dogs for the Blind in East Central Europe and Beyond Eyes that Lead: The History of Guide Dogs for the Blind in East Central Europe and Beyond April 28, 20226:00 pm-7:30 pm Resurfacing Memories of the Holocaust in Bulgaria and the Former Yugoslavia Resurfacing Memories of the Holocaust in Bulgaria and the Former Yugoslavia April 28, 20229:30 am-1:30 pm The Parallels of Russian Bellicosity in the Balkans in the Example of Ukraine The Parallels of Russian Bellicosity in the Balkans in the Example of Ukraine April 21, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Family Heirlooms: Reframing Yugoslavia Through Personal Histories Family Heirlooms: Reframing Yugoslavia Through Personal Histories April 19, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Load More Past Events → ECEC Faculty Monika Baár István Deák Visiting Professor (Spring 2022) Aleksandar Bošković Lecturer in Bosnian, Croatian, and Serbian and Co-Deputy Director of the East Central European Center Ofer Dynes Leonard Kaye Assistant Professor of Hebrew and Comparative Literature, Dept. of Slavic Languages Christopher Harwood Senior Lecturer in Czech Annette Insdorf Professor, Film Valentina Izmirlieva Director, Harriman Institute; Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Rebecca Kobrin Russell and Bettina Knapp Associate Professor of American Jewish History; Co-Director, Institute for Israel and Jewish Studies Wojciech Kopczuk Professor of Economics and International and Public Affairs László Krasznahorkai Spring 2014 Writer in Residence Mark Mazower Ira D. Wallach Professor of World Order Studies and Director of Columbia's Institute for Ideas and Imagination Malgorzata Mazurek Associate Professor of Polish Studies, Department of History Jessica Merrill Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages Tsveta Petrova Lecturer in the Discipline of Political Science Tomasz Piskorski Edward S. Gordon Professor of Real Estate in the Finance Division at Columbia Business School Katharina Pistor Edwin B. Parker Professor of Comparative Law; Director, Center on Global Legal Transformation; Member, Committee on Global Thought Carol Rounds Senior Lecturer in Hungarian, Department of Italian David Stark Arthur Lehman Professor of Sociology; Director of Columbia's Center on Organizational Innovation Dubravka Ugrešić Fall 2015 Writer in Residence 4 1 5 Contact the East Central European Center Send an email or call 212-854-4623. You can also reach out to one of ECEC’s current co-deputy directors, Aleksandar Boskovic or Christopher Caes. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give