Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Russian Studies and Policy Program In the fall of 2016, facilitated by a generous grant from Carnegie Corporation of New York, the Harriman Institute launched an intensive project to expand the study of Russia across the social sciences at Columbia University and the greater New York university community. The New York Russia Public Policy Seminar Series is the centerpiece of this program and builds on Harriman’s rich tradition of policy outreach to bring scholars and policy-makers together to discuss contemporary issues of critical importance to the U.S. and Russia. The series includes invited talks, panel discussions, and seminars aimed at engaging graduate students and the wider public on topics relating to Russia. Call for Proposals Carnegie/Harriman Research Grants for Ph.D. Students in the Social Sciences Thanks to generous support from Carnegie Corporation of New York, the Harriman Institute of Columbia University announces a competition for grants of up to $12,000 each for Ph.D. candidates in the social sciences who are conducting research on Russia. These grants are designed to improve research and training of Ph.D. students whose dissertations include a focus on Russia. Research grants may support training, data collection, dissertation research, or research projects unrelated to the dissertation. Projects that involve some form of collaboration with scholars based in Russia will receive special attention, although this is not a condition of receiving the grant. Learn more Principal Investigator Alexander A. Cooley Claire Tow Professor of Political Science Co-Principal Investigators Timothy M. Frye Marshall D. Shulman Professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy Elise Giuliano Lecturer in Political Science, Director of the MARS-REERS Program, and Director of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations Valentina Izmirlieva Director, Harriman Institute; Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Jack Snyder Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Relations Past Events Russian-Turkish Relations: Past & Present Russian-Turkish Relations: Past & Present April 18, 20221:00 pm-2:30 pm Sanctioning Russia: Implications and Expectations Sanctioning Russia: Implications and Expectations March 23, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm What’s Next? Experts Respond to Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine What’s Next? Experts Respond to Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine March 4, 202211:00 am-12:30 pm Environmental Activism in Russia Environmental Activism in Russia February 21, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Crisis and Bargaining Over Ukraine: A New US-Russia Security Order? Crisis and Bargaining Over Ukraine: A New US-Russia Security Order? January 31, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Russia in Africa: Soviet Legacies, Current Objectives, Local Responses Russia in Africa: Soviet Legacies, Current Objectives, Local Responses December 7, 202112:15 pm-1:45 pm After the Biden-Putin Summit: The State of US-Russia Relations One Year into the Biden Administration After the Biden-Putin Summit: The State of US-Russia Relations One Year into the Biden Administration November 29, 202112:00 pm-1:30 pm Russian Relations with Central Asia and Afghanistan after U.S. Withdrawal Russian Relations with Central Asia and Afghanistan after U.S. Withdrawal October 25, 202112:00 pm-1:30 pm The Results of Russia’s 2021 Parliamentary Elections: How Should We Understand Them? The Results of Russia’s 2021 Parliamentary Elections: How Should We Understand Them? September 27, 202112:00 pm-1:30 pm State-Sponsored Hijacking and International Responses: The Political Challenge of the Ryanair Incident State-Sponsored Hijacking and International Responses: The Political Challenge of the Ryanair Incident June 14, 202112:00 pm-1:30 pm Adaptation and Pragmatism: Explaining the Survival of the Russian Constitutional Court Adaptation and Pragmatism: Explaining the Survival of the Russian Constitutional Court June 10, 202112:00 pm-1:30 pm Judicial Independence in Russia: What Do Russians Think? Judicial Independence in Russia: What Do Russians Think? June 3, 202112:00 pm-1:30 pm Load More Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give