Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Mission of the Harriman Institute The Harriman Institute at Columbia University is one of the world’s leading academic institutions for the study of Russia, Eurasia, and East Central Europe. Our mission is to serve our community at the university and beyond by supporting research, instruction, and dialogue, sponsoring vibrant and multidisciplinary events that bring together our extraordinary resources of faculty, students, and alumni. We are committed to training the next generation of regional specialists to play leadership roles in setting the academic and scholarly agenda, making policy and challenging accepted truths about how we study our rapidly changing world. Primary Activities  Academic Programs The Institute is home to the M.A. program in Regional Studies: Russia, Eurasia, and Eastern Europe, which provides an interdisciplinary study of the region to young scholars and mid-career professionals. The Institute also administers certificate programs open to students pursuing graduate-level degrees at Columbia University, and our regional specializations for students from the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). We also house the undergraduate major in East Central European Regional Studies along with a BA/MA program. Learn more >  Fellows and Visiting Scholars The Institute serves as an intellectual home for postdoctoral and visiting scholars, policy experts, journalists, and other professionals from all parts of the world. People at Harriman >  Library Resources The library resources of Columbia University, together with the famed collection of the New York Public Library, offer Harriman researchers one of the richest concentrations of materials for Russian, Eurasian and East European studies in the world. Visit the Bakhmeteff Archives >  Publications The Institute publishes the biannual Harriman Magazine, weekly digital newsletters, and maintains a publications archive. Sign up for newsletters > } Lectures and Conferences The Institute sponsors public lectures and conferences. Special projects focus attention on research regions like East Central Europe, Ukraine, Balkans, Central Asia, and Russia. These activities are open to the policy community, the media, alumni, local educators, and the private sector. See events calendar > U Research Programs The Harriman Institute supports and furthers the research of its faculty and students through lectures, conferences, and regional programs; hosting postdoctoral fellows and visiting scholars; and finally, financial support of projects by Institute faculty and students through a variety of grants and fellowship awards. Fund your next project or trip through Harriman. Info for undergrads > | Info for graduate students > Leadership Executive Committee Gail Archer Professor of Professional Practice in Music Aleksandar Bošković Lecturer in Bosnian, Croatian, and Serbian and Co-Deputy Director of the East Central European Center Christopher Caes Lecturer in Polish and Co-Deputy Director of the East Central European Center Alexander A. Cooley Claire Tow Professor of Political Science Catherine Evtuhov Professor of History Timothy M. Frye Marshall D. Shulman Professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy Christopher Harwood Senior Lecturer in Czech Valentina Izmirlieva Director, Harriman Institute; Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Alexander Karp Professor of Mathematics Education at Teachers College Liza Knapp Professor and Chair, Department of Slavic Languages Rebecca Kobrin Russell and Bettina Knapp Associate Professor of American Jewish History; Co-Director, Institute for Israel and Jewish Studies Mark Lipovetsky Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Kimberly Marten Professor of Political Science, Barnard College Mark Mazower Ira D. Wallach Professor of World Order Studies and Director of Columbia's Institute for Ideas and Imagination Malgorzata Mazurek Associate Professor of Polish Studies, Department of History Lara Nettelfield Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Human Rights Carol Rounds Senior Lecturer in Hungarian, Department of Italian Stephen Sestanovich Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Professor for the Practice of International Diplomacy Alla Smyslova Senior Lecturer in Russian, Department of Slavic Languages; Director of the Russian Language Program Jack Snyder Robert and Renee Belfer Professor of International Relations Michael Stanislawski Nathan J. Miller Professor of History David Stark Arthur Lehman Professor of Sociology; Director of Columbia's Center on Organizational Innovation Gita Steiner-Khamsi Professor of Comparative and International Education, Teachers College Dennis Tenen Associate Professor of English and Comparative Literature National Advisory Council Rawi Abdelal Harvard Business School and Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies Gail Buyske ’93 Financial Sector Strategies, Inc. Dora Chomiak dPrism Advisors, Razom for Ukraine Alexander A. Cooley Claire Tow Professor of Political Science Rachel Denber ’86 Human Rights Watch Nadia Jacyk Prombank Group and Petro Jacyk Education Foundation Grace Kennan Warnecke National Committee on American Foreign Policy Musa Klebnikov Harriman Institute; Train Foundation; Special Needs Advisors LLC; David Mortimer Christopher Mouravieff-Apostol Banque Pictet & Cie Julie Newton ’85 St. Antony’s College, University of Oxford Mark Pomar ’76 Clements Center for National Security at University of Texas Roman Procyk Ukrainian Studies Fund, Inc. Jenik Radon School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University Alan Rousso European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Colette Shulman William Spiegelberger ’87 Lawyer, Admitted to Practice in New York State Annual Reports Fiscal Year 2019-20 Fiscal Year 2018-19 Fiscal Year 2017-18 Fiscal Year 2016-17 Fiscal Year 2015-16 Fiscal Year 2014-15 History of the Harriman Institute The Harriman Institute, the first academic center in the United States devoted to the interdisciplinary study of Russia and the Soviet Union, was founded in 1946, with the support of the Rockefeller Foundation, as the Russian Institute. The goals of the new regional institute, as stated in the proposal to the Rockefeller Foundation, were viewed to be twofold: “First, the direct advancement of knowledge in the Russian field through the coordinated research work of faculty and students; and secondly, the training of these students… as American specialists who will subsequently do work of authority and influence in the Russian field.” Although the Institute’s geographical purview has grown to encompass all the states of the former Soviet Union and the post-socialist states, the Institute has remained true to its overall objectives of teaching and research. In 1982, the Russian Institute became the W. Averell Harriman Institute for the Advanced Study of the Soviet Union, in recognition both of Governor Harriman’s generous endowment of the Institute and his lifetime of distinguished service. As Governor Harriman stated in the announcement of the establishment of the Harriman Institute: “My objective is very clear: I want to stimulate and encourage the advanced study of Soviet affairs. To base policy on ignorance and illusion is very dangerous. Policy should be based on knowledge and understanding.” In 1992, following the collapse of the USSR, the Institute officially expanded its focus to encompass all the states of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and adopted the name of the Harriman Institute. In 1997, the Harriman and East Central European Institutes united to promote comparative scholarly knowledge and public understanding of the complex and changing polities, economies, societies, and cultures of the area between Germany and the Pacific Ocean. In 2017, the East Central European Center was officially integrated into the Harriman Institute and is now governed by two co-directors. Throughout the years our faculty and alumni have made important contributions to academia, and have also played leading roles in public policy, law, diplomacy, business, and the arts. Notable among them are former head of the National Security Council, Zbigniew Brzezinski; former Special Advisor to the Secretary of State, Marshall Shulman; former Ambassador to Russia, Jack Matlock; former Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright. The Institute currently houses a diverse multi-disciplinary faculty from Columbia’s School of Arts and Sciences; Barnard College; the Schools of International and Public Affairs, Business, Law, and the Arts; Teacher’s College; and the Union and Jewish Theological Seminaries. We support teaching, research, and public events that bring together our extraordinary faculty, students, and alumni. From “brown bag” lectures, book presentations, art exhibitions and film screenings, to scholarly panels and conferences, the Institute provides a constantly evolving forum for intellectual discussion and innovation. In addition to offering undergraduate and graduate courses, the Institute administers an MA program in Russian, Eurasian, and East European Studies, which admits approximately 10 students per year. We are committed to training the next generation of regional specialists, who will continue to shape policy, fill leading academic positions, and challenge the accepted truths about how we study our rapidly changing world. Learn more Harriman history in our 60th Anniversary book. Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Loop item in Leadership View – Excom - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ .row { margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; padding-bottom: 20px; padding-right: 30px; } .full-name a { color: #2c6baa; } /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Loop item in Leadership View – Excom - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Loop item in Leadership View (For About page) – NAC Category - start */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ .row { padding-bottom: 20px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; } .full-name a { color: #2c6baa; } /* ----------------------------------------- */ /* Content Template: Loop item in Leadership View (For About page) – NAC Category - end */ /* ----------------------------------------- */ This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give