Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Graduate Student Funding The Harriman Institute provides financial support towards research projects, travel, and internships for graduate students across the entire university through a variety of grants and fellowship awards. Merit-based fellowships are awarded to first-year MARS-REERS students during the admissions process. There is also significant funding for the second year of study in the MARS-REERS program. What You Need To Know Academic-year fellowship applications become available in November. For most fellowships, the application deadline is in February, and awards are announced in early April. Awards may cover partial or full tuition. Stipends, if awarded are limited to $15,000 per year for MA students. There is one application for all academic year fellowships. Applications for summer opportunities vary, and each has its own application. We encourage all students to apply for as many funding opportunities as possible and candidates may apply for more than one fellowship. For questions regarding fellowships and application procedures, please contact Rebecca Dalton. Seasonal Opportunities for Graduate Students PepsiCo Fellowships for Research Travel / Study PepsiCo fellowships are awarded to outstanding Columbia graduate students to support semester and summer travel to Russia, Eurasia, and East Central Europe, for the purposes of conducting research. In exceptional cases, travel to make a research presentation at a conference in the region may be supported. Apply Now Summer Graduate Research Fellowships in Russian, Eurasian and East European Diaspora Studies We are pleased to announce a new fellowship opportunity open to all graduate students. The Harriman Institute will offer support for summer research focusing on diasporas of different Slavic, Eurasian, and East European nations in the United States and other nations. This fellowship is meant specifically for those who are traveling to a location outside of Russia, Eurasia and Eastern Europe. Domestic travel is also allowed and encouraged. Apply Now Summer Civil Society Graduate Fellowship The Harriman Institute Civil Society Graduate Fellowship supports graduate students from across Columbia University on a competitive application basis. The Fellowship supports travel and living expenses for unpaid practical summer internships at any international or non-governmental organization that benefits civil society in any of the countries of the Russian, Eurasian, or East-Central European region. Apply Now Summer Language Study Fellowships The Institute’s Summer Language Fellowships are awarded to Columbia undergraduate and graduate students for intensive study of the languages of Russia, Eurasia, and East-Central Europe in either the region or the U.S. Open to all Columbia University students. Summer Language Study support will be given in amounts not exceeding $5,000. Please include an unofficial transcript and a 500-word personal statement along with a budget. Have one letter of recommendation sent directly to Xan Faber at xlf2101@columbia.edu. Apply Now Padma Desai Summer Fellowship The Padma Desai Summer Fellowship supports travel and living expenses for summer research, travel, language training, or internship opportunities for undergraduates and/or graduate students whose interests include Russian and/or Soviet Studies. Students from the fields of Economics, Political Science, and History may apply. While preference is given to students who plan to use their fellowships in Russia, other locations that enrich a students’ understanding of Russian and Soviet Studies will also be considered. Apply Now Academic Year Fellowships for Graduate Students The funding application for academic year 2022-23 is closed. The next application will become available in November 2022 with a February 2023 deadline. Volodymyr and Lydia Z. Bazarko Fellowship Dr. Volodymyr Bazarko and his wife Mrs. Lydia Z. Bazarko have established an endowment fund for the Ukrainian Studies Program at the Harriman Institute. The Bazarko Fellowship is awarded annually to a student whose research focuses on Ukraine, its culture, politics, economics or history. Isaac Henry Ergas Fellowship The Ergas Memorial Fellowship is awarded to outstanding students conducting research in Turkic and Central Asian Studies. Candidates for this fellowship must share Isaac Henry Ergas’ enduring commitment to promote economic development and social justice and to overcome ethnic strife. They must apply for it specifically, are required to inform the Ergas family of their research plans and progress, and must acknowledge receipt of the Fellowship in any written work produced with the aid of such funding, copies of which must be deposited with the Harriman Institute. Harriman Program Assistant Fellowship The Harriman Institute Program Assistant Fellowship is available to full-time second-year students enrolled in SIPA or pursuing an MA in Regional Studies- Russia, Eurasia, and Eastern Europe. The fellowship provides $18,000 in tuition credit and $6,000 stipend. Working with Harriman staff, Program Assistants aid in organizing and facilitating Harriman events. PAs are expected to work 13-15 hours per week. Evening availability is required. Preference will be given to students planning to enroll for the entire academic year. John N. Hazard Fellowship The Hazard Fellowship is awarded to graduate students who have shown excellence in the study of the rule of law in Russia. It was established by the students and friends of legal scholar John Hazard, one of the founders of the Russian Institute and, indeed, of Soviet Studies in the United States. The Hazard Fellowship is open to all Columbia graduate students. Joseph I. Meiers Fellowship The Joseph I Meiers Fellowship is awarded to graduate students specializing in the region who intend to enter the fields of academics, government, business, and/or journalism and plan to perpetuate throughout their careers the ideals of world peace represented by the fellowship. Philip E. Mosely and John H. Backer Fellowship The Mosely/Baker Fellowship is awarded to outstanding graduate students in the field of Soviet/Post-Soviet Studies. There is a preference for a student specializing in Political Science, however all graduate students are eligible. Jaan Pennar Fellowship Fund for Baltic Studies The Pennar Fund was established as a permanent endowment of the Harriman Institute by family and friends of the late Jaan Pennar, author and scholar, to commemorate his life by promoting understanding and appreciation of the politics, economics, culture, and history of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. PepsiCo Junior Fellowship The PepsiCo Junior Fellowship is awarded for a period of one academic year to outstanding Certificate and/or MARS candidates. Candidates should have completed two semesters of graduate studies by the time the fellowship period begins and should be in good standing with their departments or schools. The Fellowship supports one year of course work. Awards may cover partial or full tuition (for PhD students M&F). Stipends, if awarded, are limited to $15,000 max for MA students. Shkilnyk Fellowship for Ukrainian Studies The Shkilnyk Fellowship is awarded to one graduate student concentrating in Ukrainian history and/or social sciences. The Shkilnyk Fellowship is open to all Columbia graduate students. Work Study Opportunities Under the Work-Study Program, students who are U.S. citizens (or who have permanent resident status) may work up to 20 hours per week during the academic year program period (September-May) and up to 35 hours per week during the summer program period. Eligibility for this program depends on financial need. Applications to determine College Work-Study eligibility may be obtained from the Financial Aid Office of your school. For further information about the program, eligible students should contact Rebecca Dalton. Other Financial Aid Sources GSAS, SIPA, and Columbia’s other graduate professional schools offer comprehensive programs of student financial aid. For further information on award descriptions, application deadlines and procedures, students should consult the appropriate graduate school admissions bulletins. Applicants are also urged to compete for the many national, regional and foundation fellowships, which are often larger than those granted by the University. Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give