Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Ukrainian Studies Program The Ukrainian Studies Program at Columbia University aspires to build a vibrant and multi-faceted program that integrates Ukrainian studies into broader intellectual and policy agendas while promoting research and scholarly work on contemporary Ukraine in the United States. By expanding the existing offerings of departments, institutes, and schools at Columbia, the Ukrainian Studies Program aims to develop a curriculum that will educate academics, diplomats, journalists, businessmen, and future specialists on the history, language, literature, and politics of Ukraine. View Spring 2022 Ukrainian Studies Courses > Ukrainian Studies Program Latest News Foreign Policy Playlist Features Voices of Ukraine June 1, 2022 Christopher Atwood (MARS-REERS ’23) on Russia’s Violations of the U.N. Genocide Convention May 31, 2022 Madison Sargeant (MARS-REERS ’22) Writes on Polish Defence Policy for “Strife” May 31, 2022 “Boston Musical Intelligencer” Reviews Gail Archer’s Organ Recital May 31, 2022 Tanya Domi Quoted in the Guardian about Russia’s Breaches of the Genocide Convention May 31, 2022 See Older Posts Past Ukrainian Events The West’s Relations with Ukraine and Russia after the War The West’s Relations with Ukraine and Russia after the War May 23, 202211:15 am-12:45 pm Transatlantic Relations after the War in Ukraine Transatlantic Relations after the War in Ukraine May 5, 20221:00 pm-2:30 pm The Russian Public and the War in Ukraine: Support, Unease, and Outrage The Russian Public and the War in Ukraine: Support, Unease, and Outrage May 3, 20226:00 pm-7:30 pm Dialogues on War: Volodymyr Sheiko and Peter Webber Dialogues on War: Volodymyr Sheiko and Peter Webber May 3, 20229:00 am-10:00 am Responding to the Invasion of Ukraine: The Impact of Feminist Foreign Policies Responding to the Invasion of Ukraine: The Impact of Feminist Foreign Policies April 22, 202210:00 am-11:30 am Film Screening & Discussion. Slovo House. Unfinished Novel Film Screening & Discussion. Slovo House. Unfinished Novel April 21, 20226:00 pm-8:00 pm The Parallels of Russian Bellicosity in the Balkans in the Example of Ukraine The Parallels of Russian Bellicosity in the Balkans in the Example of Ukraine April 21, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Dialogues on War: Iryna Starovoyt and Heather Morris Dialogues on War: Iryna Starovoyt and Heather Morris April 21, 20227:00 am-8:00 am Disability and the War in Ukraine: Organized Support Disability and the War in Ukraine: Organized Support April 15, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Film Screening & Discussion. Toloka Film Screening & Discussion. Toloka April 14, 20226:00 pm-8:00 pm POSTPONED. Warfare Reporting in the Digital Age POSTPONED. Warfare Reporting in the Digital Age April 14, 202212:00 pm-1:30 pm Dialogues on War: Iryna Slavinska and Melinda Haring Dialogues on War: Iryna Slavinska and Melinda Haring April 13, 20229:00 am-10:00 am Load older events Ukrainian Studies Faculty Mark Andryczyk Associate Research Scholar, Ukrainian Studies Program Elise Giuliano Lecturer in Political Science, Director of the MARS-REERS Program, and Director of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations Valerii Kuchynskyi Adjunct Professor of International Relations Olena Martynyuk Petro Jacyk Postdoctoral Research Scholar in Ukrainian Studies Alexander Motyl Adjunct Professor Yuri Shevchuk Lecturer in Ukrainian 4 1 5 Questions about Ukrainian Studies at Columbia University? For more information about courses or the Ukrainian Studies Program, please contact Mark Andryczyk or send us an email. With questions about the Ukrainian Film Club reach out to Yuri Shevchuk. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give