Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give MARS-REERS and BA/MA Admissions Application for admission to the Master of Arts in Regional Studies – Russia, Eurasia, and Eastern Europe (MARS-REERS) – is made through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). This applies to both the stand-alone MA degree and the BA/MA program. Application Deadlines Spring Admission MA Program: November 11, 2021 BA/MA Program: November 16, 2021* * For current undergraduate Columbia students only. Fall Admission MA Program: January 13, 2022 Applications will be accepted until May 1st on a space-available basis. BA/MA Program: April 22, 2022* * For current undergraduate Columbia students only. Apply Now Application Requirements Applications are accepted online only and must include: 10-15 page writing sample Personal statement Resume/CV 3 recommendations GRE scores (optional) TOEFL scores for non-native English speakers Financial Aid First Year Fellowships Merit-based fellowships are available for first-year MARS-REERS students. There is no separate application, the GSAS application will be used by the admissions committee to award funding. Apply Second Year Fellowships There is significant funding for the second year of study for MARS-REERS students. The Institute’s Fellowship Committee makes all fellowship decisions. Candidates may apply for more than one fellowship. Find Funding Summer Opportunities Every year the Harriman Institute awards funding for Columbia student travel, research, and language study in and about our region. Learn More Frequently Asked Questions General FAQs Is the MA program 1 or 2 years? The program can be finished in 1 year, however, it is designed to be a two-year program with summer funding available for internships, language study, or research in the region. How many students enroll each year? We aim to have 8-10 students in each cohort. What is the cost of attendance? Students must enroll in 2 full residence units in their first year. You can find the cost of a residence unit for the current academic year on the GSAS website. In their second year, students enroll in extended residence. What is a residence unit? A residence unit is a term that refers to a full-time student that is eligible for 20 credit points of class. Students will enroll in a residence unit each semester. Is there funding available for MA students? Merit-based funding is available for first-year students. Applicants are automatically considered for funding when they apply by the January deadline. Second-year students apply for merit-based fellowships in February of their first year. Significant funding is available for continuing students. What do students do in the summer? Summer activities include internships, thesis field research, and language study in the region. Is there funding for summer travel/study/research/internships? Yes. There is funding for summer travel and research through Harriman Institute’s PepsiCo Research and Travel Fellowships. Internships can be funded through our European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Internship Program or the Civil Society Fellowship. Finally, Summer Language Fellowships are also available to MA students. Learn more > Does the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences provide housing for Master's students? GSAS does not guarantee housing for MA students. Master’s students can enter a waiting list for housing. As University housing opens, MA students will be chosen off of the list. It is important for admitted students to join the waitlist as soon as possible if they would like university housing. More info > Does the university offer any housing assistance for students moving to New York City? The university has an office for off-campus housing (OCHA). Admitted students may search the database for open apartments or rooms to rent. There is also an option to find a roommate through a roommate search board. OCHA website > Does Columbia offer health insurance to Master's students? University policy requires all registered full-time students to have health insurance coverage that meets the standards set by Columbia Health. The Columbia Student Medical Insurance Plan offers the 90 Plan (formerly called Gold Plan) and the 100 Plan (formerly called the Platinum Plan). The Columbia Plan is administered by Aetna Student Health and is underwritten by Aetna. To ensure that international students have access to the highest quality care on and off-campus, the University requires that all international students (with the exception of non-degree special students and visiting exchange scholars) enroll in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Part-time domestic students may elect enrollment in the plan. Admissions and Application FAQs When is the application deadline? The deadline for fall admission is mid-January, with rolling admissions until May if space remains. We also allow for spring admission with a deadline in mid-November. Merit-based funding is only available for fall admission at the mid-January deadline. Exact application deadlines > Can I apply for admittance to the spring term? Yes, the deadline for spring semester entrance is mid-November prior to that spring. Students applying for spring acceptance will not be considered for academic-year funding. May I submit more than the required three letters of recommendation? Yes, we accept up to five letters. Can I submit letters of recommendation from people outside of academia? Yes, although you should have at least one recommendation from someone who can attest to your academic capabilities. How are letters of recommendation submitted? Letters of recommendation along with all other application materials are sent through the GSAS application system, online. If you have any questions about how to submit materials please contact GSAS. Materials should not be sent directly to the Harriman Institute. Is there a minimum GRE score required for admission? There is no official score requirement and the department does not release information on the selection process. Is there a minimum TOEFL or IELTS score requirement? The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences requires a minimum score of 600 on the paper-based test, 100 on the internet-based test, or a 7.5 for the IELTS. If I took the TOEFL or IELTS more than once, can I submit the results of more than one test to achieve the minimum score? Applicants must achieve a minimum total score of 100 on the results of one test. The highest score obtained on the individual sections of the test cannot be combined to meet the minimum total requirement. Do I need to submit official transcripts when I submit my application? No. Unofficial paper transcripts or documents downloaded from your school’s student services website may be uploaded for consideration for admission. Official transcripts will be required only after an offer of admission has been made. Do I need to uplod both the foreign language and English translations of my transcripts? Yes. Transcripts that are in a language other than English should be translated into English. The translation must be certified to be an accurate translation of the original and be notarized or otherwise authenticated. What if I have a longer writing sample than the 10-15 pages required? Please do not submit a writing sample longer than 15 pages. You may submit a chapter or excerpt of a longer paper if you prefer. Questions about the MARS-REERS Program? For further information, please email or call the Harriman Institute. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give