Columbia University in the City of New York About Contact Us Give News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give Harriman Institute Statement Russia's War on Ukraine The Harriman Institute strongly condemns the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This attack on the Ukrainian people and on Ukrainian sovereignty violates the principles of international law and has inflicted deplorable suffering and instability across the region. In these tragic times, we will continue to inform and educate, particularly in an atmosphere of authoritarianism and amplified disinformation, as articulated by Columbia University’s President Lee Bollinger. We stand with all who are so terribly affected by this crisis. Over the next days and weeks, we will announce a number of initiatives and projects to support people and scholars of Ukraine. Suggestions for where to donate can be found at Razom for Ukraine. Fellowships In recognition of the need for urgent support of Ukraine’s intellectual community in the face of Russia’s war of aggression, the Harriman Institute, along with partner organizations, has created two new fellowship programs.  Residencies in Paris The Harriman Institute, the Institute for Ideas and Imagination, and Global Centers | Paris, are sponsoring three 12-month residencies for Ukrainian writers, journalists, and creative artists for the 2022-23 academic year. Learn more >  Non-residential Fellowships The Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna, the Ukrainian Research Institute at Harvard University, and the Harriman Institute have partnered to offer non-residential fellowships for Ukrainian scholars, cultural figures, and public intellectuals. Learn more > Faculty, Students, and Alumni Speak Out About The Russian Invasion of Ukraine Foreign Policy Playlist Features Voices of Ukraine June 1, 2022 Christopher Atwood (MARS-REERS ’23) on Russia’s Violations of the U.N. Genocide Convention May 31, 2022 Madison Sargeant (MARS-REERS ’22) Writes on Polish Defence Policy for “Strife” May 31, 2022 Tanya Domi Quoted in the Guardian about Russia’s Breaches of the Genocide Convention May 31, 2022 Voices of Ukraine, Episode 9: In Conversation with The Kyiv Independent’s Lili Bivings (MARS-REERS ’23) May 26, 2022 Voices of Ukraine, Episode 8: In Conversation With The Kyiv Independent’s Toma Istomina May 19, 2022 Thomas Kent on How Russian Propagandists Have Regained Their Footing May 19, 2022 Kimberly Marten Quoted in The New Republic about NATO Expansion May 18, 2022 Elise Giuliano Quoted in Science News on Ukrainian Identity May 17, 2022 Rory Finnin on How Ukraine’s Crimean Tatars Contributed to the Idea of Ukraine as a Multiethnic Homeland May 17, 2022 See More Posts Harriman Institute Experts Mark Andryczyk Associate Research Scholar, Ukrainian Studies Program Jason Bordoff Professor of Professional Practice in International and Public Affairs and Director of the Center on Global Energy Policy Peter Clement Visiting Senior Research Scholar in the Arnold A. Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies and Adjunct Professor Alexander A. Cooley Claire Tow Professor of Political Science Ann Cooper CBS Professor Emerita of Professional Practice in International Journalism Ofer Dynes Leonard Kaye Assistant Professor of Hebrew and Comparative Literature, Dept. of Slavic Languages Timothy M. Frye Marshall D. Shulman Professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy Keith Gessen George T. Delacorte Assistant Professor of Magazine Journalism Elise Giuliano Lecturer in Political Science, Director of the MARS-REERS Program, and Director of the Program on U.S.-Russia Relations Valentina Izmirlieva Director, Harriman Institute; Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures Thomas Kent Adjunct Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs Rebecca Kobrin Russell and Bettina Knapp Associate Professor of American Jewish History; Co-Director, Institute for Israel and Jewish Studies Valerii Kuchynskyi Adjunct Professor of International Relations Robert Legvold Marshall D. Shulman Professor Emeritus, Department of Political Science Lawrence Markowitz Visiting Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs Kimberly Marten Professor of Political Science, Barnard College Olena Martynyuk Petro Jacyk Postdoctoral Research Scholar in Ukrainian Studies Alexander Motyl Adjunct Professor Matthew Murray Adjunct Professor of International and Public Affairs Lara Nettelfield Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Human Rights Ukrainian History & Culture Recommended Readings In Isolation: Dispatches from Occupied Donbas by Stanislav Aseyev (HURI Books, 2022) Mondegreen: Songs about Death and Love by Volodymyr Rafaienko (HURI Books, 2022) Apricots of Donbas by Lyuba Yakimchuk (Lost Horse Press, 2021) The Gates of Europe: A History of Ukraine by Serhii Plokhy (Basic Books, 2021) The Orphanage – A Novel Set in the Donbas War by Serhiy Zhadan (Yale University Press, 2021) The Burden of the Past: History, Memory, and Identity in Contemporary Ukraine by Malgorzata Glowacka-Grajper and Anna Wylegała (Indiana University Press, 2020) Imperial Urbanism in the Borderlands: Kyiv, 1800-1905 by Serhiy Bilenky (Harvard Ukrainian Studies, 2019) Ukraine: A Book of Essays by Intellectuals in English (Ukraine World, 2019) Ukraine and Russian: From Civilized Divorce to Uncivil War by Paul J. D’Anieri (Cambridge University Press, 2019) The Famine of 1932-1933 in Ukraine: An Anatomy of the Holodomor by Stanislaw Kulchytsky (Canadian Institute of Ukrainian Studies Press, 2018) My Final Territory: Selected Essays by Yuri Andrukhovych (University of Toronto Press, 2018) Red Famine: Stalin’s War on Ukraine by Anna Applebaum (Penguin Random House, 2018) Ukraine and Europe, edited by Giovanna Brogi Bercof, Marko Pavlyshyn, Serhii Plokhy (University of Toronto Press, 2017) The White Chalk of Days: The Contemporary Ukrainian Literature Series Anthology compiled and edited by Mark Andryczyk (Academic Studies Press, 2017) Words for War: New Poems from Ukraine edited by Oksana Maksymchuk & Max Rosochinsky (Academic Studies Press, 2017) Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin by Timothy Snyder (Basic Books, 2010) Questions about Ukrainian Studies at Columbia University? For more information about courses or the Ukrainian Studies Program, please contact Mark Andryczyk or send us an email. With questions about the Ukrainian Film Club reach out to Yuri Shevchuk. Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Name * First Last Email * Message * SEND MESSAGE Harriman Institute at Columbia University 420 W 118th Street, 12th Floor, MC3345 New York, NY 10027 212-854-4623 harriman@columbia.edu Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Subscribe To Our Newsletter Sign up to receive Harriman Institute news and updates about events. Success! Name Email Subscribe © 2021 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. I AGREE Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT News Russia’s War on Ukraine COVID-19 Guide Read Latest News Spotlight Interviews Harriman Magazine Watch Event Videos Listen Voices of Ukraine Podcast Expert Opinions Podcast Events All Upcoming Events 75th Anniversary Conferences Exhibits Events by Region Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Speaker Series Anti-Kleptocracy Forum Contemporary Culture New York Russia Public Policy U.S.-Russia Relations The Work of Care in Russia World Leaders Forum Annual Lectures Allworth Memorial Lecture Harriman Lecture Research Research Regions Balkans Central Asia East Central Europe Russia Ukraine Visitor Programs Human Rights Advocates Paul Klebnikov Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Visiting Faculty Visiting Scholars Writers in Residence Projects & Initiatives Black Sea Networks Carnegie Russian Studies Program Cold Wars and the Academy University Consortium U.S.-Russia Relations Library Resources Bakhmeteff Archive Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Harriman Publications Archive New York Public Library People Study at Harriman Admissions BA/MA Admissions MARS-REERS Admissions Undergraduate Studies BA/MA Program Regional Studies Major Graduate Studies Harriman Certificate Masters Program (MARS-REERS) SIPA Regional Specializations Harriman Courses Fall 2021 Course List Spring 2022 Course List Funding Faculty PepsiCo Fellowships Publication Grants Tymkiw Fellowship Students Graduate Undergraduate Postgraduates First Book Subventions About Contact Us Give