Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip Navigation UConn University of Connecticut Search University of Connecticut Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Search Hartford Menu Press enter to search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Aid Visiting Campus Admitted Students Scholarships About Overview of Campus Director’s Welcome Campus Administration Advocacy & Engagement Maps and Directions Parking & Transportation Academics Faculty Directory Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Programs Academic Resources Student Life Student Involvement Student Resources Campus Safety Info For Current Students Faculty and Staff Veterans and Military Alumni APPLY VISIT GIVE Our Campus UConn Hartford interweaves top-tier academic programs with the vitality and unique educational and service opportunities offered by Connecticut’s capital city. Our campus is integrated with the Hartford Public Library, and the surrounding neighborhood includes the Wadsworth Atheneum, Connecticut Science Center, Connecticut Convention Center, and City Hall. Home to a number of unique undergraduate, graduate and professional programs, UConn Hartford leverages its metropolitan setting to provide a remarkable learning environment for a diverse student population. Welcome to UConn Hartford 54% of Huskies are ethnic and racial minorities Metropolitan Campus Setting Unique Experiential Learning Opportunities 3,100+ Total Students Things To Do Our location puts our students within easy walking distance of the best Hartford has to offer. Hartford Public Library XL Center Wadsworth Atheneum Spotlight Theatres The Bushnell Hartford Stage Connecticut Science Center Connecticut Convention Center Front Street District's exciting entertainment venues and restaurants Important Deadlines Priority First-Year Student Application Deadline for Merit Scholarship Consideration. Notification of Admission Begins March 1 Dec 01 FAFSA FINANCIAL AID ELIGIBILITY Notification of Financial Awards Begins Mid-March Feb 15 FALL FIRST-YEAR STUDENT AND TRANSFER APPLICATION Admission decisions are made on a rolling basis May 01 SPRING FIRST-YEAR STUDENT AND TRANSFER APPLICATION Admissions are made on a rolling basis Oct 01 UConn News UConn Law Work on Hate Crimes Already Getting Results Standing Against Despair Anne D’Alleva Appointed Interim Provost In Memoriam: EBV Director Michael Zacchea Upcoming Events Jun 1, 2022 | 2:00 PM Writing A U.S. Style Résumé | Ask Me Anything For International Students Webex Other Jun 7, 2022 | 10:00 AM Disseminating Research Findings To Drive Action: A Workshop With Robert Wood Johnson Foundation UConn Hartford, HTB 317 Hartford Campus Jun 9, 2022 | 6:00 PM Book Release With R. Eric Thomas Hartford Public Library, 500 Main Street, Hartford Hartford Campus Jun 11, 2022 | 10:00 AM Trauma-Informed Care In The Age Of COVID-19 N/A Hartford Campus Writing A U.S. Style Résumé | Ask Me Anything For International Students Jun 11, 2022 | 10:00 AM Other - Webex 06/01/2022 Wondering how to create a U.S. style résumé? This session will cover basic résumé formatting guidelines, résumé sections, how to write bullet point statements, and résumé compatibility with Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS). The discussion will address specific concerns for international students, including: - Tips for providing an international frame of reference - How to highlight strengths as a global student - What to include/omit on a résumé - Examples of undergraduate and graduate résumés for international students We welcome questions and participation in this engaging session. Registration link: https://uconn-cmr.webex.com/uconn-cmr/j.php?RGID=r8d73f23eddf24d664f80d533a2bd538e For questions, reach out to Desirée Martino at desiree.martino@uconn.edu. Close Disseminating Research Findings To Drive Action: A Workshop With Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Jun 11, 2022 | 10:00 AM Hartford Campus - UConn Hartford, HTB 317 06/07/2022 Disseminating Research Findings to Drive Action: A Workshop with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Tuesday, June 7, 2022 10am – 4pm (Lunch Provided) UConn Hartford, HTB 317 or Virtual option offered *Limited to 40 participants* Led By Steph Chernitskiy (she/her/hers), Communications Manager of Evidence for Action, a Signature Program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Translating and Disseminating research findings is a critical part of the scientific process. In this workshop, Steph Chernitskiy will lead participants through the Robert Wood Johnson’s toolkit for research dissemination. Participants will learn how to define and target their audience for dissemination, learn how to build relationships, create a translation plan, and implement a dissemination strategy that considers multiple outlets. The workshop will also feature a panel with Sandra Chafouleas (UConn and Collaboratory for School and Child Health), Marlene Schwartz (UConn and the Rudd Center), and Abigail Fisher Williamson (Trinity and the Center for Hartford Engagement and Research). These scholars will share how they have successfully disseminated their work to a variety of audiences. A special thanks to our co-sponsors: OVPR’s Scholarship Facilitation Fund, InCHIP, School of Public Policy, Gun Violence Prevention – Research Interest Group, Collaboratory for School and Child Health, UConn Hartford, Sustainable Global Cities Initiative, Connecticut Chapter of the Scholars Strategy Network, and The Rudd Center. Register: https://chip.uconn.edu/rwjf-workshop-6-7-22/ Close Book Release With R. Eric Thomas Jun 11, 2022 | 10:00 AM Hartford Campus - Hartford Public Library, 500 Main Street, Hartford 06/09/2022 Join bestselling author R. Eric Thomas for the release of his new book, Kings of B'more, which tells the story of two Black queer best friends who face their last day together with an epic journey through Baltimore in this magnetic YA debut. Register her: http://bit.ly/KingsofBmore If you require special accommodations to take part in this program, please call 860-695-6377 at least two weeks in advance. This event is sponsored by the Hartford Public Library and supported by The Hartford Foundation's Equality Fund for LGBTQ+ Close Trauma-Informed Care In The Age Of COVID-19 Jun 11, 2022 | 10:00 AM Hartford Campus - N/A 06/11/2022 SSW Continuing Education live webinar. For more information or to register, please visit: https://ssw.uconn.edu/2022/04/24/trauma-informed-care-covid/ Close All Events » Home Admissions Academics Student Life Give University of Connecticut Hartford Campus 10 Prospect Street Hartford, Connecticut 06103 Phone: (959) 200-3500 Follow us on facebook Follow us on instagram Follow us on youtube Follow us on twitter Info For Current Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Veterans and Military Alumni Related Links Net ID HuskyCT Student Administration System Google Apps Email/Office365/Outlook Emergency Closing Announcements Other Important Links Digital Signage Event Services Hartford Information Technology Services Careers UConn.edu Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Accessibility Policies A-Z Index © 2022 University of Connecticut Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Aid Visiting Campus Admitted Students Scholarships About Overview of Campus Director’s Welcome Campus Administration Advocacy & Engagement Maps and Directions Parking & Transportation Academics Faculty Directory Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Programs Academic Resources Student Life Student Involvement Student Resources Campus Safety Info For Current Students Faculty and Staff Veterans and Military Alumni APPLY VISIT GIVE Press enter to search