Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Education & Opportunities Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Masters in Forest Science Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering Graduate Students The major graduate program for advanced study offered at the Harvard Forest is the Masters in Forest Science (not currently accepting students)﻿, which is a thesis-oriented program based in Petersham through the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University. Graduate students from Harvard and other U.S. institutions who are interested in conducting research as part of the Harvard Forest Long-Term Ecological Research Program are eligible for biannual research support grants to cover supplies, travel, lodging, and more. Contact LTER PI Jonathan Thompson to learn more. Intensive programs offered during course recess are open to Harvard graduate students, including Winter Break Week. Doctoral programs offered through other departments at Harvard provide additional opportunities for research at the Harvard Forest in conjunction with scientists based there. These departments include Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Earth and Planetary Science, and the Graduate School of Design. In addition, a number of scientists at the Forest hold adjunct status at the Department of Natural Resource Conservation at the University of Massachusetts (UMass DNRC) where they serve as advisors for students pursuing either the MS or PhD degrees. ﻿ DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS