Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Visit Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Accessibility at Harvard Forest Harvard Forest and the Fisher Museum are dedicated to ensuring an accessible and welcoming environment for all visitors. Entrance The front entrances to the Fisher Museum and Shaler Hall (Harvard Forest's main building) at 32 North Main Street are not accessible using wheelchairs or other mobility devices. Multiple steps lead up to each entrance. An accessible entrance is located at the rear (east side) of the main building. The distance from the Shaler Hall front entrance to the accessible entrance is 200 feet. Driving Directions and Additional Maps Directions to the Harvard Forest | Harvard Forest Trails & Recreation | Harvard Forest Parking An accessible parking space is available alongside the universal access ramp at the rear of the building. The accessible entrance is equipped with an automatic door opener. Restrooms Accessible restrooms are available. Service Animals Service animals are welcome. Requesting Accommodations The Harvard Forest welcomes individuals with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. If you require visitor accommodations or assistance with trail accessibility, please contact hfvisit@fas.harvard.edu or 978-724-3302, preferably at least one week in advance of your visit. Please be advised that this email and phone number are not monitored over the weekend or on holidays. University Disability Services For more information about accessibility services at Harvard University:﻿ University Disability Resources (harvard.edu) DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS