Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Visit Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Trails & Recreation Maps Harvard Forest contains 3,850 acres and many miles of public trails. Maps are available in hard copy at the Fisher Museum, or can be downloaded here: Gate map of all Harvard Forest roads and trails (last updated Nov. 2021) Map of roads and trails on the Prospect Hill tract Parking is available in front of the Fisher Museum (324 North Main Street, Petersham) for the Prospect Hill tract and just off Route 122 at the east and west edges of Harvard Pond for the Tom Swamp tract. Hunting in accordance with Massachusetts law is allowed on most Harvard Forest properties. Trail visitors and their pets should wear blaze orange from Oct. 16 to Dec. 30 (though no hunting is allowed on Sundays).﻿ Learn more about our policies. Natural History and Ecology Trails A self-guided ecology and history trail (new in 2016) begins at the Fisher Museum and covers 2.5 miles. Printable brochure for the French Road Trail. A self-guided nature trail begins at the Fisher Museum and covers 0.5 miles (marked with red blazes). Printable map of the Sanderson Farm Natural History Trail. ﻿﻿Please note that the 1.5-mile, yellow-blazed Black Gum Trail has been closed to the public due to the hazard presented by dying hemlock trees (learn more about the hemlock woolly adelgid). Guided tours are available on a limited, staff-available basis. A field guide to the plants of the Harvard Forest is available, as is a more recent update to include the plants of the Harvard Farm. An Important Note about the Witness Tree Some of you may have heard of Harvard Forest because of the Witness Tree (learn more about that project here). We ask that you do not seek to find and visit the Witness Tree for two reasons: 1) it is purposefully located off the beaten track, in a research area that is filled with wires and delicate equipment that can be easily tripped over and dislodged, disrupting the important work underway, and 2) foot traffic is hard on forests. Trampling the plants in the pathway near and around the tree can disrupt our research. We ask that if you visit the Harvard Forest, you stick to designated trails, and marvel at the incredible, 100+ year-old oak trees that surround you there. Do's and Don'ts Hiking, cross-country skiing, and snow-shoeing are allowed on all roads/trails. Mountain biking and horseback riding uses are limited; signs on trails designate where biking and horseback riding are permitted. Permissions are also reflected on our trail maps. Motorized recreation is prohibited. Camping and fires are prohibited. Dogs are allowed on Harvard Forest trails, but must be leashed or under strict voice command at all times. Parking is available in front of the Fisher Museum for the Prospect Hill tract and just off Route 122 at the east and west edges of Harvard Pond for the Tom Swamp tract. Hunting is allowed on most Harvard Forest properties. Learn more about our hunting policies, and click here to learn the dates of hunting seasons in Massachusetts for various species﻿. People and pets should wear blaze orange while walking on trails during hunting season.﻿ Visitors are requested to stay on the trails and must not disturb any research equipment, materials, or markers. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS