Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Visit Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Volunteer at the Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Fisher Museum Since 1941, the Fisher Museum has been free and open to the public, offering information on forest ecology, landscape history, and land conservation and management. PLEASE NOTE: As of April 4, 2022, the Fisher Museum is now reopened to the public. To help protect visitors and staff, face coverings are recommended for all visitors aged 2 and up. Please do not enter our facilities if you are unwell or experiencing any symptoms of COVID-19.﻿﻿ Recreational trails remain open to the public. Questions? Email HFoutreach@fas.harvard.edu or call 978-724-3302.﻿﻿ Exhibits The primary exhibit is 23 internationally acclaimed models (dioramas), the first seven of which depict 230 years of landscape change in central New England, beginning with European colonization in 1700. The remaining dioramas portray 20th-century forest management techniques and a series of conservation challenges including erosion and fire. Additional displays now bring the story up to modern times and include a brief overview of current Harvard Forest research. New displays in 2022 include: A new panorama honoring Nipmuc land stewardship and collaboration New displays in 2020 included: A digital "modern diorama" constructed via high-tech LIDAR scans of Harvard Forest research sites, created by Peter Boucher in the Schaaf Lab at the University of Massachusetts--Boston. Footage of the dioramas being built by the Guernsey and Pitman studio in the 1930s. A family-friendly scavenger hunt is available to encourage viewers to take a closer look at the highly detailed dioramas. Resources Browse a 1936 booklet describing the dioramas' construction. Read more about the story in the dioramas. Download high-resolution images of the dioramas. Watch a video about the history of the Harvard Forest or read the transcript. Explore a multimedia project by HF Artist in Residence Roberto Mighty, called First Contact, portraying the 17th-century clash between Nipmuc people and the Europeans who colonized their homeland. Trails Maps in the Museum introduce visitors to the Forest's extensive system of trails - open 365 days a year - that provide additional opportunities for learning. Accessibility The Harvard Forest welcomes individuals with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about the physical access provided, please contact us at hfvisit@fas.harvard.edu in advance of your visit. Please note that accessible parking and a universal access ramp are available at the rear of the building. Driving Directions to the Fisher Museum Please note: No public transportation goes to the Fisher Museum. Dioramas Pre-Settlement Forest An Early Settler Clears a Homestead Height of Forest Clearing and Agriculture Farm Abandonment "Old-Field" White Pine Forest on Abandoned Farmland "Old-Field" White Pine is Succeeded by Hardwoods A Vigorously Growing Forest of Hardwoods The Modern Forest Landscape (photograph by David Foster) Old Growth Forests Old Growth Forests 2 Wildlife Habitat in a Dynamic Landscape Accelerated Erosion with Intensive Land Use Forest Fire Forest Fire Management Early Treatment of a Hardwood Stand Improvement Cutting in A Hardwood Stand First Thinning in a Mixed White Pine - Hardwood Forest Third Thinning in a Mixed White Pine - Hardwood Forest Conversion of Cordwood to Future Sawtimber Increasing White Pine in Hardwood Stands Release of Pine From Suppression by Gray Birch Pruning White Pine to Produce Better Logs Group Selection Method of Harvesting White Pine Shelterwood Method in White Pine (right) and Hardwoods (left) Construction of Dioramas All Dioramas >> Museum Hours Monday - Friday 9am - 4pm Saturday - Sunday 12pm - 4pm, May - October Or by special arrangement Call (978) 724-3302 The Fisher Museum is closed on Harvard University holidays. Volunteering On summer and fall weekends, we rely on a group of committed volunteers to keep the Fisher Museum open to the public. Learn more about volunteering at the Fisher Museum. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS