Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Education & Opportunities Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Current Bullard Recipients Former Bullard Scholars Accepted Bullard Login Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering Charles Bullard Fellowship in Forest Research﻿ The Charles Bullard fellowship program supports advanced research and study by individuals who show promise of making an important contribution, either as scholars or administrators, to forestry and forest-related subjects including biology, earth sciences, economics, politics, administration, philosophy, humanities, the arts, or law. The fellowship is a highly competitive program that only accepts 5 to 7 recipients a year from a large applicant pool. View the listing of past fellowship recipients or learn more about this year's Bullard Fellows. Applications will open 1 September 2022 for fellowship opportunities in 2023-2024 Before applying, please review the following (scroll down the page to see the sections): Qualifications Fellowship Scope Program Affiliations Stipends Duration Application Procedure Fellowship Location Taxes Health Insurance International Fellows Accepted Bullard Login Harvard requires COVID vaccination for all Harvard community member who have any on-campus presence. Information about this requirement and exceptions: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information **Please note that applications for the 2023-2024 academic year will be due by October 1, 2022.** Qualifications Bullard Fellowships are generally awarded to individuals in mid-career who have established themselves in academia, public service, or in the private sector. For those in academic careers, preference is ordinarily given to holders of doctoral degrees, but others whose projects show promise of important contributions to forestry and forest studies, broadly defined, will be considered in terms of the likelihood that study and research at Harvard will help fulfill this promise. Judgments of the Committee are based primarily on the quality of the applicant's professional accomplishments, academic record, and potential benefits from interaction with the Harvard Forest community and its institutional resources. Please note: This is not a post-doctoral program; recent PhD graduates are generally not appropriate candidates for a Bullard Fellowship. Fellowship Scope Research areas include forest ecology, tree physiology, soil biogeochemistry and microbial ecology, forest resource management, conservation and biodiversity, land use planning, and public policy.﻿ Fellowships are occasionally awarded in the arts and environmental humanities. Please note that proposals in the arts and humanities must demonstrate a strong connection to the research at Harvard Forest. Program Affiliations A major goal of the Bullard Fellowship program is to enhance research activities at Harvard Forest and build long-term collaborations that connect Harvard Forest with other parts of the University. Fellows can be based at the Harvard Forest or associated with other departments and centers at Harvard﻿ University. Potential fellows are encouraged to contact appropriate Harvard collaborators well in advance of the application deadline. Previous Fellows have collaborated with researchers and faculty at: Harvard Forest, Petersham Arnold Arboretum, Jamaica Plain Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Harvard Business School Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Kennedy School of Government Harvard University Center for the Environment (HUCE) or a combination of these research institutions Stipends The Fellowships carry stipends up to $60,000; the amount of each award depends on the duration of the Fellowship. Fellows have the option of having the award paid either to themselves or to the Fellow's employer. In most cases, the stipend will supplement income received for devoting a period to research, e.g., sabbatical leave pay for an individual in academic life, appointments with federal support for training of individuals in federal public service, or educational leave with pay for individuals in the private sector. Fellowships are not intended to provide significant funds for original research. Please consider the information regarding costs discussed in the following sections: Fellowship Location, Taxes, Travel Reimbursement, Supplies Budget, Health Insurance and International Fellows. Travel Reimbursement All Bullard Fellows will be reimbursed for the costs of one round trip travel between their Fellowship site location and their home base. Reimbursement will be either the actual airfare or mileage (at rate determined by the IRS) between the two, whichever is lower. Bullards are responsible for the travel costs of any people accompanying them. Supplies Budget Each Fellow award includes $500 in support for related supplies of their Bullard Fellowship Activities. Duration Fellowships may start at any time after September 1. Fellowships are typically 6 - 12 months in duration.﻿ The application requires: A completed web-based application form Contact information for 3 references who can give a perspective on the applicant's proposed program and their personal and professional qualifications for carrying it out. Recommenders should submit their recommendation letters for the 2022-2023 program via the secure online application system by December 18, 2021﻿ (a 3 day grace period post deadline). A statement of research describing the applicant's professional career to date, proposing a research program at Harvard and evaluating this program in terms of its potential contribution to the applicant's future professional career (5 page single spaced maximum is requested). CV (no more than 5 pages) including the following: Colleges and universities; dates of attendance and degrees received﻿ Professional positions held since graduating college Academic prizes and honors, if any Significant books, articles, reports, etc.﻿ Significant education and outreach activities (NSF calls these "synergistic activities") Artists should provide a link to an on-line portfolio of their work Deadline: Applications for the 2022-2023 program must be completed with accompanying documentation by December 15th, 2021 at 5 pm EST. References are accepted until December 18th Midnight EST. Successful candidates are notified around mid-March. For additional information: e-mail hfapps@fas.harvard.edu. Fellowship Location The Bullard Fellowship is a residential program and Fellows are expected to spend a substantial portion of their Fellowship based at either Harvard Forest in Petersham, Massachusetts or at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Bullards who expect to spend more than a week or two traveling during their Fellowship should include details in their application. Fellows based at Harvard Forest will have a variety of resources available to assist with their Fellowship projects: Research Resources: weekly seminars and lab groups (September - April), library, archives, LTER Annual symposium (March), office space, local telephone service and basic office supplies at no cost. Housing: The Forest has furnished housing available for Bullards for $900-$1,600 per month for 1 to 5 bedroom units. Local Transportation: Harvard Forest is located in a rural area. As there is no local public transportation, Bullards must have their own vehicle for transportation. The costs of obtaining a vehicle including insurance ($750-$1,500 annually); purchase of the vehicle ($5,000+) as well as maintenance and gas. Bullards are responsible for purchasing their own vehicle. Petersham has many resources for its residents. Fellows based in Cambridge will need to make arrangements with their proposed collaborators for access to an appropriate office and/or lab space. Cost considerations should include research support costs (e.g. photocopying, office telephone, fax, office supplies, travel, lab/research/field supplies) and housing ($1,500-3,000/month, based upon size and location of unit). One source for housing convenient to Harvard's Cambridge campus is http://www.hio.harvard.edu/housing﻿. Taxes Bullard Fellows are not considered employees of the University and receive no fringe benefits. For U.S. Citizens, taxes are not withheld by HU. Instead, Bullards are expected to make their own arrangements to pay income taxes via quarterly payments to the IRS. International Bullards (on J visas) should note that HU will withhold an income tax up to 14% of their stipends unless there is a tax treaty between their home country and the US which reduces or waives this requirement. See Harvard Office of Controller for more information. Health Insurance Massachusetts state law requires all residents to also have health insurance. Therefore, Bullards without insurance may wish to look at purchasing health insurance through: Massachusetts Health Connector. The Health Connector is Massachusetts' health insurance Marketplace where individuals, families, and small businesses can shop among the state's leading health insurance carriers and choose the right plan to meet their needs and budget. Insurance purchased through Mass Health Connector can cost between $300 to $500 per month for a single person and $1000 to $3000 per month for a family of 4 based in Petersham. Note that moving to Massachusetts to begin your fellowship is a "triggering event" allowing you to obtain insurance outside the standard open enrollment period. Insurance Plans outside of Harvard. This is a list of policies suggested by the Harvard International Office as providing health insurance policies suitable for international scholars who must have health insurance as a condition of their visa. These policies are also available for US citizens but may be less comprehensive than MHC. All information regarding insurance is provided to assist Bullard applicants with planning and budgeting but the availability of insurance, its suitability and cost may greatly vary depending on individual circumstances. All insurance costs are the Bullard's responsibility. ﻿ International Fellows International researchers have additional considerations when applying for a Bullard Fellowship, such as the visa process, logistics, and financial implications. All potential international Bullards should consult the Harvard International Office web site (www.hio.harvard.edu), which includes information about visa policies, taxes and health insurance, as well as other helpful topics. Costs specific to international scholars vary with the length of the fellowship but include visas (up to $1,500 per person), up to 14% income taxes, health insurance ($300 to $500 per month for a single person and $1000 to $3000 per month for a family of 4 based in Petersham), and the travel to the United States for their families. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS