Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Visit Visit Directions Directions From Harvard Forest Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Directions to the Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is located in Petersham, a small rural town in north central Massachusetts. Our location is 70 miles west (1.5 hours of driving, without traffic) of the main Harvard University campus.﻿ Driving Directions *Please note: Do not try to find Harvard Forest or the Fisher Museum by typing "Harvard Forest" into a GPS. You must enter the address: 324 North Main Street, Petersham, MA. From Boston - Points East: 70 miles west on Route 2 to exit 75 (formerly exit 17), then three miles south (take a right off the exit) on Route 32. Harvard Forest is on the left. From Worcester: 25 miles north west on Route 122 and then 3 miles north of Petersham Center on Route 32. Harvard Forest is on the right. From Points North, South and West: Take Interstate 91 to Greenfield and travel east on Route 2 approximately 25 miles to exit 75 (formerly exit 17)﻿. The Forest is 3 miles south (right off of exit) on Route 32. Harvard Forest is on the left. Note: Accessible parking for Fisher Museum and Shaler Hall (the Forest's main building) and a universal access ramp for building entry are available in the rear of the building. The accessible entrance is equipped with an automatic door opener. Entering at the north entrance of the parking lot (coming from Rt. 2), drive past the parking area and turn right behind the building. From the south entrance of the parking lot, drive past the building through the parking lot, and at the end of the building turn right and then right again to go behind the building. Please be mindful of pedestrians on the campus. View Larger Map Closest Public Transportation There is NO public transportation directly to Harvard Forest. You will need to arrange pick up from these local sites. Commuter Rail in Fitchburg (40 min.) Train Station in Amherst (40 min.) Bus Station in Amherst (40 min.) Airports-All equidistant at ~ 90 mins Bradley Airport (BDL) - Windsor Locks, CT Logan Airport (BOS) - Boston, MA Manchester Airport (MHT) - Manchester, NH Shuttle Service Travelers often use Airport Plus for their transportation to and from Harvard Forest. Contact them direct at: (toll free) 888-939-8277 or (local) 978-939-8277 or email airportplus@gmail.com 508-479-3267 (Colleen's Cell) 508-479-3268 (Brian's Cell) DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS