Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Education & Opportunities » K-12 & Schoolyard LTER K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Field Trips & Tours Field-Trip Resources Schoolyard LTER Program 2021 Summer Research (RET) Opportunity for Teachers Field Trips & Tours Fisher Museum and Harvard Forest's natural history trails and research sites can be arranged for a moderate fee, which you can learn about at the bottom of this page. Please be advised of changes to our reservation capacity for conferences and guided tours. Conferences are available. University and adult tours are available in person and virtually. Please email hf-edu@fas.harvard.edu with questions. K-12 tours are currently unavailable through summer 2022. Self-guided tours that include the Fisher Museum are available. Virtual Tours Interactive virtual tours are led by scientists and educators at the Harvard Forest. They run up to 1 hour in length and focus on an intensive eastern hemlock research area at the Harvard Forest, with guided exploration and opportunities for Q&A with students about: long-term carbon research in forest air and soils forest phenology (seasonal change) the region's major drivers of forest change, with a focus on invasive species and climate what we're learning from the Harvard Forest "mega-plot" study area Content is somewhat modular and, upon request, may also include information about natural history (with connections to the Fisher Museum dioramas), plant identification, and related topics. In Person Tours Tours range from 2-4 hours and are individually tailored to each group's background and interest. Groups may request special visits to certain habitats or study areas. Occasionally, scientsts are available to meet with groups, but more traditionally, tours are led by education staff.﻿ 15-minute film in the Fisher Museum, describing the history, forest management, and long-term ecological research of the Harvard Forest 30-minute to 1-hour tour of the Fisher Museum dioramas, emphasizing the land-use history of the region and its role in ecological research 45-minute to 1.5-hour outdoor tour of the natural history trails and/or research sites Reservation Process To inquire about a tour, please contact hf-edu@fas.harvard.edu. Nature trails with interpretive natural history signs are also available 365 days a year for self-guided exploration. Tour Fees Our primary mission at Harvard Forest is research and education for Harvard University students. Field trips for other groups - of all ages and from around the world - are led by a small group of devoted, knowledgeable, but extremely part-time employees. To cover staff time and facilities upkeep, we must charge visiting groups a fee (see below). If your school's budget cannot cover the full fee, we may be able to offer a fee reduction. Call (978) 724-3302 or email hf-edu@fas.harvard.edu. ﻿ We appreciate your support as we continue to engage a wide variety of students in the many lessons available in our Museum, research sites, and natural history trails. Tour Fees for 2022 Guided, real-time virtual tour & Q&A (1 hour): $100 DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS