Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Science Policy Exchange Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Living in Petersham Home About Us Mission History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i? You are here Home Harvard Forest > Summer Research Program - 2022 Projects Amplifying Indigenous voices at Harvard Forest Controls on Carbon Sequestration in Forests Across New England: From Plot to Landscape Scales Going Underground: Unearthing the Role of Roots and Microbes in a Changing World Group Project: Intra-specific trait variation of invertebrates across land uses and environments of the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) Group Project: The Future of Harvard Forest: Seedlings of Prospect Hill Group Project: The Future of Oak Using Landscape Ecology Tools and Provenance to Understand Socio-Ecological Systems: Environmental Justice, Hurricane Modeling, and Data Provenance DonateVolunteer? logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ? ©2018 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595? Email HFoutreach@fas.harvard.edu Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data 51oF, 11oC at 9:45am ? Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS