Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Policy & Conservation » Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Wildlands & Woodlands Wildlands & Woodlands (W&W) is a science-based conservation vision for the New England landscape. The project is led by the Harvard Forest and Highstead and is advanced by partnerships, organizations, agencies, and individuals across the region. The 2005 W&W report was written by a small group of Harvard Forest scientists. It established a scientific rationale for permanently protecting 50% of the Massachusetts landscape from sprawl and development. The 2010 W&W report, written by 20 scholars from institutions across New England, called for increasing the pace of conservation to permanently protect 70% of New England in managed and wild forests by 2060. This scale of conservation would retain and enhance the many benefits that forests currently provide, including clean air and water, tourism and recreation, and an array of forest products. The 2017 report is a broadened vision that rearticulates the basic goal of protecting 70% of New England in forests by 2060, but also calls for protecting 7% of the landscape in farmland, and makes additional recommendations for slowing and shifting development in a way that maintains the connection between communities and the land that sustains them. The W&W reports, and the Harvard Forest research supporting them, have led to significant policy changes in Massachusetts and increased conservation funding throughout New England, and are becoming increasingly relevant at the federal level and in other regions across the country. Much of this policy work is overseen by the Harvard Forest Program for Conservation Innovation and the Program for Science & Policy Integration. Visit the Wildlands & Woodlands website to learn more. Related Highlights December 15 Webinar to Highlight Benefits of Forest Conservation New Teaching Tool Guides Inquiry in Landscape Change Harvard Forest Co-Presents Award for Academic Conservation Excellence NYT Op-Ed Poses Wood Building & Forest Conservation as Climate Solutions Museum Event to Explore the Ecology of Towns & Villages View more related highlights Related Photos More Photos » DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS