Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home Higher Ed and Lab Coordinator Search 2022 Thank you for your interest in our 2022 search for a Higher Education and Laboratory Coordinator! We hope these resources will guide your consideration of the position. Questions? Please see the FAQ below, which includes contact information. The Position Full job description and link to application process Harvard University benefits information The Harvard Forest welcomes full participation by individuals with disabilities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about the physical access provided, please contact the search committee (see FAQ), or contact our administrative team at hfvisit@fas.harvard.edu. See this webpage with more complete accessibility information and building floormaps. Harvard Forest Higher Education and Laboratories Harvard Forest Summer Research Program Other Harvard Forest Programs for University Students Harvard Forest Laboratory Facilities Short Documentary: 30 years of Long-Term Ecological Research in Harvard's Wired Forest The Harvard Forest Community Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at the Forest Living here: Resources in the surrounding community FAQ This is an evolving document - check back often! How do I apply? Apply through Harvard's official job portal. When are applications due? Review of applications begins February 28, and the search will remain open until the position is filled. Who is involved in the search process? Chair: Audrey Barker Plotkin (HF Summer Program PI﻿). Contact: aabarker@fas.harvard.edu Contributors: Clarisse Hart (Director of Outreach & Education); Sydne Record (HF-SRPE Co-Director); David Orwig (Lab PI); Mark VanScoy (Interim Lab Coordinator)﻿ Are non-U.S. citizens eligible to apply? Regretfully, Harvard is unable to provide work authorization and/or visa sponsorship for foreign nationals for this position. Persons legally allowed to work in the U.S. are eligible.﻿ Do I need to include reference letters in my application? No; you only need to provide the contact information for your references when applying. Has COVID-19 policy added any logistics or considerations to this position? Harvard requires COVID vaccination and booster for all Harvard community members. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons (learn more here). When is the start date for this position? Is the start date flexible? ﻿Ideally, this position would begin in May 2022, before our Summer Program begins. However, we recognize that may not be realistic, and want to find someone for the long-term, so that is not a requirement. Is the entirety of the grade 54 pay band being considered for this position? ﻿As the position is partially grant funded, there is limited flexibility with salary. People are generally hired in the lower 3rd or 4th quartile of the salary range, with exact salary dependent on experience and considerations of internal equity at the Forest. Is this a permanent position or is it grant funded? ﻿The majority of the position is not grant-funded, and consequently the position has no end date Is a PhD overqualified for this position? If this position matches your experience and career goals, you are welcome to apply if you have a PhD. However, note that a Master's/PhD isn't required for the position, and having more credentials does not necessarily make you a more competitive candidate. ﻿ Would there be any potential to participate in/assist with ongoing research projects? This is full-time coordinator position, so there would be very limited time available to participate in research. We do conduct longitudinal research on the Summer Program outcomes, and are interested in doing more program assessment, so there would be some opportunity to participate in education research if that is of interest. Would the position be involved in teaching undergraduate courses, or arranging for other folks to teach?﻿ Faculty teach the undergraduate courses. However, the person in this position would interact with students on field trips and in supporting courses. ﻿ ﻿﻿﻿How frequently is programming (Freshman Seminar; co-curricular programs; field trips/retreats) offered for undergraduates? Would this position be responsible for developing brand new programming for each category? ﻿For Harvard undergraduates, the Freshman Seminar is offered once per year. We also host some combination of co-curricular programs each year, including a wintersession internship, interdisciplinary winter/spring recess programs, and reunion events for program alumni. We host field trips throughout the year, for Harvard courses, research labs, and student organizations. Graduate students are also eligible for many of these programs. In all, we host approximately 1,000 Harvard students annually, and another 1,000 non-Harvard students. The person in this position would help to strategize which of the existing programs to host annually, and also contribute to new programming, which would be developed collaboratively by Harvard Forest Senior Scientists, faculty, and the Director of Education and Outreach.﻿ Is there an ideal length for the cover letter?﻿ Please be sure to highlight the topics listed in the job description in your cover letter. There is not a target length, but something in the 2-3 page range would probably be long enough to address your qualifications. With dozens of research projects every year, do you have electronic systems in place for reserving/scheduling lab equipment/space, or would part of the job be developing and implementing one? ﻿We have a Research Application System to help us track and allocate resources. Do you have onsite EH&S safety training for summer undergraduates as well as researchers, or do collaborating researchers submit evidence of training from their home institutions? Everyone using the Harvard Forest laboratories completes Harvard EH&S training. Part of the laboratory coordinator position is maintaining a lab roster. ﻿Is there opportunity for career development or growth within HF from this position? Yes. The previous incumbent was promoted twice over ten years as they took on increasing levels of responsibility for the program. That said, Harvard Forest is a small organization, and so moving to a new position within Harvard Forest can be challenging as turnover is generally low. ﻿﻿ Are there other positions available at Harvard Forest? See our employment page. Do you have a question that hasn't been answered here? Submit an anonymous question for the search committee. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS