Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Science Policy Exchange Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Living in Petersham Home About Us Mission History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i You are here Home » News & Events News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights HF in the News Harvard Forest is regularly featured in the news media. Select features are listed below. If you are a member of the news media seeking resources for a story, please contact Clarisse Hart, the Harvard Forest Outreach Manager, at (978) 756-6157, or browse our photo and video catalog. Media Highlights The story in the trees. By Nina MacLauglin. Boston Globe, February 9, 2018. Hemlock Hospice is an elegy for the dying New England hemlock forest. By Renée Loth. Boston Globe, December 11, 2017. Climate Scientists Watch Their Words, Hoping to Stave Off Funding Cuts. By Rebecca Hersher. The Two-Way - NPR, November 29, 2017. Measuring the Risky Feedback Link Between Soil Carbon and Global Warming. By Steve Curwood. Living on Earth, PRI's Evnironmental News Magazine, November 3, 2017. Study: New England Loses 65 Acres of Forest per Day To Development. By Fred Bever. Maine Public Radio, September 19, 2017. Browse All Highlights Browse All Media All resources sorted by date Harvard Forest Press Releases Resources sorted by Topic Biodiversity Studies Conservation and Management Ecological Informatics and Modelling Forest-Atmosphere Exchange Historical and Retrospective Studies Invasive Plants, Pests and Pathogens Physiological Ecology, Population Dynamics, and Species Interactions Soil Carbon and Nitrogen Dynamics Watershed Ecology Education Donate Volunteer logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2018 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Email HFoutreach@fas.harvard.edu Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected f Follow us on Facebook t Follow @HarvardForest on Twitter i Follow @harvard.forest on Instagram f Subscribe via RSS