Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Data & Archives Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Forest Stand Records and Operations (1907 -2006) Berry Engineering Archives Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Document Archive Since its inception in the early 1900s, the Harvard Forest has maintained extensive records of institutional research and forestry operations. These documents are permanently housed in the Harvard Forest Archives, a purpose-built, climate controlled facility. The collection consists of a variety of materials, including original research data and notes, publications and theses, a map library, comprehensive forestry and vegetation records of all Harvard Forest properties from 1907 to the present, photographs and slides, and regional records such as historical soil and forest surveys and census data. The physical records are available by permission to anyone with a valid scientific or educational purpose. To visit the archives, please follow these steps.﻿ Review the archives collection description to determine the materials of interest are available. Review the catalog to help narrow down your search for materials of interest. Contact the Archivist (email - hflib@fas.harvard.edu) to make an appointment to view the material. Mornings are the most convenient time for the archivists. Agree to follow archival rules and provide a copy of all publications and/or data generated as a result of the associated research. Review the Archives Access Policy for more specific information about your visit. NOTE: The Archives include ample table work space and power sources for laptop computers. Archival items do not circulate and are not allowed to leave the building under any circumstances, but a photocopier and scanning services are available; some data sets may also be available in electronic form in our data archive. Archives Collection Research Records include, but are not limited to: Research proposals by Harvard Forest staff (funded or not), Publications, Unpublished reports, Field notes/notebooks, copies or transcriptions Maps, Data analyses for research projects, Photographs (physical and electronic) and scrapbooks, Notes and email that provide the background and development of research Research samples (e.g. soil samples - see special section on samples archives) Conference files Harvard Forest Course materials Links to related data available online Administrative Records include: Correspondences with current and previous directors Facilities maps and documentation Deeds, gifts and donation documentation Friends of the Harvard Forest Advisory and Committee meetings Please review the Harvard Forest Archives Collection Policy to determine if materials you might wish to donate fit within the scope our collection and your expectations of their use. Archives Catalog ﻿ This catalog identifies the content and extent of research files held in the Harvard Forest Archives. This catalog also identifies maps, research samples, administrative records and visual materials. The physical records are available by permission to anyone with a valid scientific or educational purpose.﻿ Contact hflib@fas.harvard.edu if you would like to visit the archives. Highlighted Collections Stand Records On-line Detailed records of all research and forest operations are stored in the Harvard Forest Archives. A small but unique selection documenting stand records, forest operations and inventories on Harvard Forest properties since 1900 (27,571 pages) was digitized and is available online as part of a Harvard University Library Digital Initiative (LDI) project. A complete finding aid is available for these materials. Stand Records, Forest Inventories and Operations Plantation Records Prospect Hill Tract Schwarz Lot Simes Lot Slab City Tract Tom Swamp Tract Forest Inventories Forest Operations Berry Engineering Archives In 2017, Harvard forest received the contents of Berry Engineering, Inc. located in Petersham, Massachusetts for nearly a half century. The company performed operations of land surveying and civil engineering in the Central Massachusetts, North Quabbin Area.The collection includes prepared surveys, topographic maps, preliminary and definitive subdivision plans, site plans, as-built plans, mortgage surveys, subsurface sewage disposal systems, deeds and field notes. Learn more about the Berry Engineering collection and how to access it. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS