Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » About Us About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Mission & Values This language was developed as part of the Forest's 2020-2025 Strategic Plan.﻿ Mission The Harvard Forest is Harvard University’s 4,000-acre laboratory and classroom, with year-round staff dedicated to long-term science and experiential learning. Our mission is to advance understanding of biological, physical, and human systems in the New England landscape. We share our research to help guide stewardship of the planet. Vision Harvard Forest practices an open, inclusive, and collaborative approach to addressing local and global environmental challenges through excellence in science, education, and engagement with society. Values Excellence We are committed to excellence in our research, education, outreach, stewardship of our land and physical resources, and our workplace culture. We adapt our thinking and practices to meet new challenges and promote equitable opportunities. We promote and support professional development and advancement of our staff. Diversity and Inclusion We recognize that our institution is enriched by a wide range of perspectives and experiences and actively seek to create an environment where all feel included and heard. Our community members support, mentor, and learn from one other, promoting respect and empathy in all activities. The Harvard Forest is an active part of the local community that intersects with a diverse world; we strive to make our work accessible and relevant to our neighbors and broader networks. Learning from the past to inform the future We take a long-term perspective by considering the past, present, and future in our research and decision-making. We recognize the importance of research contributions from the past and consider how our actions today will impact the future. Collaboration Our collaborations cross time and disciplines. We seek and sustain productive collaborative relationships among and across many groups – staff, scientists, educators, funders, decision-makers, and community partners – to bring diverse ideas and solutions to all our work. We embrace open communication within our institution, with the larger Harvard University community, and with our many partners and stakeholders. Stewardship We champion environmental stewardship by managing our own land and natural resources sustainably. We engage with the public about the role of science and human decision-making in solving environmental challenges. We focus our research in local-to-regional contexts with input from stakeholders. We communicate our discoveries in diverse, accessible ways. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS