Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Visit Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Plan Your Visit Administrative Pages Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Tours & Conferences The Harvard Forest's conference center, including on-site housing and meeting facilities, welcomes a wide range of visitors annually for workshops, retreats, professional gatherings, and more. We also host a variety of educational programs for learners of all ages. Field trips and guided research tours showcase the Harvard Forest's varied landscape and ongoing ecological research. Through these educational programs and our conference center, we at the Harvard Forest hope to inspire the next generation of scientists and land stewards, build transformative relationships with students, faculty, and our local community, and foster long-term engagement with our visitors. These relationships guide our research and help us to better address environmental challenges in ways that are relevant to all. To create more equitable access to our facilities and accommodate a broader diversity of learners, we offer financial support to eliminate fee-related barriers to access. Further, we are working to build our own understanding of the needs of learners from all backgrounds, and working to expand racial, cultural, economic, ability, urban-to-rural, and gender diversity and representation at the Harvard Forest. Plan Your Visit Make sure you review the planning your visit section before filling out the application. Harvard Forest offers a range of amenities and activities and some of these incur a user fee. Please be advised of changes to our reservation capacity for conferences and guided tours. Moving forward, dates and times will be offered according to a group's proposed activity. Calendars with available date/time slots for each group type are provided here to streamline the reservation process.﻿ Choose the appropriate option: Educational Field Trips and Day Tours Check the calendar: K-12 tours are currently unavailable through at least Summer 2022. University and adult tours are available in person and virtually. Please email hf-edu@fas.harvard.edu to inquire. Self-guided tours that include the Fisher Museum are now available. However, our recreational trails remain open during this time. Learn more about the content of a typical guided tour. Learn more about guided tour fees. Make a reservation through our application process. Conferences, Workshops, and Courses University, non-profit, government, and professional meetings and college courses. Services may include guided tours, meeting and dining space, and overnight stays. Learn more about facilities and lodging fees. Make a reservation through our application process. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS