Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ Buildings & Museum Reopened APRIL 2022 UPDATE: As of April 4, 2022, Harvard Forest office buildings and the Fisher Museum are now open to the public. We look forward to seeing you soon! To help protect visitors and staff, face coverings are recommended for all visitors aged 2 and up. Please do not enter our facilities if you are unwell or experiencing any symptoms of COVID-19.﻿ Fisher Museum hours: Weekdays year-round 9am–4pm; Weekends May to October 12-4pm Ask a Question News & Highlights May 26, 2022 Summer Interns Arrive to Pursue 11-Week Research Projects Last weekend, during an unseasonable heat wave, 20 undergraduate interns arrived from institutions all over the US to move into Harvard Forest's largest dorm. Thus began their 11-week Summer Research Program internships, during which they will pursue mentored team projects on topics ranging from amplifying Indigenous voices in STEM to understanding controls on forest carbon sequestration. The program, now April 3, 2022 New Study and Interactive Map Point to Environmental Justice Disparities (and Solutions) in Land Conservation A new study in Environmental Research Letters shows striking disparities in the distribution of conserved land across multiple dimensions of social marginalization in New England – and creates a tool to help address them. In a New England-wide analysis, the researchers found that communities in the lowest income quartile, and communities with the highest proportions of people of color February 16, 2022 Study: Forest Edges Store More Carbon than We Knew Explore the Boston University research feature: City Trees and Soil Are Sucking More Carbon Out of the Atmosphere Than Previously Thought Read the WBUR story: Urban Forests May Store More Carbon than We Knew Photo of Luca Morreale collecting data at a forest edge in the Arnold Arboretum, by Sarah Garvey February 16, 2022 2/22 Webinar on Open Positions in Lab Management, Education The Forest is accepting applications for 2 open positions in education and laboratory coordination. The full-time Higher Education and Laboratory Coordinator will manage the year-round work of the Forest's Summer Research Program and also coordinate activities across multiple laboratories, a greenhouse, and experimental gardens. The part-time Schoolyard Ecology Program Coordinator will manage the year-round work of the Forest's K-12 Schoolyard Ecology February 15, 2022 Museum Panorama Honors Nipmuc Land Stewardship & Collaboration A new panorama in the Fisher Museum is the culmination of a year-long collaboration between community organizer Nia Holley of the Nipmuc Nation, multimedia artist Roberto Mighty, HF Director of Outreach & Education Clarisse Hart, the Vermont-based design company Shadows & Light, and the Wilmington-based printing company Advanced Imaging. The photograph, spanning a 24-foot wall in the museum, February 15, 2022 Video Series Offers Snapshots of Long-Term HF Research A new video series showcases current field research by senior scientists, post-doctoral fellows, graduate students, and undergraduates in the Harvard Forest Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Program. The series was filmed in summer 2021 by filmmaker and longtime Harvard Forest collaborator, Roberto Mighty. Watch Tracking the Carbon Power of the Woods, featuring Audrey Barker Plotkin and Bill Munger. Watch Explore Our Work IN THE WOODS Focus on Phenology https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/other-tags/phenology LONG-TERM STUDIES 85 Acres, 116,000 Trees https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/other-tags/mega-plot STUDENT PROGRAMS Winter Opportunities for Harvard Students https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/undergraduate-students CONSERVATION SCIENCE Envisioning the Future Landscape https://harvardforest-prod.ats.cloud.huit.harvard.edu/policy-land-use JOIN OUR TEAM! Jobs & Fellowships Open Now https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/employment Previous Next Wildlife Cam Previous Pause Next Wildlife Trail Cameras at Harvard Forest - Feb/March 2016 Raccoon at Night Wildlife Montage - February 2016 Turkey with Young Grazing Deer Browsing Moose Browsing Webcams Previous Pause Next NEON Bottom of Tower Harvard Farm South Hemlock Tower SW Harvard Farm North Neon Top of Tower Barn Tower EMS Tower 2 EMS Tower Hemlock Tower NE Barn Tower 2 Witness Tree Below Canopy Real Time Data Previous Pause Next 1. Temperature & Humidity 8. Snowpack 7. Water Temperature 4. Precipitation 2. Radiation 6. Wetland Water Level 5. Stream Discharge 3. Wind Speed Events at Harvard Forest See a list of our upcoming seminars & events: Spring Seminar Series Future Events Initiatives & Partner Organizations DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS