Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Data & Archives Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Remote Sensing Over the long history of the Harvard Forest, remote sensing data have been collected by various groups and agencies, and often stored in different formats and different locations. This portion of the Harvard Forest website is an effort to consolidate some of those resources in order to make them available to the user, without replicating existing infrastructure.﻿﻿ The needs of a typical user of remote sensing data can be broken down into three categories, these are: Basic access: to address the needs of basic visualization and inventory of potential remote sensing data available for the Harvard Forest region. The On-line ArcGIS Server ﻿provides an interactive visual summary of remote sensing resources available. Intermediate access: provides some level of direct interaction with remote sensing data, either through the download of easily available data sets for the region, or by creating layers of co-registered remote sensing data. These users are encouraged to use the Quick Downloads and Customized Data Sets sections of this website. Advanced access: to access data sources as they are located throughout the internet, advanced users will likely find the Sources of Remote Sensing Data link to be the most useful. On-line ArcGIS Server. A simple ArcGIS server application that provides an interactive visual summary of remote sensing resources available via this website. Data available on this server can be accessed via the Quick Downloads and Customized Data Sets links as well. Quick Downloads. A catalog of remote sensing data that can be downloaded directly to your computer. Customized Data Sets. Using the Web Coverage Service (WCS) protocol, available data over the Harvard Forest can be windowed, resampled, and downloaded in GeoTIFF format to your hard drive. Simple IDL programs are provided to demonstrate access to his resource. Sources of Remote Sensing Data. A catalog of links to various sources of remote sensing data. Users interested in contributing data to this website should contact Paul Siqueira, Brian Hall or Julie Pallant DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS