Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Data & Archives Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Research Samples The Harvard Forest Research Sample Archives currently contain over 200 boxes of soil, litter, and tree core specimens. The entire collection has been cataloged in the Samples database, which contains (for each box) an access code, list of investigators, project title, study site, date of collection, description of material, and number of specimens. A catalog of these samples is available. Contact Julie Hall if you have questions at hflib@fas.harvard.edu. Policy for Submission of Samples Samples will be accepted from HF affiliated researchers only who have submitted supporting data and metadata. Research team must submit Sample Archive Submission Form for each unique submission. Submissions must be received within one year of project completion. Storage requirements (i.e. cold storage, dry storage) must be determined at time of submission Standard box sizes and labeling locations should be used with all items. Exceptions to this policy must go through the archivist for approval. Length of storage must be determined at time of submission and/or revisited every 5 years Electronic connection to data and/or document archives databases Disposal of materials will be coordinated with original investigators if not determined at time of submission or by HF staff if investigator is no longer available. HF has the right to refuse submission due to space limitations or non-mission critical materials Materials that we cannot dispose of later due to known hazardous waste will be NOT be accepted Special disposal requirements must be identified at time of submission In some cases, a fee may be charged for storage containers, assistance and/or sampling. Policy for Use of Samples Use of samples by anyone other than project personnel must be approved in writing by the project PI (Principal Investigator) or the Director Once permission has been granted. Project PI will provide oversight with regards to amounts of materials, # of samples, etc… A fee may be charged for staff time to provide samples and help with extraction of materials. A recording of use will remain with the record DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS