Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Research Research Research Topics Conducting Research Returning Researchers Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Conducting Research The Harvard Forest welcomes research by any investigator that is compatible with the goals of the Harvard Forest research program, the integrity of the ecosystem, and the cultural and aesthetic characteristics of the site. What you need to know about doing research at Harvard Forest January 2022 update: Current status of research at Harvard Forest: Field research is happening, along with limited access to buildings, laboratories, and greenhouses. We ask that researchers interested in doing research at the Harvard Forest in 2022 contact the Site Manager before filling out a research project application (below). Harvard Forest has many resources available for visiting researchers. Please review the resources and policies below before filling out a research project application (RPA). RPAs are required for all projects at Harvard Forest. Fees for these resources are listed on the Forest User Fee Schedule.﻿ Returning Researchers If you are a returning researcher and need to request housing, update or create a new research application, please proceed to directly to login page. Research Facilities and Resources Harvard Forest provides a wide variety of research facilities both in the field and laboratory to assist in performing research on our campus﻿. Please review the full description of the research facilities, site description and any associated fees that are related to it. Field Wireless Greenhouses & Experimental Garden Laboratories Meteorological & Hydrology Stations Research Towers Biomass Heating System Herbarium Archival Research Resources (documents, research samples and library) Facility Operations and Equipment (mobile canopy access lift, heavy equipment, vehicles, and skilled woods crew staff) For more information contact the Site Manager. In addition, specific fees for these services can be found at User Fee Schedule. If you will be doing field research, please review the Field Research Checklist and Field Safety Basics. Research Policies Please review the Harvard Forest research policies before requesting use of facilities. Information Management Harvard Forest provides facilities for long-term archiving and online access to scientific data through its Data Archive. All researchers must submit copies of data and relevant documents for long-term archiving at the Forest. ﻿ For more information contact ﻿﻿Emery Boose, Information Manager. Researchers must adhere to policies for the submission of research data and metadata. Meeting Facilities Meeting space for small to large groups, with AV capabilities is available. Contact ﻿﻿Laurie Chiasson, Meeting Coordinator with questions. Fees for this service can be found in the User Fee Schedule. Housing and Accommodations Limited short and long-term housing is available for visiting researchers and staff. To request reservations, researchers must have a completed and approved RPA. Learn more about the surrounding area and staying in Petersham. Contact Laurie Chiasson, Housing Coordinator with questions. Research Project Application (RPA) Use the Research Project Application to submit a request to initiate a new project or to detail the annual update regarding ongoing research projects. Contact Audrey Barker Plotkin if you have any questions related to the Research Project Application process. All research conducted at the Harvard Forest is subject to general standards and policies of scientific conduct as well as specific policies on non-discrimination, safety, ethics, and substance abuse that govern Harvard University workplaces.﻿ DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS