Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home Schoolyard Ecology Program Coordinator Search 2022 Thank you for your interest in our 2022 Schoolyard Ecology Coordinator search! We hope these resources will guide your consideration of the position. Questions? Please see the FAQ below, which includes contact information for the search committee. The Position Full job description and link to application process Harvard University benefits information The Harvard Forest welcomes full participation by individuals with disabilities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about the physical access provided, please contact the search committee (see FAQ), or contact our administrative team at hfvisit@fas.harvard.edu. See this webpage with more complete accessibility information and building floormaps. Harvard Forest Education and Long-Term Ecological Research Program Schoolyard Ecology Program and Other K-12 Outreach Schoolyard Ecology program blog Video: Schoolyard Ecology Short Documentary: 30 years of Long-Term Ecological Research in Harvard's Wired Forest The Harvard Forest Community Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at the Forest Living here: Resources in the surrounding community FAQ (drafted by the search committee) This is an evolving document - check back often! Submit an anonymous question for the search committee. How do I apply? Apply through Harvard's official job portal. When are applications due? Priority review for applications begins February 28. Who is on the search committee / contributing to the search process? Chair: Clarisse Hart, HF Director of Outreach & Education (hart3@fas.harvard.edu) HF Senior Ecologists (and leaders in the Schoolyard Program since its inception): Dave Orwig, Emery Boose, Betsy Colburn, John O'Keefe Longtime Schoolyard Ecology teachers Kate Bennett, Jeff Sautter, and Elisa Margarita Diversity & inclusion advisor Neenah Estrella-Luna Are non-U.S. citizens eligible to apply? Regretfully, Harvard is unable to provide work authorization and/or visa sponsorship for foreign nationals for this position. Do I need to include reference letters in my application? No; you only need to provide the contact information for your references when applying. Has COVID-19 policy added any logistics or considerations to this position? Harvard requires COVID vaccination and booster for all Harvard community members. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons (learn more here). Is in-person work required for this position? Harvard has a flexible work policy, and staff safety during COVID (and always) is paramount. Although some remote work is possible, HF employees are expected to work from the office in Petersham on Wednesdays at minimum. Before COVID, nearly all Schoolyard Ecology events (teacher workshops, class field trips) took place in person at the Forest; ideally we'll be able to eventually return to this model. The term of the position says 6 months with renewal dependent on performance and funding. Can you say more about that? The ideal candidate would be interested in a long-term position. But candidates should be aware that the salary for this position is funded entirely through grants and donations: primarily through a Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) grant from the National Science Foundation, which is on a 6-year proposal cycle (next due in 2025), and two private family foundation grants which are re-proposed annually. For its 17-year duration, the Schoolyard Ecology program has been successfully funded through grants, and we hope for continued support in the future. However, contributing regularly to grant proposals and funder communucation are a key part of this position, always in an effort to secure the longevity of the position and the program. What is the start date, and is it flexible? Given that our gifted Coordinator of 17 years retired this fall, we are of course eager to get started with a new Coordinator. But we also recognize that candidates may have current teaching commitments that run through the school year. So, the short answer is that the start date is flexible. The salary range (grade 55) is based on a 35-hour work week. So what is the salary range for part-time? This part-time position is roughly a 2/3 FTE. Hopefully this will help you calculate a range! It is necessary to have university credits in education? The job simply requires that you have a bachelor's degree and 2 years of formal classroom teaching experience, so all successful candidates will have at some point achieved teaching certification, but that may not have required specific education coursework. What if you do not have grant writing experience, but are very willing to learn? Experience would be helpful but is not required. It is a skill set that can be learned on the job. Are there other open positions at Harvard Forest? See our employment page. Do you have a question that hasn't been answered here? Submit an anonymous question for the search committee. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS