Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home Web Cam The images below are from cameras located on the Prospect Hill Tract of the Harvard Forest, and also on our new farm adjacent to Prospect Hill. They are part of a network called Phenocam that links hundreds of webcams across the US and Canada to study seasonal changes in vegetation. Click on any image below to get the current larger image. Images are updated every 30 minutes during daylight hours. Explore more Harvard Forest real-time content: weather/stream data 360-degree virtual forest Barn Tower Camera height is 40 meters. View is toward the northeast. Barn Tower 2 Camera is mounted on the Barn Tower at a height of 40 meters and pointed toward the ground. Below Canopy Camera is mounted on the EMS Tower at a height of 15 meters and pointed toward the ground. EMS Tower Camera height is 30 meters. View is toward the north. EMS Tower 2 Camera height is 30 meters. View is toward the north. Harvard Farm North Camera height is 10 meters. View is toward the northeast. Harvard Farm South Camera height is 10 meters. View is toward the northeast. Hemlock Tower NE Camera height is 25 meters. View is toward the northeast. Hemlock Tower SW Camera height is 30 meters. View is toward the southwest. NEON Bottom of Tower Camera height is 3 meters. View is toward the east. Neon Top of Tower Camera height is 40 meters. View is toward the north. Witness Tree Camera is mounted at ground level (0.8 meters) and pointed upward. "Phenology"—the scientific focus of these webcams—investigates the seasonal rhythms of plants and animals. Plant phenology, including when leaves emerge in the spring and change color in the autumn, is a sensitive indicator of how a changing climate is changing natural ecosystems. Long-term phenological observations across a wide geographic range, such as those provided by this project, are important to our understanding of climate change in forests. This project informs a suite of phenology studies at the Harvard Forest and engages Harvard faculty, undergraduate researchers, and others. For more details and an archive of past images - visit the Data Archive. Learn more about the science of leaf color change.﻿ DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS