Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Support Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer Give to the Harvard Forest Thank you for considering a donation to the Harvard Forest. More than half of our operating budget for research and education comes from grants and donations. We truly rely on help like yours! There are several ways to give: Option 1: Give online using a credit card On the Harvard giving page, indicate the amount you wish to donate. Option 2: Mail a check. (Checks payable to "Harvard University", with "Harvard Forest" and any specific programs in the memo line) Mail to: Harvard Forest ATTN: Clarisse Hart, Development 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366 Option 3: Come see us in person. Donations are gratefully accepted at the Fisher Museum, or you can make an appointment with our Development Manager, Clarisse Hart (hart3@fas.harvard.edu; 978-756-6157). Note: Harvard University is a 501(c)(3), non-profit organization. All gifts are tax-deductible to the full extent allowed by law. Thank you for your support! Browse specific giving opportunities. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS