Jump to Navigation Harvard Forest Established in 1907 Harvard University's 4000 acre laboratory & classroom Long Term Ecological Research site since 1988 Research Research Topics Conducting Research Our Funding Researcher Profiles Site and Facilities LTER Current Research Research Policies Data & Archives Data Archive Document Archive Library Photos GIS & Maps Research Samples Remote Sensing Publications Research Publications Symposia Annual Reports Books for Sale Policy & Conservation Science & Policy Integration Project Program on Conservation Innovation Wildlands & Woodlands HF Land Management Sustainable Working Landscapes Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Volunteering News & Events Events In the Media Featured Projects Arts @ Harvard Forest Past News & Highlights Visit Directions Tours & Conferences Fisher Museum Trails & Recreation Accessibility Greater Harvard Forest Community Home About Us Mission & Values History Staff Contact Us Affiliations HF and the Town of Petersham Diversity and Inclusion Statement Harvard Forest Strategic Plan (2020-2025) Support Give to Harvard Forest Our Funding Volunteer FAQs Sitemap Search form Search i﻿ You are here Home » Education & Opportunities Education & Opportunities Mid-Career Fellowships Graduate Students Undergraduate Students K-12 & Schoolyard LTER Alumni Field Trips Employment Employee Information Volunteering Employment Summer Asst. Program Coordinator/Resident Advisor | Schoolyard Ecology Program Coordinator | Higher Education and Laboratory Coordinator 2022 SUMMER RESEARCH PROGRAM IN ECOLOGY ASSISTANT PROGRAM COORDINATOR/RESIDENT ADVISOR Posted March 7, 2022 (13-week position available beginning May 16, 2022) Since 1993, the Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology has been an integral part of Harvard Forest's research and education mission. In 2022, 20 undergraduate students will join the Harvard Forest community in researching the effects of natural and human disturbances on forest ecosystems. The Program Assistant works closely with the Summer Program Coordinator to organize the educational components of the program, and to provide the information, advising, support, and management required to create a hospitable academic work environment. Duties and Responsibilities (work under the supervision of the Summer Program Coordinator) Assistant Program Coordinator Assist with student arrival and orientation (May 22nd – 24th) Inform students of Harvard Forest activities, policies, and expectations Coordinate weekly evening workshops and seminars Work with Summer Program Coordinator to resolve student issues Organize Summer Student Symposium in early August Work on various tasks as needed to facilitate summer research program Resident Advisor Responsible for day-to-day activities related to the successful operation of a student residence Hold weekly house meetings Plan, organize, and direct student committees (recycling, social activities, etc.) Serve as advisor to student on matters concerning community development, conflict resolution and counseling Required Skills, Training and Experience Excellent listening, negotiation, organizational, and problem-solving skills Strong communication (verbal and written) and computer skills, comfortable using email and list-serves Capable of performing a variety of tasks simultaneously Work independently with moderate supervision Must have a valid driver's license Must have completed undergraduate degree as of Spring 2022 Additional Desired Qualifications Experience working with ethnically and culturally diverse population preferred Experience as a Resident Assistant/Advisor preferred Experience in environmental science work a plus, but note that this is an administrative, not research, position The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard's Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University's COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University's "COVID-19 Vaccine Information" webpage Time Commitment and Compensation Compensation is $17/hour for 40 hours per week for 13 weeks (May 16 to August 12, 2022); start date is firm and must be on-site. The assistant has a private room (room and board provided), shared office space with computer and access to Harvard Forest vehicles. The position requires on site residence with weeknight and weekend work. Application Apply by sending bundled PDF cover letter, resume and contact information for three references to hfapps@fas.harvard.edu SUBJECT LINE: ASSISTANT PROGRAM COORDINATOR/RESIDENT ADVISOR. For full consideration, submit your application materials by March 25, 2022. Additional information about Harvard Forest and the summer program is available at http://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu. No phone calls, please. The Harvard Forest Community Harvard Forest is committed to establishing and maintaining a diverse and inclusive community that collectively supports and implements our mission: the investigation, understanding, and communication of the ways in which physical, biological, and human systems interact to change our Earth.  All should feel that they are critical parts of the Harvard Forest community—whatever their identity groups—while working, studying, visiting, or living here.  We will welcome, recruit, develop, and advance talented staff, students, and visiting scholars from diverse backgrounds, and strive to ensure that all are included in our mission. Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Harvard is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Applications from women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions or any other characteristic protected by law. Higher Education and Laboratory Coordinator Posted Feb. 16, 2022 Job Summary The Harvard Forest is Harvard University's 4000-acre laboratory and classroom, with year-round staff dedicated to long-term science and experiential learning. Our mission is to advance understanding of biological, physical, and human systems in the New England landscape. Experiential education programming for Harvard and non-Harvard students is a key component of this mission. The Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology is our signature program; we also plan to expand our academic-year offerings and programming for graduate students conducting research at Harvard Forest. The laboratory facilities and greenhouses at Harvard Forest support education and research by internal and external researchers, visiting scholars, and graduate and undergraduate students. We seek an individual with experience in higher education programming and laboratory management, who has a passion for making the field of ecology more inclusive, to coordinate Harvard Forest's higher education programs and laboratory facilities. Job-Specific Responsibilities Under the supervision of Harvard Forest's Summer Program PI, and in partnership with HF Director of Education and Outreach and the HF Laboratory PI, the Coordinator will: Coordinate Education Programs (75%) Manage the year-round work of the Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology (HF SRPE) program: Support students' development of research and professional skills during the 11-week residential program: coordinate educational programming; facilitate small group or one-on-one conversations with students and mentors to resolve issues related to the research, education, and community aspects of the program Interview, hire, and supervise seasonal support staff (summer program assistant(s); kitchen staff) Coordinate program logistics year-round: serve as point-of-contact for communications about the program; work with program leadership to recruit and communicate with mentors; work with administrative staff to manage program budget and financial transactions; coordinate student recruitment and hiring; develop program calendar Represent Harvard Forest in undergraduate education/research across different networks and groups; share research findings at national meetings and in publications Manage education research study, including updating, reporting, and compliance for IRB; contribute to analyses and publications from this research Engage a diverse cohort of Harvard undergraduates in long-term research and scholarship using Harvard Forest field sites and resources (e.g. Freshman Seminar; co-curricular programs; field trips/retreats) Support graduate students from Harvard and collaborating institutions in accessing research and mentoring opportunities at Harvard Forest Contribute to grant proposals and program strategic planning, including working with colleagues to coordinate Harvard Forest's education programming, from K-12 to adults. Work with HF SRPE leadership and other colleagues to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion Coordinate Laboratory, Greenhouse, and Common Garden Facilities (25%) Coordinate all activities across multiple labs, a greenhouse, and common gardens. Manage the day-to day operations of the laboratory, including: Serve as Laboratory Safety Officer for all labs at HF Oversees lab safety, including tracking of chemicals and hazardous materials and enforcing PPE policy as well as ensuring all researchers receive proper safety training and follow lab procedures. Responsible for management and disposal of hazardous waste for Harvard Forest Responsible for training all lab users; Maintain lab roster, including onboarding and off-boarding both Harvard and external researchers Review research proposals and coordinate research space use among multiple projects Recommend improvements to laboratory facilities; Advise HF Laboratory PI on budgetary decision making and financial transactions for laboratories; work with finance staff on billing and invoicing Manage all lab equipment service, maintenance, and purchasing. Basic Qualifications At least two years' experience working in higher education programming At least one year of experience working in a laboratory Additional Qualifications and Skills Bachelor's degree in environmental sciences or higher education preferred; advanced degree strongly preferred Excellent written communication skills Experience in providing a welcoming and encouraging environment for a diverse range of students and researchers Demonstrated interest in Harvard Forest's research program Demonstrated commitment to diversity, inclusion, and collegiality Experience with program evaluation and longitudinal assessment Experience writing grants Experience working in a research greenhouse Experience serving as a lab safety officer Working Conditions The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard's Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University's COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University's "COVID-19 Vaccine Information" webpage. Additional Information This is a full-time (35 hours/week), benefits-eligible position. During the Summer Research Program in Ecology, this position needs to be on-site five days a week. A flexible or hybrid schedule would be possible the rest of the year; Harvard has an established Flexwork policy. Currently all staff at Harvard Forest are on site a minimum of one day a week. Unfortunately, Harvard University cannot sponsor international visas for this position. To Apply Please submit a CV, cover letter, and contact information for three references. The cover letter should highlight the following: Reasons for interest in this position and in working at Harvard Forest Experience in higher education programming Experience in laboratory Experience working with diverse students, and DEI philosophy Any additional qualifications (including but not limited to grant-writing and education research/longitudinal assessment) Application review will begin on February 27th; the position will remain open until filled. To view an FAQ, submit an anonymous question, and find information about a webinar Q&A with the search committee on February 22, visit https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/higher-ed-and-lab-coordinator-search-2022. You may also direct questions to Audrey Barker Plotkin, Senior Scientist & HF Summer Research Program PI, at aabarker@fas.harvard.edu. Harvard University offers an outstanding benefits package including: Time Off: 3 - 4 weeks paid vacation, paid holiday break, 12 paid sick days, 12.5 paid holidays, and 3 paid personal days per year. Medical/Dental/Vision Retirement: University-funded retirement plan with full vesting after 3 years of service. Tuition Assistance Program: Competitive tuition assistance program, $40 per class at the Harvard Extension School and discounted options through participating Harvard grad schools. Child Care: Limited scholarship funds are available to help defray the cost of child care. Awards are based on household income. Wellness options: Harvard offers programs and classes at little or no cost, including stress management, massages, nutrition, meditation, and complementary health services. The Harvard Forest Community Harvard Forest is committed to establishing and maintaining a diverse, equitable, and inclusive community. We have initiated an ongoing series of staff-wide trainings and formed a standing committee to build competence in DEIB in our workplace, improved physical and digital accessibility of our campus resources, and re-examined and replaced harmful artwork. We are working toward including Indigenous knowledge and communities in our research and education, land use, and public programs, improving field safety for at-risk populations, and diversifying our team of investigators and educators. The aim of this work is to collectively support and implement our mission: the investigation, understanding, and communication of the ways in which physical, biological, and human systems interact to change our Earth, while ensuring that all participants should feel that they are critical parts of the Harvard Forest community, whatever their identity groups. We welcome, recruit, develop, and advance talented staff, students, and visiting scholars from diverse backgrounds, and strive to ensure that all are included in our mission. Harvard Forest is also committed to supporting the work-life balance of its staff. We particularly encourage applications from members of groups that have been historically underrepresented in the sciences (Black, Indigenous, and people of color, women, individuals with disabilities, veterans, LGBTQ community members) and others who demonstrate the ability to help us achieve our vision of a diverse and inclusive community. Schoolyard Ecology Program Coordinator Posted Feb. 7, 2022 Job Summary The Harvard Forest (HF) Schoolyard Ecology Program, which serves 70 teachers and 3,500+ students in grades 4-12 annually, seeks a part-time Coordinator to lead the program into its third decade. The program’s primary goal is to support educators in the U.S. Northeast to conduct authentic ecological field studies with their students, by exploring trees and ecosystems within walking distance of their schools. To date, 164 schools have submitted data from their field studies, and these data can be freely explored online. Schools from urban, suburban, and rural districts participate in the HF Schoolyard Ecology program. A core strategic goal for the coming decade is to better support teachers from urban districts in collecting field data with their students. This is part of a larger aim to empower students from all communities to recognize the importance of their home ecosystems and their local knowledge in creating a sustainable future. Another core programmatic goal is to further leverage the Forest’s deep connections with university students, scientists, and a range of land stewards – including Indigenous community leaders and conservation organizations – to offer youth a range of affirming pathways to future land stewardship and STEM careers. Our work is guided by a strong commitment to diversity and inclusion; each staff contributor brings passion, sincerity, and honest self-reflection to fulfilling the program’s vital role in cultivating the next generation of land stewards and STEM leaders, inspiring and supporting teachers as they face myriad challenges in the classroom, and honoring the people and ecosystems that sustain our work. The program is funded by the National Science Foundation’s Long-Term Ecological Research Program and annual grants from private foundations. Job-Specific Responsibilities Under the supervision of HF’s Director of Education and Outreach, and in partnership with HF ecologists and partner organizations, the Coordinator will: 75% - Manage the day-to-day work of the Schoolyard Ecology program: Organize and work with scientists to lead professional development workshops (remote and in-person) to help teachers build skills in field data collection and data analysis/graphing, and to create new opportunities for teacher peer leadership Collaborate on program development and implementation with core partners, including HF ecologists, the HF Information Manager, and fellow HF educators Work closely with professionals/allies in diversity and inclusion, to continue to develop HF Schoolyard Ecology as a welcoming, inspiring, and affirming learning space for all, and to honor more attentively the Indigenous communities whose unceded lands are the basis for our learning Liaise with partner organizations, such as conservation organizations (Mass Audubon, Connecticut Audubon), educational institutions (the Harvard Museum of Natural History, the Wade Institute for Science Education), and networks (the US LTER Network) to support collaborative events and programs Supervise and mentor program contributors throughout the year: a seasonal, part-time project coach, who supports teachers in setting up their field studies and managing their data seasonal teacher researchers (1-2 per year) completing summer RET internships with HF ecologists part-time graduate students (1 per year) contributing to HF K-12 programming Schoolyard teachers with longevity in the program, who serve as peer mentors, build curricular tools, assist with workshops, and more Communicate regularly with the program’s community of educators (classroom teachers and informal educators), maintaining a supportive two-way relationship through emails, writing and curating content for the program blog, and more 15% - In collaboration with the Education Director, contribute to federal and foundation grant proposals and program strategic planning, including work toward new initiatives to connect youth with university students and conservation leaders. 10% - Lead field trips for K-12 students (including scouts and other informal education groups) to visit Harvard Forest and the Fisher Museum, including maintaining a scholarship program to welcome groups who enrich diversity in STEM Basic Qualifications Bachelor’s degree and at least two years’ experience as a full-time, formal classroom teacher of grades 4-12, including direct experience with STEM teaching and assessment. Additional Qualifications and Skills A successful candidate will possess: Excellent written and verbal communication skills Demonstrated leadership in supporting formal and informal K-12 educators through professional development workshops and one-on-one communication Experience bringing K-12 students outdoors to learn, especially connecting students in urban communities to hands-on, outdoor STEM experiences Demonstrated commitment to diversity, inclusion, and collegiality; experience in creating a welcoming and encouraging environment for a diverse range of colleagues, students, and educators Experience in professional collaborations with scientists, Indigenous community leaders, environmental education organizations, and/or conservation organizations Demonstrated interest in environmentally focused fields. Note that our content focus tends to be driven by core HF research, such as investigating the drivers of land change in the U.S. Northeast (climate change, invasive insects, and past/present human land use) Demonstrated facility with remote programming, including leading events with web-conferencing software such as Zoom Demonstrated knowledge of NGSS and state STEM teaching standards/frameworks Experience with program evaluation Working Conditions The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard’s Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University’s COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University’s “COVID-19 Vaccine Information” webpage: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information/. Additional Information This is a grant-funded, part-time (up to 22 hours weekly), benefits-eligible position with a salary grade of 55. The initial term is 6 months, with the possibility for extension based on funding and performance. To apply, submit via the following in the Harvard Jobs portal: a resume/CV, cover letter, and a sample STEM lesson plan and assessment rubric that you have created. Application review will begin February 28, 2022; the position will remain open until it is filled. To view an FAQ, submit an anonymous question, and find information about a webinar Q&A with the search committee on February 22, visit https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/schoolyard-ecology-program-coordinator-search-2022. You may also direct questions to Clarisse Hart, HF Director of Education and Outreach, at hart3@fas.harvard.edu. The Harvard Forest welcomes full participation by individuals with disabilities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about the physical access provided, please contact the search committee (see FAQ), or contact our administrative team at hfvisit@fas.harvard.edu. Learn more about accessibility at Harvard Forest at https://harvardforest.fas.harvard.edu/accessibility-harvard-forest. Harvard University has a generous flexible work policy; at least one day per week on-site in Petersham is required. Harvard University offers an outstanding benefits package including: Time Off: 3 - 4 weeks paid vacation, paid holiday break, 12 paid sick days, 12.5 paid holidays, and 3 paid personal days per year. Medical/Dental/Vision Retirement: University-funded retirement plan with full vesting after 3 years of service. Tuition Assistance Program: Competitive tuition assistance program, $40 per class at the Harvard Extension School and discounted options through participating Harvard grad schools. Child Care: Limited scholarship funds are available to help defray the cost of childcare. Awards are based on household income. Wellness options: Harvard offers programs and classes at little or no cost, including stress management, massages, nutrition, meditation, and complementary health services. Unfortunately, Harvard University cannot sponsor international visas for this position. We particularly encourage applications from members of groups that have been historically underrepresented in the sciences (Black, Indigenous, and people of color, women, individuals with disabilities, veterans, LGBTQ community members) and others who demonstrate the ability to help us achieve our vision of a diverse and inclusive community. Harvard is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Applications from women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions or any other characteristic protected by law. DonateVolunteer﻿ logo Harvard Forest The Harvard Forest is a department of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts & Sciences and a member of the U.S. LTER Network supported by the National Science Foundation. Learn More about Our funders. logo logo logo ﻿ ©2021 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. Faculty of Arts and Sciences of Harvard University Harvard University Digital Accessibility﻿ Policy Contact Harvard Forest 324 North Main Street Petersham, MA 01366-9504 Tel (978) 724-3302 Fax (978) 724-3595﻿ Contact us Harvard Forest Weather Current Conditions & Data ﻿ Google Maps & Directions Stay Connected fFollow us on Facebook tFollow @HarvardForest on Twitter iFollow @harvard.forest on Instagram fSubscribe via RSS