Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home hazing.utexas.edu Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin hazing.utexas.edu Report Hazing Search Search Search Search Home Expand Prevention and Training Expand Current Prevention Initiatives Training Opportunities Bystander Intervention Change from Within How to Report Expand Get Support Expand Violations Expand Home Prevention and Training : Current Prevention Initiatives Current Prevention Initiatives The University of Texas at Austin is committed to eliminating hazing through research, education, and early intervention. These initiatives represent the ongoing effort to make lasting change through innovation. Wellness Network Hazing Prevention and Education Committee This committee of students, staff, faculty and community members works to change attitudes and behavior to end hazing on our campus by teaching skills and tools to prevent hazing and intervene appropriately. Hazing Prevention Consortium The University of Texas at Austin is a proud member of the Hazing Prevention Consortium led by StopHazing.org. The Hazing Prevention Consortium supports member campuses over a three-year period to develop evidence-based practices for hazing prevention through campus climate assessments, data collection and collaboration with fellow consortium member campuses Horns Against Hazing Horns Against Hazing was launched to extend hazing prevention and education to the entire campus through open invitation speaking events, and small group workshops for specific communities. Safety Education Program The peer-led Safety Education Program is a state-mandated annual training required for all student organizations. The program covers health and safety topics for student organizations, including how to identify hazing and how to report. Houston Area Parent and Family Outreach Initiative The Parent and Family Outreach Initiative provides support and education to families, incoming students, alumni, and community members in the greater Houston area. Educational initiatives are focused on raising awareness and shifting the culture of hazing in sororities and fraternities. This program is made possible by generous donor support. hazing.utexas.edu UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022