Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home hazing.utexas.edu Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin hazing.utexas.edu Report Hazing Search Search Search Search Home Expand Prevention and Training Expand Current Prevention Initiatives Training Opportunities Bystander Intervention Change from Within How to Report Expand Get Support Expand Violations Expand Home Prevention and Training : Training Opportunities Training Opportunities Student Organizations Hazing Prevention Workshop: Request a workshop personalized for your student organization to learn more about hazing and how to take action. Creating Space for Change: Request this interactive workshop to inspire your club, group or team members explore how to create healthy, meaningful relationships in your organization. Hazing Prevention Consultation: Request a small group or one-on-one staff consultation to discuss your questions, concerns, and ideas for hazing prevention in your group or club. Faculty and Staff Hazing Prevention Workshop: Request a workshop for your area to learn how to identify, intervene, and report hazing. Parents, Families and Community The Hazing Prevention Webinar for Parents and Families discusses the key concepts of hazing, hazing prevention, and provides parents and family members with the tools to help themselves and their students. After viewing the webinar, please share feedback at bit.ly/uthpfamilywebinar. Other Training Resources Leadership development and safe, welcoming environments help prevent hazing. Consider these free workshops and resources for your team, club or organization: The Leadership and Ethics Institute workshops for student organizations on leadership topics like leading with your strengths, managing conflict, and ethical leadership. Student Activities workshops and online resources on how to manage a student organization, including topics like recruitment, effective meetings, and new officer training. The Longhorn Wellness Center workshops and resources for students on mental health, alcohol, drug use, sleep, sexuality, interpersonal violence prevention, and more. BeVocal, the Bystander Intervention Initiative of The University of Texas at Austin, workshops for faculty, staff, and student organizations teach skills to prevent high risk behavior and harm. hazing.utexas.edu UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022