Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home hazing.utexas.edu Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin hazing.utexas.edu Report Hazing Search Search Search Search Home Expand Prevention and Training Expand Current Prevention Initiatives Training Opportunities Bystander Intervention Change from Within How to Report Expand Get Support Expand Violations Expand Home How to Report How to Report Report Hazing Call 911 if you or someone else is in danger. Hazing incidents need to be reported when they occur, because there is no such thing as harmless hazing. Anyone who knows of hazing activity should report it to the Office of the Dean of Students. Anyone can file a report, and all reports are investigated. Important details to include in a report are: names of people and/or organizations involved, dates, where it happened, a specific description of what happened. The University's ability to investigate hazing, enforce policy, and protect students depends accurate and specific reports. You are encouraged to provide as much specific detail as possible so that the reported behavior can be addressed. Additional Reporting Options To speak with someone about your concern, call the Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) 512-232-5050. Callers can remain anonymous. Hazing is a crime that can be reported to the University of Texas at Austin Police Department. Reporting Considerations Anonymous Reports You can report hazing anonymously, however Student Conduct officers may not be able to complete their investigation without being able to speak to the person who made the report. To make an anonymous report: call BCCAL 512-232-5050, submit an anonymous BCCAL report online, or submit an anonymous online crime tip to UTPD. Retaliation Retaliation is strictly prohibited under Institutional Rules Subsection 6-400(a)(20) and will not be tolerated. Students concerned about retaliation for reporting hazing should contact Student Conduct and Academic Integrity in the Office of the Dean of Students. Immunity Students who report hazing before being contacted by the Office of the Dean of Students; who cooperate in good faith and provide complete and factual accounts may be eligible for immunity from institutional discipline. Investigation Process All reports are investigated by Student Conduct and Academic Integrity in the Office of the Dean of Students, following the student conduct process as outlined in Institutional Rules Subchapter 6-500. hazing.utexas.edu UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022