Skip to main content Search Search Toggle Search Toggle navigation Cornell University Hazing at Cornell Close Main Menu Main navigation Definitions Prevention Reporting Violations Resources Prevention. Definitions. Reporting. Hazing is a serious public health problem that causes physical and mental harm to students at Cornell and nationwide. Consider the following university statements: President Martha E. Pollack's university statement announcing reforms for Greek Life at Cornell (December 18, 2019). President Martha E. Pollack's university statement about initiating reforms for Greek letter organizations (May 4, 2018). Vice President Ryan Lombardi's university statement about the health and safety risks of hazing (January 23, 2018). This site is a resource for students, staff, faculty, alumni, parents and others interested in learning about hazing within student groups, teams, and organizations ... and what can be done to prevent it. Highlights from this site include: Hazing is not an innocent rite of passage. It harms individuals, groups, and the University. Most students object to hazing: Overall, 91% of Cornell students believe "it's never okay to humiliate or intimidate new members." Hazing takes various forms, but typically involves physical risks or mental distress through humiliating, intimidating, or demeaning treatment. Review Cornell's hazing definition. Hazing has occurred in Cornell fraternities, sororities, athletic teams, performance groups, and other organizations. Hazing is a violation of Cornell University policy and New York State law. Groups can achieve commitment and solidarity through non-hazing means (pdf). Hazing is Never OK Humiliation and intimidation may include acts of servitude, alcohol use, sleep deprivation, isolation, eating gross stuff, or other demeaning activities. Learn more about what students think about hazing. You Can Intervene The bystander education film, "Intervene" depicts a student taking action to help a friend who is being hazed. Learn more about how you can help a friend. Joining a Group? Watch This! All of us have a need to belong. And you deserve to be treated with respect in any group, team, or organization you join. Watch this 2-minute video to see how hazing might look in some settings, and what to do about it. Our Hazing Prevention Model Cornell takes a comprehensive, public health approach to hazing prevention. Responsibility is shared by everyone on campus. Report Hazing Here Quick Links What to consider if joining a group (pdf) How to help a friend (pdf) Alcohol & Hazing: Liquid Bonding (pdf) Get Help Cornell University Police Cornell Health Student Conduct and Community Standards Victim Advocacy Emergency: call 911 Web Accessibility Assistance If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, please contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.