<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Working Knowledge Business Research for Business Leaders Browse All Articles Popular Articles Cold Call Podcast Managing the Future of Work Podcast About Us Book Leadership Marketing Finance Management Entrepreneurship All Topics... Topics COVID-19 Entrepreneurship Finance Gender Globalization Leadership Management Negotiation Social Enterprise Strategy Sections Book Podcasts HBS Case In Practice Lessons from the Classroom Op-Ed Research & Ideas Research Event Sharpening Your Skills What Do You Think? Working Paper Summaries Browse All Apple vs. Feds: Is iPhone Privacy a Basic Human Right?Apple vs. Feds: Is iPhone Privacy a Basic Human Right?    Leaders today must be ready to take a stand on thorny social and political issues. A case study by Nien-hê Hsieh and Henry McGee examines how Apple CEO Tim Cook turned calls for data access into a rallying cry for privacy, and the complexities that followed. 26 May 2022 | HBS Case Career Advice for Minorities and Women: Sharing Your Identity Can Open Doors by Pamela Reynolds 24 May 2022 | Research & Ideas Corruption: New Insights for Fighting an Age-Old Business Problem Re: Tarun KhannaRe: Geoffrey G. Jones 31 May 2022 | Cold Call Podcast Is Stakeholder Management Facing New Headwinds? by James Heskett 01 Jun 2022 | What Do You Think? Leadership Effective Leaders Share the Spotlight with Their Teams by Pamela Reynolds 07 MAR 2022 | Research & Ideas Many executives make decisions alone and take credit for every win. Research by Yuan Zou and Ethan Rouen shows how leaders—and their companies—directly benefit when they engage and elevate colleagues. When Employees Feel a Sense of Purpose, Companies Succeed by Ranjay Gulati 17 FEB 2022 | Book Corporate cultures tend to encourage conformity. At a time when employees expect more from their jobs, companies should make space for individuality, Ranjay Gulati argues in this excerpt from his book, Deep Purpose. Curiosity, Not Coding: 6 Skills Leaders Need in the Digital Age by Linda A. Hill, Ann Le Cam, Sunand Menon, and Emily Tedards 14 FEB 2022 | Research & Ideas Transforming an organization starts with transforming its leaders. Data from 1,700 executives by Linda Hill and colleagues reveals the most important skills and traits leaders need now. Digital Transformation: A New Roadmap for Success by Linda A. Hill, Ann Le Cam, Sunand Menon, and Emily Tedards 07 FEB 2022 | Research & Ideas Is your company reaping the rewards of digital transformation yet? Linda Hill and colleagues offer seven guiding principles for transformations at any stage—nascent, progressing, or stalled. Entrepreneurship Innovation Isn’t Just for Startups: How Big Companies Can Succeed by Lane Lambert 01 FEB 2022 | Book Innovation doesn't have to be limited to the Teslas and Amazons of the world. In a new book, Michael Tushman and Andrew Binns share how explorers lead change and help incumbent companies strike gold. Science: The Unlikely Frontier for New Business Ideas by Avery Forman 13 SEP 2021 | Research & Ideas Iterative R&D might get products to market quickly, but innovation grounded in scientific research tends to be more valuable, says research by Joshua Lev Krieger and colleagues. For Entrepreneurs, the Benefits of Slowing Down by Jeffrey Bussgang 16 JUL 2021 | Op-Ed After several heady months for startups, Jeffrey Bussgang offers radical advice for founders this summer: just chill. One More Way the Startup World Hampers Women Entrepreneurs by Michael Blanding 23 JUN 2021 | Research & Ideas Early feedback is essential to launching new products, but women entrepreneurs are more likely to receive input from men. Research by Rembrand Koning, Ramana Nanda, and Ruiqing Cao. COVID-19 Why Cutting Jobless Aid Isn't the Answer to Worker Shortages by Rachel Layne 24 MAR 2022 | Research & Ideas Many policymakers thought that halting COVID-related unemployment insurance would be a "silver bullet" to addressing worker shortages. In reality, cutting aid undermined consumer spending, says research by Raymond Kluender. Lessons from COVID-19: The Business Skills Doctors Need by Michael Blanding 14 MAR 2022 | Research & Ideas The pandemic forced many physicians to become supply chain experts and strategic planners. Robert Huckman and colleagues offer a roadmap for teaching doctors the management and leadership skills they need—before the next public health crisis. Want to Prevent the Next Hospital Bed Crisis? Enlist the SEC by Regina Herzlinger and Richard Boxer 24 FEB 2022 | Op-Ed After two years of COVID-19, many hospitals still haven't figured out how to manage the overwhelming wave of patients that flood ICUs during each surge. Regina Herzlinger and Richard Boxer offer a novel solution. Silos That Work: How the Pandemic Changed the Way We Collaborate by Jay Fitzgerald 08 FEB 2022 | Research & Ideas A study of 360 billion emails shows how remote work isolated teams, but also led to more intense communication within siloed groups. Will these shifts outlast the pandemic? Research by Tiona Zuzul and colleagues. Popular Identify Great Customers from Their First Purchase by Kristen Senz 09 DEC 2019 | Research & Ideas Using data from their very first transaction, companies can identify shoppers who will create the best long-term value, says Eva Ascarza. Managers, Here’s How to Bond with New Hires Remotely by Lane Lambert 13 AUG 2021 | Research & Ideas Worried about engaging interns and new employees in a hybrid world? Research by Iavor I. Bojinov and Prithwiraj Choudhury shows how "virtual watercooler" sessions can make all the difference. How Gender Stereotypes Kill a Woman’s Self-Confidence by Dina Gerdeman 25 FEB 2019 | Research & Ideas Researchers believe gender stereotypes hold women back in the workplace. Katherine Coffman's research adds a new twist: They can even cause women to question their own abilities. More Proof That Money Can Buy Happiness (or a Life with Less Stress) by Michael Blanding 25 JAN 2022 | Research & Ideas It's not about the bigger home or the better vacation. Financial stability helps people escape the everyday hassles of life, says research by Jon Jachimowicz. Books Navigating Tradeoffs: How Purpose Becomes a Company's ‘Lighthouse in the Storm’ by Ranjay Gulati 17 MAR 2022 | Research & Ideas Leaders wrestle with tough decisions every day. Focusing on a company's higher purpose can help them make better choices, says Ranjay Gulati in this excerpt from his book Deep Purpose. When Employees Feel a Sense of Purpose, Companies Succeed by Ranjay Gulati 17 FEB 2022 | Book Corporate cultures tend to encourage conformity. At a time when employees expect more from their jobs, companies should make space for individuality, Ranjay Gulati argues in this excerpt from his book, Deep Purpose. When Working Harder Doesn’t Work, Time to Reinvent Your Career by Avery Forman 15 FEB 2022 | Book The second half of your life could be better than the first. Really. In the book From Strength to Strength, Arthur Brooks shows how letting go of past glory can open the possibilities of life's "second curve." Beyond the Cold War: Reinventing Socialism in 5 Countries by Dina Gerdeman 04 FEB 2022 | Book People have long associated socialism with the Soviet Union and Cold War, but many countries in the developing world have adapted the ideology to meet their needs, says a new book by Jeremy Friedman. Social Media Feeds Corruption: New Insights for Fighting an Age-Old Business Problem hbs.me/3M6D3pR Jun 01 2022, 04:49 AM Working Knowledge @HBSWK Follow Follow Us @HBSWK Is Stakeholder Management Facing New Headwinds? hbs.me/3PHHWJ4 May 27 2022, 03:49 AM Working Knowledge @HBSWK Follow Corruption: New Insights for Fighting an Age-Old Business Problem hbs.me/3M6D3pR Jun 01 2022, 04:49 AM Working Knowledge @HBSWK Follow Follow Us @HBSWK Corruption: New Insights for Fighting an Age-Old Business Problem hbs.me/3M6D3pR Jun 01 2022, 04:49 AM Working Knowledge @HBSWK Follow Follow Us @HBSWK Is Stakeholder Management Facing New Headwinds? hbs.me/3PHHWJ4 May 27 2022, 03:49 AM Working Knowledge @HBSWK Follow Sign up for our weekly newsletter Interested in improving your business? Learn about fresh research and ideas from Harvard Business School faculty. ǁ Harvard Business School Working Knowledge Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Email: Editor-in-Chief →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College