Harvard Club of San Diego Toggle navigationMENU Harvard Club of San Diego Login Alumni/Student Login Non-Alumni Login/Register Membership Join/Renew Member Benefits Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Service Serving Harvard Serving San Diego Mentoring Students (J-term) Public Service Fellowship (CPIC) Get Involved! Be an Interviewer Sponsor a Prize Book Volunteer for Community Service Contribute to the Public Service Fellowship Forums About Us President's Message The Board and Committees Useful Links Contact us Welcome to the Harvard Club of San Diego Welcome to the Harvard Club of San Diego where we strive to provide Harvard alumni in the Greater San Diego area with an active and interesting community through events and university programs. Our activities include interviewing student applicants for Harvard College every year and hosting a variety of social, educational and philanthropic events. From recent graduates to senior members of the community, we hope to provide something interesting for every alumnus in San Diego. Twitter @HarvardSan Through your support and participation, we will continue to provide these events. We invite you to renew your Club Membership or become a Club Member in order to take advantage of the many opportunities the Club has to offer members (including discounted prices and members only events). We would love to have you work alongside us on our goals of serving Harvard and its alumni. We are proud to be part of this community, and we look forward to having you join us. Basic Membership is only $35 for the year, and comes with numerous benefits. Sign up today! If you cannot sign up online, a paper form is available here. Check us out on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/HarvardSanDiego/. The Mission of the Harvard Club of San Diego The Harvard Club of San Diego was established to serve the community of Harvard Alumni and students in the San Diego area in order to promote the welfare of Harvard University and its educational mission. The club aims to strengthen the community of Harvard Alumni in San Diego County by providing opportunities for gatherings of alumni and their guests, including events designed to cultivate members’ social and intellectual curiosity and engagement in many areas, including education, culture, community service, and networking. In addition, the Harvard Club of San Diego aims to provide assistance to Harvard University for the benefit of current and incoming students in the San Diego area by several means, among them by assisting with the interviewing of prospective Harvard College candidates, and also by soliciting donations, raising funds, receiving contributions and paying them over to Harvard University for the purpose of fostering internship opportunities in the San Diego area for current Harvard students. The Harvard Club of San Diego is organized exclusively for educational purposes within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Upcoming Events Upcoming Events Below Subscribe to our events to easily access on the go! FEATURED Happening now 12:00AM Fri 1 Jan 2021 - 12:00AM Wed 1 Jan 2025, Pacific timezone Easily view the shared HCSD calendar in your calendar app or mobile phone! tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook June 1 - Future of Health - CEO Roundtable: ESG Priorities in Life Sciences Innovation TODAY 4:00PM - 6:00PM Wed 1 Jun 2022, Eastern timezone Life sciences and healthcare executives share insights on environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in healthcare. tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook June 2 - Ivy+ Happy Hour at AleSmith Brewing Company TOMORROW 6:00PM - 8:00PM Thu 2 Jun 2022, Pacific timezone Please join Harvard alumni and other Ivy + alumni for a networking event. Food trucks will be available. tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook June 3 - Harvard Alumni Day 2 days away 10:00AM - 6:00PM Fri 3 Jun 2022, Pacific timezone tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook June 13 - HCSD Hybrid Book Club Meeting 7:00PM Mon 13 Jun 2022, Pacific timezone We will be discussing "Klara and the Sun" by Kazuo Ishiguro tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook → View All Events Recent Events Upcoming Events Below May 25 - Affirmative Action in Higher Education - Zoom Panel Discussion 12:00PM - 1:30PM Wed 25 May 2022, Pacific timezone Presented by the Harvard Law School Association of Orange County and the Orange County chapter of the HLS Women's Alliance. tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook May 25 - Harvard Alumni Happy Hour 6:00PM - 8:30PM Tue 24 May 2022, Pacific timezone Come join your fellow Harvard alumni for beer, food, and good times. tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook HAA Speakers Bureau: Harvard Prof. Juliette Kayyem "Learning to Live in an Age of Disasters" FEATURED 3:00PM - 5:00PM Wed 11 May 2022, Pacific timezone Please join us for this special Zoom session featuring Harvard Kennedy School Belfer Senior Lecturer in International Security, Juliette Kayyem. tell a friend read more Add to Calendar Apple Google Outlook → View More Recent Events Harvard Magazine “We Salute You, and We Thank You” A Multiverse of Might-Have-Beens “People Were Making Bricks Out of Straw” Harvard Gazette Taken out of context New breed of American leader Many happy returns The Crimson Yi-An Huang Norman Khumalo Cheryl Watson Fisher Harvard Alumni Association Harvard Program and Events Harvard Clubs & SIGs Directory Harvard Online Learning Powered by AlumniMagnet