Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Military Science Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Frequently Asked Questions Color Guard Contact Us Program Courses Scholarships Apply Show Extended Application Resources Application Support the Department Alumni Load Social Media Icons Reaching Higher in Military Science Learn About Our Programs Apply Scholarships Color Guard FAQ Program Alumni Go Army, Go Titans 5 Extracurricular Programs 4 Partner Schools ∞ Scholarships Available Titan Battalion Cadets are not only committed to school and Army ventures, they are dedicated members of the community. California State University Fullerton Army ROTC offers several community outreach opportunities to support the local environment and improve public institutions. ADDITIONAL OPPORTUNITIES In addition to regular Military Science classes during the school year, Cadets have the opportunity to participate in summer training programs. Basic Camp (BC) is the premier leadership program of its kind in the United States. It is an intense four-week introduction to Army life and leadership training of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. Advance Camp (AC) is now held annually at Fort Knox, Kentucky. The U.S. Army's largest training exercise, AC is the U.S. Army Cadet Command's capstone training event. The purpose of the course is to train U.S. Army ROTC Cadets to Army standards, to develop their leadership skills, and to evaluate their officer potential. The purpose of Cadet Troop Leadership Training (CTLT) is to expose cadets to the life of a Platoon Leader in an active Army unit. CTLT allows cadets to observe other leadership styles over the span of four weeks in order to better develop their own. At Airborne school, Cadets train alongside Army officers, enlisted men and women, and members of the other armed services to jump from an Air Force aircraft (C130 and C141). Upon completion of the course, Cadets will earn the coveted jump wings and be parachutist qualified. The Air Assault School, conducted at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, is two weeks of mental and physical challenges. This school is designed to teach air assault skills and procedures, improve basic leadership skills, and award the Air Assault Badge. TRAINING TOMORROW'S LEADERS TODAY. California State University Fullerton Army ROTC (Titan Battalion) Orange County's premire ROTC program trains students to become future officers in our armed forces as well as leaders in the professional business world. Partnership Schools: UC-Irvine, Biola University, Chapman University, Vanguard University, Whittier College, and Orange County junior colleges. PROGRAM The CSUF Army ROTC (Titan Battalion) curriculum is both very challenging and rewarding. Routine activities consist of physical training on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 0600-0700 and Military Science classes and Leadership Labs on Fridays from 0830-1100. Our training plan also includes a 3-day Leadership Training Exercise (LTX) once per semester and additional summer training for qualified cadets* at various military installations across the United States. To find out more about becoming an Army Officer through the Cal State Fullerton Army ROTC Program contact us at armyrotc@fullerton.edu To setup an interview to establish your eligibility, contact Mr. Steven Yach (Recruiting Operations Officer) at syach@fullerton.edu / (657) 278-3527 or complete this online application This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/11/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.