Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu College of Health and Human Development Employee Wellness Program Main Navigation About Us Show Extended What's New Facilities Internships Physical Activity Programs Show Extended Open Exercise Session EWP Yoga Class Fitness Assessment Program Health Promotion Programs Show Extended Walking for Fitness Physical Activity Weight loss Youtube Workouts Resources Contact Us Load Social Media Icons <noframe> <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pTpnBblfss&amp;feature=youtu.be" onClick="return UnderstandUsage('https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pTpnBblfss&amp;feature=youtu.be', 'youtube video', 'content link', 'click');" onfocus="Navigation_CloseExtendedMainNav()">youtube video</a> </noframe> Welcome to the Employee Wellness Program The Employee Wellness Program, centered around the promotion of physical activity and healthy lifestyle choices, is operated by the Division of Kinesiology and Health Science (KHS). The program provides CSF faculty and staff an opportunity to participate in exercise classes and provides information for improving one’s wellness. The Physical Activity Programs include Exercise Sessions and Yoga Classes. The Exercise Sessions allow you to perform your own strength training and aerobic conditioning routine, or join in on a pre-written exercise routine under the guidance of our EWP Staff. Our Yoga classes are instructor led and are designed to instruct you on how to perform specific postures and breathing methods to improve your strength, balance, flexibility, body awareness, focus and relaxation. The Exercise Sessions are offered in the Lifespan Wellness Center. The Center is a 5,000 square foot exercise facility with state-of-the-art resistance and cardiovascular exercise equipment. There is also an emphasis on Health Promotion Program including on-line information, on-campus lectures, and personal consultations with regard to nutrition, stress management and other wellness issues. Another goal of the Employee Wellness Program is to help make CSF faculty and staff aware of other Related Campus Resources that provide more opportunities for improving one’s wellness. Other campus programs including AS Rec Sports and the Center for Successful Aging offer additional exercise classes for faculty, staff and older adults. This site is maintained by College of Health and Human Development. Last Published 4/6/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact hhdweb@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.