Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Human Development and Family Studies Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Financial Counseling and Planning This curriculum prepares students for professional work related to financial counseling and planning (FCP). FCP is a growing career field and appeals to students who want to impact the lives of individuals and families through the complex process of financial decision making by providing advice on investments, insurance, mortgages, college savings, estate planning, taxes, and retirement. The financial and counseling undergraduate program at Iowa State University (ISU) is the only program of its kind offered in Iowa. Graduates of the program are prepared for employment in organizations committed to improving the financial capability of individuals and families. Research Private practice Law firms Extension and outreach services Credit and debt repayment agencies Banks and credit unions Financial planning firms Military financial counselor contracts Government agencies Careers and Internships As a graduate of the financial counseling and planning program, you are well-prepared to guide clients in developing successful strategies to achieve your financial goals and to support clients as you work through your financial challenges and opportunities. You are also able to pursue advanced educational options in graduate programs. Graduate programs in HDFS Career Services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff help you with job or internship searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter reviews. Look at a list of career possibilities inside child, adult, and family services. Internships Internships are available with various companies and firms. For more information, visit our careers and internship page. To apply for internships and full-time positions, use CyHire, on-campus career fairs, career services, and talk to your internship (field experience) coordinator: Carolyn Steckelberg. See where other students have interned. Visit Career Connections. Program Information The Financial Counseling and Planning program is a CFP Board-Registered Program that meets specific criteria for educating individuals who wish to fulfill the education component for obtaining CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ (CFP®) certification. Earning the CFP® professional designation prepares you to be a more accomplished and effective adviser by providing the knowledge, credibility, and expertise needed to set you apart. The Financial Counseling and Planning program is also an AFCPE® Registered Education Program which offers students the opportunity to earn their Accredited Financial Counselor® (AFC®) certification that enhances their degree and marks the highest standard of excellence in the field of financial counseling and education. Financial Counseling and Planning Curriculum Requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements General education selections 4-Year Plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan Syllabi View class syllabi Financial Counseling Clinic Our department has the first-in-the-nation campus Financial Counseling Clinic. Students have the opportunity to participate in hands-on learning experiences in the Financial Counseling Laboratory and field experience. FCP students also have the option to complete the Financial Planning Capstone, which offers a real-world experience that prepares students to guide clients through life-cycle financial education to help them realize their goals and achieve lasting financial well-being. Get Involved! Learning Community Clubs and Organizations Study abroad programs Are you considering a study abroad opportunity to broaden your educational perspectives and personal view of the world? We hope so! Ready for the Next Steps? Visit Us Apply Now Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Student Spotlight: Taylor Barnard “I feel like the College of Human Sciences has allowed me to find my own unique experience here.” View Career Connections: Melanie Trepa Major: Child, Adult, and Family Services Organization: Bethesda Lutheran Church View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Human Development and Family Studies 2330 Palmer Building | 2222 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1084 515-294-6316 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility