Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Human Development and Family Studies Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Early Childhood Education (HDFS) Peer mentor. College ambassador. Honors member. Future educator. World changer. Read Cassidy’s story. Our early childhood education-unified (ECE) program leads to recommendation for a state of Iowa license that will allow you to teach children from birth through third grade, in both general and special education. This early childhood education-unified program prepares you to help all children reach their potential, regardless of their abilities. In the Iowa State University program: You will be part of the Human Development and Family Services (HDFS) Learning Community your freshman year. You will gain practical experiences that take place in area elementary schools You will have over 100 hours of hands-on practicum experience in our five-star rated Child Development Laboratory School. Your ECE classes are taught by nationally recognized faculty and instructors. In addition to the lab school, students will have access to high tech classrooms, computer labs, and the Center for Technology in Learning and Teaching (CTLT). Careers and Student Teaching As a graduate of the early childhood education program, you are well-prepared for working in early childhood intervention programs, elementary schools, and other childcare centers. You are also able to pursue further education options in graduate programs. Graduate programs in HDFS Career Services Prepare for your next job or student teaching with Career Services, where staff help you with job or student teaching searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter reviews. Look at a list of career possibilities inside early childhood education. ISU Child Development Laboratory School Early childhood experiences in human development and family studies classes take place in our nationally accredited (National Association for the Education of Young Children) model laboratory school housed on central campus. The Iowa State University Child Development Laboratory School has been educating young children and practicum students alike since 1924. Each practicum experience you have will be determined by the course content and goals set forth to engage you with each aspect of early childhood teaching. Based on the course you are enrolled you will spend between one and three hours interacting directly in the early childhood classroom alongside licensed teachers who will supervise and mentor you throughout the experience. The Child Development Laboratory School offers the unique opportunity to interact directly with young children of all abilities during your educational journey that most early childhood education programs do not offer. The early childhood education program is unique because it is an interdepartmental major – meaning it is administered across two departments in the College of Human Sciences: Human Development and Family Studies (HDFS) and School of Education (SOE). This allows students to work with faculty who have expertise in the ages, grades, and curricula that will better prepare graduates to work with children and their families, as well as with other professionals. HDFS Department Faculty School of Education Faculty Program Information Early Childhood Education Curriculum Requirements REQUIRED: Completion of two or more years of high school foreign language in one language or one year of university-level foreign language in same language or American Sign Language. Catalog requirements 2020-21 curriculum requirements 4-Year Plans 2020-21-20 sample 4-year plans Background Check Policy for Practicum Courses Faculty Review of ECE Student Progress Syllabi View class syllabi Educator Preparation Program Once you’ve been accepted to Iowa State University, our Educator Preparation Program (EPP) prepares you for recommendation to the Iowa Board of Educational Examiners (BOEE) for licensure. Admission into the Educator Preparation Program is the first step in completing your teacher education. Learn about the options, timing and requirements for the Educator Preparation Program. Get Involved! Learning Community Clubs and Organizations Study abroad programs Are you considering a study abroad opportunity to broaden your educational perspectives and personal view of the world? We hope so! The HDFS department offers various international opportunities through the College of Human Sciences International Programs office. Student teaching Student teaching opportunities are available within various school systems throughout the country and in Iowa. For more information, visit the School of Education Student Teaching webpage. To apply for full-time career opportunities after graduation, you can use CyHire, the on-campus Teacher Education Fair, Career Services, or TeachIowa.gov. See where other students have taught. Visit Career Connections. Ready for the Next Steps? Visit Us Apply Now Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Student Spotlight: Diana Fonseca Garcia “I know what it’s like to come to a country and not know a certain language, or not be able to know who to talk to because there’s a language barrier. I feel like I have a lot to offer as a principal.” View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Human Development and Family Studies 2330 Palmer Building | 2222 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1084 515-294-6316 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility