Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Human Development and Family Studies Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Financial Counseling Clinic Home> Current Students> Academics> Financial Counseling Clinic Financial Counseling Clinic The Financial Counseling Clinic, the first of its kind in the nation, is a learning laboratory located in the Palmer Building used by students pursuing a major or minor in financial counseling and planning (FCP). Mission The mission of the Iowa State University Financial Counseling Clinic (FCC) is to serve as a model university financial counseling and planning education laboratory providing FCP students with hands-on experience in role-play situations or in application for real-world clients during their financial counseling laboratory and financial planning capstone project. The Iowa State Financial Counseling Clinic (FCC) is dedicated to training FCP students to guide clients through life-cycle financial education to help them assess and improve their financial decision making and build a sustainable foundation for long-term financial well-being. FCP students develop the skills to empower individuals and families – regardless of income or background – to make effective financial decisions. Students use the lab environment to develop the abilities to: Assist clients with their immediate money challenges Deliver financial education and guidance specific to the client’s unique situation and needs Educate clients in sound financial principles Help clients identify and modify ineffective money management behaviors Guide clients in developing successful strategies to achieve financial goals Support clients as they work through financial challenges and opportunities Office of Student Financial Success Often mistaken for the Financial Counseling Clinic, the Office of Student Financial Success is a financial resource for all Iowa State University students. The mission of the Office of Student Financial Success is to reduce Iowa State University students’ loan debt and improve the overall financial health of Iowa State University students through education and understanding of how to finance their higher education. Located in Beardshear Hall, the Office of Student Financial Success advises Iowa State students one-on-one to help make managing money easier. Topics include but are not limited to: Budgeting Spending Credit Cards Credit Scores Student Loans Loan Repayment Managing Debt Basic Personal Finance Contact the Office of Student Financial Success Call, stop in, or email to ask questions or schedule an appointment. Scheduling appointments ahead of time is preferred. The staff is ready to help guide students through responsible borrowing, understanding how to effectively manage their money and understanding the impact of borrowing on their credit. Hours: Monday – Friday from 8:00 am-4:00 pm. Email: financialsuccess@iastate.edu Phone: 515-294-2223 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Helpful Websites: Family Finances: For Families Iowa Financial Literacy Network Iowa Jump$tart Resources Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Smart About Money Federal Trade Commission Identity Theft National Endowment for Financial Education For Investors: Education Is Key to Protection Information for the Individual Investor Iowa Concern ISU-E answer line ISU-E financial management ISU-E financial publications FDIC “Money Smart” Program FTC consumer information menu MyFICO calculators Need More Information? Financial Counseling Clinic 4380 Palmer Building 2222 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1084 steckelb@iastate.edu Academics Honors Program Financial Counseling Clinic Student Spotlight: Clare Andresen “I really like helping people overcome financial obstacles, and learn and understand financial concepts.” View Career Connections: Christopher Fox Major: Financial Counseling and Planning Organization: Iowa Able Foundation View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Human Development and Family Studies 2330 Palmer Building | 2222 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1084 515-294-6316 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility