Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / FACULTY & RESEARCH / Faculty Openings Position in African American Religious Studies Harvard University’s Faculty of Divinity seeks to appoint a tenured or tenure-track faculty member in African American Religious Studies, with a particular interest in the North American context. We welcome candidates with expertise in any specializations within the field, such as (but not limited to): cultural studies, ethics, gender and sexuality, history, literature, philosophy of religion, politics, social scientific approaches, and/or theology. Applicants should be familiar with and utilize analyses that address intersecting forms of identity and social power, including race, class, empire, gender, and sexuality. Excellence in teaching and research is required. The doctoral degree must be held by June 30, 2022. The successful candidate will work closely with students in the Divinity School’s Master of Divinity, Master of Theological Studies, and Master of Religion in Public Life programs, as well as PhD candidates in the Study of Religion in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. They will also have an opportunity to teach undergraduates in Harvard College, and to collaborate with colleagues and students in other departments and schools in the University. Applications should be made online at the portal for academic hiring at Harvard. Applications must include a CV, a cover letter, and in the case of untenured candidates, the names of three references whom the School will contact. Review of applications will begin on September 30, 2021, and continue until the position is filled. Letters of nomination are welcomed and should be sent to aarssearch@hds.harvard.edu. Applicants should address any questions regarding the position itself or the online application system to the HDS Faculty Search Office at aarssearch@hds.harvard.edu. HDS is an equal opportunity, affirmative-action employer, and encourages applications and nominations of women and/or ethnic minority candidates, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, pregnancy and pregnancy related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law. Tenure-Track Position in Hebrew Bible Harvard University’s Faculty of Divinity seeks to make a full-time, tenure-track appointment in the field of Hebrew Bible. The search is open to a variety of approaches and to any area of specialization within the field, understood as the critical study of the Hebrew Bible within the broader context of the history, literature, and religious thought of ancient Israel and Second Temple Judaism. The successful candidate should be proficient in the appropriate languages and demonstrate promise of excellence in research and teaching in the field of Hebrew Bible. The successful candidate will work closely with students in the Divinity School’s Masters programs and the doctoral program in the Committee on the Study of Religion in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. They will also likely teach and advise undergraduates in the College, as well as graduate students in Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations and related departments and programs in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Applicants should also be able to contribute to the Divinity School’s degree programs, including its multi-religious Master of Divinity program. We therefore seek a candidate who is attentive to the interpretation of the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh, Old Testament) within later communities of reception, and who is familiar with forms of analysis that address race, gender, and social location. If travel and on-campus visits during the next academic year prove difficult or even impossible, the Faculty of Divinity intends to proceed with online interviews and visits. Applications should be made online at the portal for academic hiring at Harvard. The application includes a CV, a cover letter, and the names of three references whom the School will contact. Thereafter it will be the responsibility of the candidates to ensure that three references have been uploaded by the referees to their applications. Review of applications will begin on September 1, 2021, although applications will continue to be accepted until the position is filled. Letters of nomination are also welcome and should be sent to Dean David N. Hempton at hdsdeansoffice@hds.harvard.edu. Applicants should address any questions regarding the position itself or the online application system to the HDS Faculty Search Office at hebrewbiblesearch@hds.harvard.edu. HDS is an equal opportunity, affirmative-action employer, and encourages applications and nominations of women and/or ethnic minority candidates, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, pregnancy and pregnancy related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law. Tenure-Track Position in Hindu Studies Harvard Divinity School seeks to make a full-time, tenure-track appointment with the rank of assistant professor in Hindu Studies, within the context of the religions of South Asia; and/or Hindu traditions as a global or transnational religion; and/or diasporic Hindu traditions, including Hindu traditions in North America. The foci of applicants’ work may be in any region or time period; research languages, disciplinary and methodological engagements are also open. The search is thus open to a variety of approaches to the field, including the interpretation of texts and commentaries, ritual studies, philosophical and theological studies, the historical study of religion, ethnographic studies, representations of Hindu traditions in film and other media, in South Asia or the global diaspora. The successful candidate will work closely with students in the Divinity School’s Masters programs, including its multi-religious Master of Divinity program, and be involved with doctoral programs in the Committee on the Study of Religion and related departments in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Teaching undergraduates in the Comparative Study of Religion and in related FAS departments is also assumed. The successful candidate will be familiar with forms of analysis that address race, gender, and social location. Candidates must apply online at the portal for academic hiring at Harvard. The application will include: cover letter; curriculum vitae; statement describing teaching philosophy and practices; research statement; statement describing efforts to encourage diversity, inclusion, and belonging, including past, current, and anticipated future contributions in these areas; and the names of three references whom the School will contact. Thereafter it will be the responsibility of the candidates to ensure that three references have been uploaded by the referees to their applications. The search committee will begin the review of completed applications on September 15, 2021, although applications will continue to be accepted until the position is filled. Letters of nomination are also welcome and should be sent to Dean David N. Hempton at hdsdeansoffice@hds.harvard.edu. Applicants should address any questions regarding the position itself or the online application system to the HDS Faculty Search Office at hindustudiessearch@hds.harvard.edu. HDS is an equal opportunity, affirmative-action employer, and encourages applications and nominations of women and/or ethnic minority candidates, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, pregnancy and pregnancy related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law. Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement