Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ABOUT / Maps, Directions, and Parking View interactive Harvard University Campus Map Download a printable map of the HDS campus Public transit HDS encourages the use of public transit when possible. Subway: Take the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA, known locally as the "T") Red Line to the Harvard Square station. From there, refer to the walking directions below. Bus: For more information on MBTA fares, maps, and schedules, visit theMBTA website. Public transit from Logan Airport The MBTA Silver Line, a bus rapid-transit system, stops at all Logan Airport terminals. Take the Silver Line to South Station. From South Station, take the Red Line in the direction of Alewife Station to Harvard Square. Walking from Harvard Square The Harvard Red Line subway stop is located in the center of Harvard Square. From Harvard Square, walk northeast across Harvard Yard, where you will come to an open plaza in front of the Science Center. Walk across the plaza to the intersection of Oxford and Kirkland streets. Walk east on Kirkland Street. To reach Divinity Hall, turn left on Divinity Avenue, the first street to the left (you'll see a large white building at the intersection of Divinity Avenue and Kirkland). Divinity Hall is the last building on the right, at 14 Divinity Avenue. To reach the rest of the HDS campus, stay on Kirkland, proceeding past Divinity Avenue, to Francis Avenue, and turn left on Francis. Swartz Hall and the HDS Library will be on the left side of the street, at 45 Francis Avenue. Rockefeller Hall, 47 Francis Avenue, is beside Swartz Hall to the north. The Center for the Study of World Religions, 42 Francis Avenue, is on the right side of the street, across from Swartz Hall. The Carriage House, at 56 Francis Avenue, is also on the right side of Francis Avenue, just beyond the bend at Jewett House, the Dean's residence. Driving directions and parking Directions: use “Harvard Divinity School” in a search engine or GPS device. Parking: Some parking is available in various areas near the HDS campus. There is limited metered parking available: On Kirkland Street, in either direction On Divinity Avenue On Francis Avenue On Quincy to the left off Broadway, along Harvard Yard. There are also public garages in Harvard Square: Trinity Property's Harvard Square Parking Garage at 65 John F. Kennedy Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Propark's Church Street Garage at 41 Church Street, Cambridge MA 02138 Propark's Smith Center (formerly Holyoke Center) Garage at 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge MA 02138. University parking permits Guest permits to all University parking areas are issued on a first-come, first-served basis, and may be obtained from the Parking Office website. You will need to register on the site prior to purchasing a permit, and to register you will need a Department Code. Please contact your HDS host to obtain the Department Code for the Divinity School. About HDS HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking HDS Buildings Swartz Hall (formerly Andover Hall) Divinity Hall Rockefeller Hall Harvard Divinity School Library (formerly Andover-Harvard Theological Library) Center for the Study of World Religions Carriage House (Women's Studies in Religion Program) Jewett House HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Blue Green Analytics Styles Code Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement