Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / FACULTY & RESEARCH / Harvard Theological Review Harvard Theological Review is one of the oldest scholarly theological journals in the United States, providing a forum for scholars of religion and theology since its founding in 1908. Issued quarterly, it publishes compelling original research that contributes to the development of scholarly understanding and interpretation in a variety of fields. The scope of the Review embraces the history and philosophy of religious thought in all traditions and periods, including Hebrew Bible, New Testament, Christianity, Jewish studies, theology, ethics, archaeology, and comparative religious studies. Harvard Theological Review Harvard Divinity School 45 Francis Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Telephone: 617.495.5786 Facsimile: 617.496.9402 Email: htr@hds.harvard.edu For Prospective Authors Information about article content Harvard Theological Review considers articles submitted for publication if they conform to the following guidelines: Originality Articles must not have been previously published elsewhere and must differ significantly and substantially from other material the author may have published. The Review does not consider articles currently submitted to other journals nor, ordinarily, those scheduled to appear in forthcoming books. Scholarly content The Review covers a wide spectrum of fields in theological and religious studies. Our range is not limited to any one religious tradition or set of traditions. The main criteria for publication are that a submission significantly advance knowledge in its field, be historically informed and rigorous in its reasoning, and speak intelligibly to readers knowledgeable in theological or religious studies outside of its special field. Articles submitted may make a constructive theological, ethical, or methodological argument, but should not be polemical in tone. All authors must adhere to recognized scholarly standards, include full and accurate references, and be willing and able to work with primary sources in their original languages. Book reviews Harvard Theological Review does not publish short book reviews. New books received in the office are, however, generally listed in a section at the end of each issue titled "Books Received." On occasion, we do commission a review essay of a significant book or set of books recently published. Ordinarily, commissioned review essays are not peer reviewed. Translations On rare occasion, the Review accepts English translations of articles published in other languages, if they are considered to have wide appeal and are not readily accessible to the scholarly community. Inclusive language The use of masculine pronouns when referring to persons generically and the use of such terms as "man" when referring to human beings in general should be avoided. Authors are asked to minimize stylistic awkwardness in adhering to our inclusive language policy. For example, it is better to use the plural pronoun ("they") rather than the singular ("he or she," "s/he"). The editors are aware that it is not always appropriate to employ inclusive language when referring to God or divine beings. In such cases, authors should adjust their usage to the historical character of the material studied. Address and technical details Authors should submit their papers to Harvard Theological Review's ScholarOne portal. The Review seldom publishes papers longer than about 12,000 words. The Review closely follows the recommendations of The SBL Handbook of Style and The Chicago Manual of Style. An article need not conform to Harvard Theological Review style (PDF) before being accepted for publication. How articles are reviewed Our review process involves two stages. The author may be asked to make changes after either the first or the second stage; the article may also be rejected after either review. The comments of our anonymous reviewers will be passed on to the author, whether or not the essay is accepted. If a submission seems obviously inappropriate to HTR, it may be rejected without entering the review process. Since we depend on peer review by scholars, who are often quite busy, we cannot guarantee a date by which a decision will have been made. Ordinarily, Harvard Theological Review will not consider for publication more than two submissions by the same author within a period of eighteen months. When an article is accepted We try to publish articles within eighteen months of the date of submission. Between acceptance and publication, articles are edited for grammatical accuracy, felicity of writing, conformity with American spelling and usage, and accordance with the HTR style sheet of Harvard Theological Review. Once the editing process is complete, authors receive page proofs electronically, which they are expected to read carefully and return within the week. After publication, authors are offered twenty-five offprints of their published articles and one copy of the issue. Upon request, further offprints and issues may be ordered. Copyright information Copyright of all articles published in Harvard Theological Review is held by the President and Fellows of Harvard College. Authors receive no financial remuneration for publishing their work in the Review. Open Access policy A growing number of private and national funding bodies have announced Open Access policies that confirm author self-archiving (“Green” Open Access) as a legitimate route to Open Access compliance for scholars working in the humanities and social sciences. As a part of these efforts, HTR is introducing a new policy designed to offer our authors the greatest possible degree of freedom and maximize the accessibility of the research we publish while at the same time protecting financial returns for HTR. Permissions for author self-archiving under this policy will be as follows: Personal webpage Departmental or institutional repository Non-commercial subject repository Commercial repository or social media sites Submitted manuscript under review At any time At any time At any time At any time Accepted manuscript On acceptance On acceptance On acceptance Abstract only plus link to article on Cambridge University Press site Version of record Abstract only plus link to article on Cambridge University Press site Abstract only plus link to article on Cambridge University Press site Abstract only plus link to article on Cambridge University Press site Abstract only plus link to article on Cambridge University Press site Advertising Information Harvard Theological Review regularly publishes ads for scholarly publications. For further information about rates and availability of space, please contact: In the Americas, USAdSales@cambridge.org For the rest of the world, ad_sales@cambridge.org Harvard Theological Review publishes review essays only occasionally. New books received in the office are, however, generally listed in a section at the end of each issue. Publishers have found that including their publications in this list increases sales. Permissions Copyright of articles published in the Harvard Theological Review is held by the President and Fellows of Harvard College. Requests for permission to reproduce work are handled by the publisher, Cambridge University Press. Visit Cambridge University Press Rights & Permissions for further details. We do not accept requests by telephone or email. Requests for permission to reprint an article in another volume is rarely granted within the first year of the article's publication in Harvard Theological Review. Staff Editor Giovanni Bazzana Editorial Board Francis X. Clooney, David N. Hempton, Mayra Rivera Associate Editors Members of the Faculty of Divinity Managing Editor Faye Bodley-Dangelo Editorial Assistants Sherah Bloor, Lydia Bremer-McCollum, Haruka Umetsu Cho, Josh C. A. Cohen, Michael Ennis, James Gregory Given, Sarah Griffis, Matthew Hass, Terry Iles, Joseph Kimmel, Jonathan Mason-Wolfe, Kelsi Morrison-Atkins, Matthew Percuoco, Sarah Porter, Luan Ribeiro, Thomas Whittaker Production Staff Nariman Aavani, Lydia Bremer-McCollum, Kathryn Dodgson, James Gregory Given, Terry Iles, Joseph Kimmel, Kelsi Morrison-Atkins Subscription Information Harvard Theological Review is published quarterly. For details of current subscription rates, please visit Subscribe to Harvard Theological Review on the Cambridge University Press website. Free subscriptions A limited number of free subscriptions are granted to foreign educational institutions based on financial need. Please submit a written request to: Editor Harvard Theological Review 45 Francis Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement