Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / Coronavirus Updates: Keep HDS Healthy Harvard Divinity School continues to closely monitor the course of the COVID-19 pandemic and the progress of the vaccination and booster effort. As always, the health and safety of our students, faculty, and staff are of paramount importance. Commencement Week COVID Guidance Masking As our Boston and Cambridge campuses are now classified as "High" in the CDC's COVID-19 community level, we strongly encourage wearing a well-fitting mask indoors in public, regardless of vaccination status or individual risk. The CDC also recommends that if you are immunocompromised or at high risk for severe illness you wear a mask or respirator that provides you with greater protection. Any persons that begin exhibiting undiagnosed symptoms of COVID-19 must mask and be tested for COVID-19. Persons should continue to mask and limit contact with others while awaiting test results. Harvard University community members are encouraged to have an acceptable face covering on their persons at all times for situations in which they may be required. At this time, we also strongly recommend voluntary masking indoors and in crowded settings outdoors. High-quality disposable masks, worn with no gaps at the edges, can protect both the wearer and those around them from COVID-19. Viral Testing Anyone with COVID-19 symptoms or known exposure to COVID-19 should test. Harvard community members may use a Color test or rapid antigen COVID-19 test. Rapid antigen COVID-19 tests detect current infection and are sometimes also called "home tests," "at-home tests," or "over-the-counter (OTC) tests." Always read the complete manufacturer's instructions for use before using the test. If the test result is positive, the test detected the virus and you have an infection. Follow isolation instructions. Harvard community members must report positive status through Crimson Clear. A negative self-test result means that the test did not detect the virus and you may not have a COVID-19 infection, but it does not guarantee you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms and your first rapid test was negative, you should repeat the test within a few days, with at least 24 hours between tests, or obtain a molecular or PCR test. If you are attending multiple events on campus, especially while unmasked, periodic testing throughout the week can help to detect and prevent the spread of COVID-19. It is strongly recommended to test immediately before the gathering, or as close to the time of the event as possible. This is especially important before gathering with individuals at risk of severe disease, older adults, those who are immunocompromised, or people who are not up to date on their COVID-19 vaccines, including children who cannot get vaccinated yet. Additional Resources: Harvard COVID-19 Updates Dr. Giang Nguyen: Keeping Our Classrooms Safe (Video) On-Campus Events Info. Frequently Asked Questions Updated University Travel Guidance (as of April 13, 2022) Verifying Your Vaccination and Booster Harvard is requiring COVID vaccination and booster for all community members who will have any on-campus presences this fall, including students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Detailed directions for submitting your COVID-19 booster verification to HUHS appear on the University’s Verify Your Vaccination webpage. Resources for Students, Staff, and Faculty Members of the HDS community are encouraged to learn about and take advantage of the numerous resources HDS and Harvard University have developed around virtual learning, teaching, and working remotely. COVID-19 Vaccine Information Harvard is requiring COVID vaccination for all community members who will have any on-campus presences this fall, including students, faculty, staff, and researchers. Harvard COVID-19 Updates and Info. Harvard has gathered a number of resources and help guides for use by students, staff, faculty, and the University community. Keep Harvard Healthy includes useful and current information on campus access, tracing and testing, travel guidance, and health and wellbeing. Together as a Community Compliance with Harvard University, state, and federal guidelines is critical to resuming activity on campus, and HDS will continue to adhere to public health information and guidance. School leadership is doing all it can to preserve the integrity of our institution and its educational mission, and to communicate forthrightly and in a timely fashion with our community on the specific challenges at hand. Please continue practicing the preventive behaviors that have helped to keep our communities safe to this point. May we continue to draw strength from each other and support one another during these challenging times. Coronavirus Updates: Keep HDS Healthy COVID-19 Resources for Students, Staff, and Faculty COVID-19 Guidance for On-Campus Events COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement