Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 348bdf95c65617e788a060e04d61aa3d Professional & Lifelong Learning HOME / ACADEMICS / Professional and Lifelong Learning In addition to its degree programs, Harvard Divinity School offers a selection of short seminars and online sessions exploring some of the world’s biggest questions with leading HDS scholars and professors of religion. Making Change Program Session dates: Sunday, June 5, to Thursday, June 9 Format: In person on the HDS campus Schedule (PDF) Program fee: $4,800 Faculty Directors: Charles Hallisey and John Brown Participating Scholars and Faculty Program Manager: Alison Harvey Application What’s around us changes us. What’s inside us changes the world. Step away from the demands of daily life and reconnect with the values that inspire all you do at Making Change, an intensive five-day program of personal and spiritual development on the Harvard Divinity School (HDS) campus. In sessions with some of the country's leading scholars of religion, theology, and ethics, you will encounter knowledge and practices that lead to personal transformation and make you a more effective agent of change in your organization, your community, and the world. Making Change 2022: Friendship and a Life Well-lived Ananda, the Buddha’s beloved disciple, speaking to the Buddha about what he had learned from the Buddha’s instructions over the years of living with him, said that “half of the good life” is friendship with good people (kalyanamitta), companionship with good people, closeness with good people, only to be corrected by the Buddha that these are not half but actually the whole of the good life. (SN.45v.2) —Jan Surrey and Charles Hallisey 2021 “Friendship, the Whole of Life Well-lived,” Insight Journal, 47:164 The social fabric of virtually any society emerges, binds, and holds itself through a combination of factors, but among the most important are relationships—bonds of family, friendship, and social connections. The historical and cultural understandings of relationships are as vast and creative as humankind itself. And yet they are constantly evolving, informed by the contemporaneous times, economies, cultural norms, and technologies that are in perpetual motion.  Harvard Divinity School invites you to explore the nature and meaning of one such type of relationship—friendship—and its power to transform ourselves and our society. Across five days in early June 2022, participants will join notable scholars and faculty to focus on friendship’s historical and spiritual dimensions. Through a close, critical inspection of secular literature and sacred texts, we will examine the rich and complex power of friendship, including: How the depiction of friendship in religious narratives helps us to appreciate the gravity of personal relationships The importance of cultivating connections with those who share different backgrounds to bridge cultural and religious divides The potential for expanding what we learn from relationships—how to nurture, respect, and care for others—to make meaningful change in the world. Participants who join the “Friendship and a Life Well-lived” seminar will engage in deep reading of the texts, rigorous discussion with fellow participants, and exploration of the content with leading Harvard scholars. The approach is inspired by havruta—a way of learning from the Jewish tradition that involves understanding and solving problems through dialogue, discussion, and debate. A brief word about discussion-based learning from the opening chapter in Education for Judgment: The Artistry of Discussion Leadership: “The traditional [teaching] model is based on the idea of teaching as telling. The primary goal is the transfer of information from an expert (the teacher) to novices (the students), with the expert controlling such critical elements of the process as the syllabus, pace and sequencing, and mode of presentation…. [A]n alternative model goes by various names, including active learning, self-directed learning, student-centered education, humanistic education, and progressive education. But in every case, the central tenet is the same: students must be actively involved in the learning process. The implications of this philosophy are both subtle and profound.” Newly Added Program Session: Because Friendship Can Cross Lines Author Colum McCann and David N. Hempton in Conversation with David Shulman Bassam Aramin is Palestinian. Rami Elhanan is Israeli, both living in a world of conflict that shapes every aspect of their daily lives. Their personal worlds shift irreparably when each has a child killed. Hailed as “transformative” by both Israeli and Palestinian writers, Colum McCann’s Apeirogon takes as its fulcrum the real-life story of two fathers who have lost their daughters to the conflict in the Holy Land. When Aramin and Elhanan learn of each other’s stories, they recognize the loss that connects them and, becoming friends, they attempt to use their grief as a weapon for peace. HDS Dean David N. Hempton, who grew up in Northern Ireland during the Troubles, will engage Irish-born international bestseller Colum McCann on what he thinks are the lessons to be taken from the exemplary friendship between Aramin and Elhanan with all its particular complexities. Israeli Indologist, poet, and peace activist David Shulman will join the conversation. Making Change is for individuals who want to: Study at one of the world’s leading divinity schools Get a new perspective on the challenges they face Connect with others working to make change Take the long view Make an investment in themselves For more information, contact the program manager, Alison Harvey Policies Admission Participant conversation and connection is an essential component of the program. We seek a group of participants with diverse perspectives and experiences. The only formal requirement for admission is proficiency in written and spoken English. All applicants are encouraged to review Harvard Divinity School’s nondiscrimination policy and community values statement. Application Prospective participants are requested to complete an application. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis with decisions communicated within two weeks. Given the relatively small size of the program, interested applicants are encouraged to apply as early as possible to ensure that space is available. Payment Payment can be made by check, credit card, or transferring the program fee from a bank account. Once you are accepted into the program you will receive payment instructions. What’s included The program fee covers all sessions, the readings, and all meals with the exception of one dinner when you are free to explore the Cambridge/Boston area. COVID 19 Precautions To ensure a safe campus experience, we are adhering to the university’s COVID-19 guidelines which currently require participants to attest they are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, including a booster, and provide a negative COVID 19 test result within 48 hours of arrival on campus. Please note that guidelines may change prior to the start of the program and any changes will be communicated. Currently mask wearing is optional. Withdrawals, refunds, and changes to the program Participants can withdraw their registration subject to the following refund schedule: 15 or more days before the program start: full refund 8–14 days before start: 50 percent refund Within 7 days of start: no refund Program curriculum, dates, and faculty are subject to change. In the unlikely event of a change in the program dates, participants who previously paid are eligible to have the program fee refunded in full, but the School is not responsible for any other expenses incurred by the participant. Pre-program preparation There are 15-20 hours of preliminary assignments and required readings to complete prior to the start of the program. Access to the course site will be provided six weeks before the program start date. HDS Making Change 2022 Information Session Faculty members John Brown, Charlie Hallisey, and Laura Tuach provide an overview of the program, explain the importance of the Havruta and Meaning Making sessions, as well as the expected outcomes from the program. Questions? Apply now Email us Sign up to receive additional information Frequently Asked Questions HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement