Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 4c776e7e232bc3bd8f5644970bf6b37f Admissions & Aid Discover Engage Apply HOME / Admissions & Aid Discover 2021-22 Incoming Class Data 46 Religious Traditions Represented 121 Undergraduate Institutions 165 Size of Incoming Class Admissions Connect Please complete the HDS Admissions Connect form to join our mailing list for further information about HDS Admissions programs and events. HDS Admissions Connect Form HDS Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Harvard Divinity School students represent a wide range of cultural and ethnic backgrounds and more than 45 faith traditions from around the world. HDS Community Life Make a positive contribution to communities at HDS, Harvard, and around the world. HDS students are passionate about using the power of an HDS education to create social change. HDS Faculty World-renowned Harvard Divinity School scholars teach and mentor students with a multi-religious focus and interdisciplinary approach. HDS faculty also conduct vital research to advance religious insight around the globe. Learn more about HDS faculty Master of Divinity The HDS Master of Divinity degree prepares graduates for chaplaincy and ministry or a range of other careers that center around service, social justice, and ethical leadership. More about the MDiv Program Master of Theological Studies The HDS Master of Theological Studies degree enables students to explore the languages, literatures, institutions, practices, and structures of many theological fields and religious traditions. More about the MTS Program Master of Religion and Public Life The HDS Master of Religion and Public Life degree helps experienced professionals develop in-depth knowledge of the complex ways religion influences public life related to their career areas. More about the MRPL Program Master of Theology The HDS Master of Theology degree is for students who have received the Master of Divinity degree (or its equivalent) to pursue advanced theological studies. More about the ThM program HDS on Instagram Social Media HDS on Instagram Powered by Curator.io HDS Student and Alumni Stories Theater as Chaplaincy for the LGBTQ+ Community Theater as Chaplaincy for the LGBTQ+ Community Theater has been a spiritual home for many LGBTQ+ folks, providing shared rituals and stories, a sense of being part of something greater than oneself, and mutual care and support. - J. Sylvan, MDiv ’20. https://bulletin.hds.harvard.edu/theater-as-chaplaincy-for-the-lgbtq-community%2... See also: Student & Alumni Stories There Is No Other Here There Is No ‘Other’ Here As assistant commissioner for the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Kevin Cranston, MDiv '86, puts the skills and habits of mind he acquired at HDS to use in the effort to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. https://hds.harvard.edu/news/2020/11/09/kevin-cranston-there-no-other-he... See also: Student & Alumni Stories Ministry of Healing Ministry of Healing As an activist, Gloria White-Hammond, MDiv ’97, is committed to healing and ministry—often in the most difficult situations. https://hds.harvard.edu/news2020/11/09/gloria-white-hammond-ministry-heali... See also: Student & Alumni Stories 1 of 3 » HDS Financial Aid 90% of MTS and MDiv students receive institutional scholarships. Financial Aid Engage HDS Diversity and Explorations Diversity and Explorations (DivEx) is a three-day introduction to Harvard Divinity School and our graduate programs. DivEx highlights students’ opportunities to engage in study and conversation with special attention to issues of diversity and social change. Explore DivEx Connect with Admissions Contact the Harvard Divinity School Admissions Office or connect with current HDS students. Connect with Admissions HDS Admissions Events Events for fall 2021 have concluded. Recordings of our virtual events can be found linked below. View all HDS Admissions events HDS Guide for Prospective Students Learn more about Harvard Divinity School in our HDS Admissions Guide for Prospective Students. View Guide Apply to HDS The Application for entrance for fall 2023 will become available in September 2022. To receive further information about HDS, including our admissions process, academic programs, and events, fill out our HDS Admissions Connect form. Apply to HDS International Applicants Virtual Admissions Events Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Email admissions@hds.harvard.edu. Phone: 617.495.5796 Admissions Tips on Instagram For helpful hints on the HDS admissions process, check out our "Admissions Tips" highlight on the HDS Instagram and be sure to follow us @HarvardDivinity. Please complete the HDS Admissions Connect form to join our mailing list for further information about HDS Admissions programs and events. HDS Admissions Connect Form HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Slate Ping Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement