Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 6ff9733b52633bae4ab70d2c2682d418 Diversity and Explorations Program HOME / ADMISSIONS & AID / Diversity and Explorations Program DivEx is a three-day introduction to Harvard Divinity School and our graduate programs. HDS is a vibrant, pluralistic community that gives students the opportunity to engage in study and conversation across different experiences, with special attention to diversity and social change. If you are a college undergraduate or recent graduate who is passionate about social justice or considering a career grounded in a commitment to diversity and social change, explore HDS at DivEx to learn more about how the study of religion, theology, and ethics will help you make an impact on the world. For information about HDS and our programs, please complete our HDS Admissions Connect Form. The 2021 DivEx application is closed. Please check back in summer 2022 for next year's application. Who Participates? The primary goal of DivEx is to increase participation by members of groups that have been historically underrepresented or marginalized in the study of religion. We strongly encourage applications from current undergraduates or recent graduates who are students of color, first-generation students, and/or LGBTQ+ students, among other underrepresented groups. We define recent graduates as those whose undergraduate degree was conferred within a year of the DivEx application deadline. Eligibility Note As the focus of this program is to increase the number of students that are underrepresented in the study of religion, we will only accept applications from students residing in the contiguous United States. How Much Does it Cost? DivEx is free. We provide housing, all meals, and domestic airline, bus, or train transportation to and from Boston. Please note that any ground transportation used to arrive to the airport, bus, train station, or other transport terminal, and used to arrive to the HDS campus, either in your home city or after arriving to Boston, is not included. With the evolving religious landscape, constant social movements, and changing political climate in the world, the Harvard Divinity School community recognizes that an interdisciplinary approach to world issues is necessary. I was unsure if I was capable of thriving at a place like Harvard as a first-generation college student coming from the Pacific Islands and growing up in a low-socioeconomic community. My DivEx experience helped me realize I was more than capable of flourishing there, but that I also have a huge contribution to make to the HDS community through my lived experiences. — Nathan Samayo, DivEx ’19, MDiv ’23 2020 DivEx Statistics 16 Participants 94% Seniors in college/university 44% First generation Learn more about DivEx at HDS What can I expect? Network with Harvard Divinity School faculty and current students Engage in panel discussions related to diversity and social justice, graduate study in religion, and the admissions process and financial aid Connect with others around the country who are passionate about diversity and social justice and how the study of religion can impact their work to change the world Talk with current students to help you determine if HDS is a good fit for you How do I apply? Complete the Diversity and Explorations Program application by the deadline, and check out our DivEx Frequently Asked Questions for specifics on the DivEx program and application process. Contact us Email: admissions@hds.harvard.edu. Phone: 617.495.5796 We love to talk about DivEx! DivEx Brochure Read the DivEx brochure to learn more. Note Please note that attendance in the Diversity and Explorations Program does not guarantee admission to Harvard Divinity School. Participants who are seriously considering applying to a degree program at HDS should contact HDS Admissions to discuss the admissions process and the suitability of the program to the student’s future career and educational goals. Not being selected for the Diversity and Explorations Program will not adversely affect future application for admission to any HDS program. The program is not designed for students who already have extensive preparation and robust understanding of the study of religion. Therefore, some students who may be well-qualified for an HDS degree program may not be ideal for participation in DivEx, which is exploratory by design. Diversity and Explorations Program Admissions FAQ How do I apply to Diversity and Explorations? Applicants will be asked to provide: Completed DivEx online application form Personal statement describing your interest in the program Résumé Letter of recommendation from a professor, career mentor, or faith-based leader Academic transcripts See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program Is a COVID-19 vaccination required to participate in DivEx 2021? Harvard is requiring COVID-19 vaccination for all community members who will have any on-campus presences this fall. Candidates selected to participate in DivEx 2021 will receive further information about this requirement. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program Will DivEx 2021 be online or in-person? DivEx 2021 will be an in-person, three-day visit to the HDS campus. However, Harvard Divinity School continues to closely monitor the course of the COVID-19 pandemic and the progress of the vaccination effort. As always, the health and safety of our community members are of paramount importance. Any significant updates, including a shift to remote programming, will be communicated to DivEx candidates and participants immediately upon notice. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program Can I add any information or documents once the application is closed? Can I retrieve documents I used in my application for reference or for future applications? No. Please double-check all documents you include with your application before submitting it. Once an application is submitted, no further changes can be made. Additionally, we cannot return submitted documents for re-use in a future application or for personal review. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program What kind of transcripts will I have to provide in my application? You’ll need to provide HDS with unofficial transcripts for all post-secondary institutions where you have completed, or are currently pursuing a degree, unless the courses and grades from a previous institution are listed on your current, degree-bearing institution’s transcript. You don’t need to submit a separate transcript if they were courses completed at the college level while you were in high school, although you are welcome to submit those if you would like to. If you have any questions about your transcript(s), please contact our office at admissions@hds.harvard.edu. Transcripts must be legible and should include: Course names Dates of attendance Grades, course credits, GPA (if applicable) Transcript legend/key (often found on the back page of the transcript or on the Registrar's website) See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program My recommender does not have or has limited access to the Internet. Can they mail in a hard copy? Can a recommender hand-deliver a letter if they are local? All recommendation letters must be submitted electronically through the online application system. We will not be able to accept any hard copy materials. If you have any questions about this process after reading the application instructions, please reach out to admissions@hds.harvard.edu for more guidance. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program Do I need to wait for my recommender to submit their letter before I submit my application? No. Your recommender will still be able to submit their letter once you have submitted your application up until the application deadline. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program I’ve submitted my application with all required documents, but I still see red ‘x’ marks indicating that some documents have not been uploaded. What does this mean? Our application processing system can take a short while to refresh after an application has been submitted. We recommend you check back in 30 to 60 minutes from the time of submission, which should allow the system to properly refresh. If documents are still shown as missing at that time, please email us at admissions@hds.harvard.edu so we can look into the issue. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program Can I go over the word limit for the Personal Statement? While going slightly over the limit by a few words is acceptable, we do ask that you adhere as closely as possible to the 500-750 word limit for your Personal Statement. See also: Admissions & Aid: Diversity and Explorations Program HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement