Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Nicholas Scrimenti, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed HDS made me a more capacious thinker, a more effective communicator, and a more compassionate presence to those I serve. Memorable Moment My most memorable moment at HDS was delivering my research as part of the annual Stendahl Symposium. It was an honor to share my work and ideas with so many wonderful scholars, colleagues, and friends. Favorite Class or Professor Cornel West taught me to allow suffering to speak and to find joy in the struggle. Stephanie Paulsell taught me that the study of religion is fundamentally a study of our own humanity. Diane Moore taught me that complexity is the beginning of justice and peace. Francis Clooney taught me the challenges and fruits of dialogical encounter. Each class I took at HDS left an indelible mark on my own intellectual and spiritual journey. Thank you to all who taught me with patience and attention. Message of Thanks Above all, I'd like to thank my family for supporting me through challenges and adversity. I also owe a deep debt of gratitude to all those mentors and friends who supported, challenged, and counseled me throughout my time at HDS, especially Zachary Davis, Rev. Robin Lutjohann, Fr. Francis Clooney, Fr. Laurence Freeman, Will Guild, Tom Maridada, Anna Mudd, Christy Waybright, Noahito Miura, and many others. Thank you also to my classmates and colleagues with whom I built a rich intellectual environment in which all could flourish. Future Plans I will be moving to France to live and work at the Abbaye de Bonnevaux, the international home of the World Community for Christian Meditation. The community of Bonnevaux is dedicated to the practice of meditation and lives in the spirit of the Rule of St. Benedict. I am thrilled to be able to continue to work towards fostering our human capacities for contemplation, transformation, and transcendence. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement