Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Heather Joanne Wakefield, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Heather Joanne Wakefield, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I have learned so much at HDS, both from my professors and from my classmates. I feel blessed to have been a student here. I am better able to be a caring presence for those I serve in ministry. HDS has made me stronger and more appreciative of my own gifts as well as those of others. Living and learning within this wonderful, diverse community where all views and contributions are appreciated, I have felt truly alive and like I am in my element. Even though I may, at least temporarily, go back to a less diverse community, I can draw from this experience and feel inspired to make a positive difference in the world. Memorable Moment I have had many memorable moments at HDS and will cherish each of them. The one that stands out is when our "Finding Beauty in a Broken World" class wandered through the Museum of Natural History taking turns sharing stories and reflections based on different items from the museum. When our class ran long, the museum staff allowed us to stay a while after the museum closed. Sitting on the floor in front of the kronosaurus with my classmates both made me feel like a kid on a field trip and feel in awe at being part of such a unique and highly spiritual group. Favorite Class or Professor Again, I have had many wonderful classes and professors. I would have to place Terry Tempest Williams and her class, "Finding Beauty in a Broken World," at the top. The creative, purpose-driven writing that came out of that class focused and renewed my creative spirit. Stephanie Paulsell, Matt Potts, and E. J. Dionne also rank extremely high. And, honestly, I appreciate every professor I have learned from at HDS. I am so glad to have studied under all of them. Message of Thanks I would like to thank Kerry Maloney for being there to listen and provide tissues. You have taught me so much in my time here. Chris Hossfeld, another compassionate soul, has helped keep me laughing and singing. Dean Teddy, Monica Sanford, Clarissa Flores, and everyone else in OMS have been wonderfully supportive as well. And Rev. Amy L. Fisher, my amazing mentor, teacher, and friend. And thank you Katie Caponera for everything you do (and that is a lot). I have many fellow students to thank, beginning with Dan Wells, my dear friend and confident. Thank you Mary Perez for your solid presence and wisdom. There are too many others to keep track of, but I will list as many as I can: John O'Conner for being a great thesis partner; Sophia and Cassie, both excellent chaplain interns (Karl and Diana, you are great too); Cody for brightening my days with your lovable quirkiness; Seokweon for looking out for me; and all my other wonderful classmates who helped make my time at HDS so enriching and special. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement