Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 4accb347c70a41372dd0dfa93f7e55ac Degree Programs HOME / ACADEMICS / Degree Programs Harvard Divinity School offers four masters-level divinity degree programs and a joint HDS/GSAS PhD program. Read more about the PhD program on the Committee on the Study of Religion website. Master of Divinity (MDiv) Master of Theological Studies (MTS) Master of Theology (ThM) Master of Religion and Public Life (MRPL) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Learn About HDS The divinity degree admissions process, the Harvard Divinity community, and how to apply for financial aid. Visit HDS Admissions & Aid Whether your interest in a divinity degree focuses on academic study, field work, ordained ministry, or other callings, the study of theology and religion can be a lifelong asset as you consider and reflect on some of the world's oldest and deepest questions in a supportive, empathetic community. Note: the application deadline for fall 2022 has passed. Visit Apply to HDS for more on the application process. Detailed information about the master’s programs requirements can be found in the HDS Handbook for Students. Applicants interested in the PhD program in religion should contact Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences directly, or visit the Committee on the Study of Religion website. Master of Divinity (MDiv) Master of Theological Studies (MTS) Master of Theology (ThM) Master of Religion in Public Life (MRPL) Doctorate (PhD) Length of Full-Time Study 3 Years 2 years 1 year 1 year 5-7 years Size of Program 147 172 3 12 63 Financial Aid Available Institutional grant aid, work-study, federal loans (based on eligibility) Institutional grant aid, work-study, federal loans (based on eligibility) Federal loans and work-study for U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens (based on eligibility) Federal loans and work-study for U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens 5 years of tuition/fee assistance plus stipend; summer stipends after years 1-4; years 3-4 stipend underwritten by Teaching Fellowships; year 5 funding allows students to complete dissertations. Prior graduate study required for admission None None MDiv or equivalent None Is not required, but it is rare for candidates to be admitted without an AM. Sample core requirements (see HDS Handbook for Students for full master's requirements) 24 courses, field education, and senior seminar. 16 courses, 6 of which are in the student’s chosen area of study 8 courses, 4 of which are in the student’s chosen area of study 8 courses, 4 of which are in the student’s chosen area of study Students register in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. See requirements and full timeline at the Committee on the Study of Religion. Language requirement to be completed while at HDS 3 courses in a language appropriate to the religious tradition the student is studying Intermediate competency in a language relevant to area of study, demonstrated through coursework or examination Intermediate competency in a language relevant to area of study, demonstrated through coursework or examination None Foundational language work for primary research in the area of specialization at the time of application. For more details visit the Committee on the Study of Religion. HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Slate Ping Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement