Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Emily Ostler, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 Emily Ostler, MTS '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment The simple, shared moments of rest on campus stand out most. I cherish afternoons in the garden, talking with classmates as we harvested hops or kale under the sun. I cherish discussions on the lawn outside Swartz Hall, studying in the Braun Room with friends, and meditating in the Multifaith Space on Thursday mornings. I also cherish a few new loves, which I found at divinity school: storytelling, literary Chinese, meditation, tea, and seedlings, to name a few. The friendships, knowledge, and memories I have cultivated here have vivified my world, and I am certain that they will continue to do so. Message of Thanks I would like to thank first my friends here, who laughed with me, bore me up in my injury, celebrated my successes, stretched my thinking, and allowed me that great joy of cherishing and being cherished back: Maisie, Leren, Yisi, Naomi, Ven. Purnajan, Maria, Jacob, Htay, Esedullah, Toby, Ven. Aggadhamma, Oorja, Quinn, Liz, Kate, Justin, Tianyi, and many others. I am so grateful for all of you. I would also like to thank Professor Gyatso for inviting me deeper into the personally and professionally transformative world of Buddhist studies; Professor Robson for guiding and emboldening me in my scholarship; Professor McKanan for keeping me rooted during the pandemic; Dr. Jojo for teaching me the power of together; Terry Tempest Williams for urging me to let the fire within me burn bright; and Leslie MacPherson for bringing me back home to the soil. I also must also thank the myriad critters, plants, and gardeners whom I met regularly at the garden, because it was through them that I came to more clearly see myself miraculously entangled in a web of kin whom I am called to love. Lastly, I would like to thank my parents and my two friends-become-sisters, Laurie and Sarah. Their confidence in me has allowed me to stretch into internal and external worlds I would not have otherwise. Thank you for believing in me. Future Plans I do not know exactly what I will be doing over the next few years, but I do know a bit about how. No matter what I do, I will keep reaching my hands to earth, I will write, and I will labor to live with an ever-braver love. And I will carry you all with me. To my fellow graduates, congratulations! See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement