Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 87c02da0c467b72291e9bc3a71de92e1 Ministry Studies HOME / ACADEMICS / Ministry Studies At HDS, we define ministry broadly: a call to serve others through traditional ordination, chaplaincy, non-profit leadership, doctoral work, and many other occupations. We prepare students in the arts of ministry in a multireligious, academically rigorous environment that fosters the skills and experience needed to enter a life of ministry, however defined. Ministry at HDS The education of learned ministers has been central to Harvard since its founding. Today, the members of the HDS student body reflect an extraordinary diversity of backgrounds and ambitions, and there is something in every field of study that can support ministry preparation. Recognizing that the world is a religiously pluralistic place, students of many faith communities—and none—study side by side here in order to foster a greater understanding of their own traditions in the context of others. Interreligious engagement is key to our approach. Ministry Studies By the Numbers 2020-2021 122 Master of Divinity Students 30 Denominations (approx - and many unaffiliated students) 100+ Field Education Sites Denominational Instruction The multireligious master of divinity degree nurtures the skills necessary for professional ministry in a post-denominational world. Any person seeking ordination should contact their denomination, both at the local and organizational level, for a full understanding of specific requirements. Denominational counselors list Ordination Requirements Different faith traditions have different requirements for ordination. Learn more: Baptist Ordination Buddhist Ordination Jewish Ordination Lutheran Ordination Methodist Ordination Pentecostal Ordination Presbyterian Ordination Unitarian Universalist Ordination United Church of Christ Ordination Field Education Authentic training for the ministry must include both practical experience and reflection on that experience. The Field Education Program at HDS is built around guided learning experiences that integrate theory and practice to develop professional attitudes. More about field education Buddhist Ministry Initiative The Buddhist Ministry Initiative at Harvard Divinity School trains future Buddhist religious professionals from around the world in terms appropriate to modern, global conditions and their own traditions. More about the Buddhist Ministry Initiative Contact Ministry Studies Location: Rockefeller Hall, 2d floor Mailing address Office of Ministry Studies 45 Francis Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Hours (academic year) Monday–Friday, 9am–5pm Phone 617-495-5711 Email ministrystudies@hds.harvard.edu To request a meeting, please send a note to ministrystudies@hds.harvard.edu with your availability and a brief explanation of what you'd like to discuss. Ministry Studies Staff Clarissa Flores Field Education Program Administrator Divinity 217 cflores@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.2923 Teddy Hickman-Maynard Associate Dean for Ministry Studies Lecturer on Ministry ... Read more about Teddy Hickman-Maynard Divinity 222 thickmanmaynard@hds.harvard.edu Leslie MacPherson Departmental Administrator, Office of Ministry Studies ... Read more about Leslie MacPherson Divinity 215 lmacpherson@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.2943 Monica Sanford Assistant Dean for Multireligious Ministry ... Read more about Monica Sanford Divinity 220 msanford@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.0133 Laura Tuach Assistant Dean for Ministry Studies and Field Education ... Read more about Laura Tuach Divinity 219 ltuach@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.4100 Gloria White-Hammond Swartz Resident Practitioner in Ministry Studies ... Read more about Gloria White-Hammond Divinity 223 p: 617.496.1806 HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement