Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / FACULTY & RESEARCH / Faculty News and Research Photos: Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 June 1, 2022 Graduates from the three most recent classes were celebrated by Harvard Divinity School and Harvard University... Read more about Photos: Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 Maggie Rogers on Creating Intention, Connection through Music at Harvard Divinity May 26, 2022 The songwriter, producer, and performer will earn a Master of Religion and Public Life degree... Read more about Maggie Rogers on Creating Intention, Connection through Music at Harvard Divinity 'Creating from Fragments' May 25, 2022 Susan Shallcross Swartz Professor of the Practice of Christian Studies Stephanie Paulsell was the faculty speaker during the Multireligious Commencement Service on May 25, 2022. The following remarks were delivered by Paulsell during the service at Memorial Church.... Read more about 'Creating from Fragments' Dean David Hempton on Buffalo Shooting May 18, 2022 The below message was sent to members of the HDS community from Dean David N. Hempton on May 16, 2022.... Read more about Dean David Hempton on Buffalo Shooting HDS Students Create Exhibit on Black Church Arson May 16, 2022 Students in Professor Todne Thomas’s course, “Black Church Burning,” curated and created items for the exhibit on display at the Harvard Divinity School Library.... Read more about HDS Students Create Exhibit on Black Church Arson Buddhist Chaplains on the Rise in US, Offering Broad Appeal May 15, 2022 In a first-of-its-kind report published this month, Monica Sanford, Assistant Dean for Multireligious Ministry, Cheryl Giles, Francis Greenwood Peabody Senior Lecturer on Pastoral Care and Counseling, and a team of authors identified 425 chaplains in the United States, Canada and Mexico representing all major branches of Buddhism, though the researchers say there are likely many more. Hucks, Greene-Hayes Join Harvard Divinity School Faculty May 2, 2022 Harvard Divinity School (HDS) is pleased to announce the appointment of two scholars of Africana Studies and African American Religious Studies to the HDS faculty. Dr. Tracey E. Hucks will join HDS as Victor S. Thomas Professor... Read more about Hucks, Greene-Hayes Join Harvard Divinity School Faculty In Run-up to Election, French Politics Has Normalized Anti-Muslim Sentiment: Experts April 23, 2022 “Worse still, on some issues it’s very hard to see any difference between Macron and Le Pen, especially on the visibility of Muslims. Some of Macron’s ministers have been even more excessive than she has on this matter," says HDS Visiting Professor Jocelyne Cesari. Way Forward on Climate Change April 22, 2022 “I don’t see grief as the opposite of hope,” said Terry Tempest Williams, writer-in-residence at the Harvard Divinity School and environmental author and advocate, referring to the sense of loss shared by some over the damage already done. “But if we acknowledge the world is dying then we can move past the depression and do something.” 'Can I Keep the Faith?' April 15, 2022 Francis X. Clooney, S.J., Parkman Professor of Divinity, Professor of Comparative Theology, delivered the following remarks at Morning Prayers in Harvard's Memorial Church on April 15, 2022. ♦♦♦ ... Read more about 'Can I Keep the Faith?' 1 of 23 » Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement