Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / FACULTY & RESEARCH / Faculty of Divinity Giovanni Bazzana Professor of New Testament ... Read more about Giovanni Bazzana gbazzana@hds.harvard.edu Ann D. Braude Senior Lecturer on American Religious History Director of the Women's Studies in Religion Program ... Read more about Ann D. Braude 56 Francis Ave. abraude@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.5705 Catherine Brekus Charles Warren Professor of the History of Religion in America Chair of the Committee on the Study of Religion (FAS) ... Read more about Catherine Brekus cbrekus@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.7480 Davíd Carrasco Neil L. Rudenstine Professor of the Study of Latin America, with a joint appointment with the Department of Anthropology in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences ... Read more about Davíd Carrasco Divinity 304 Francis X. Clooney, S.J. Parkman Professor of Divinity Professor of Comparative Theology ... Read more about Francis X. Clooney, S.J. CSWR 209 fclooney@hds.harvard.edu Diana L. Eck Professor of Comparative Religion and Indian Studies Fredric Wertham Professor of Law and Psychiatry in Society in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences ... Read more about Diana L. Eck Barker Center 307 dianaeck@fas.harvard.edu p: 617.493.1600; 617.495.5781 Cheryl A. Giles Francis Greenwood Peabody Senior Lecturer on Pastoral Care and Counseling ... Read more about Cheryl A. Giles Divinity 308 cheryl_giles@harvard.edu Mohsen Goudarzi Assistant Professor in Islamic Studies ... Read more about Mohsen Goudarzi mgoudarzi@hds.harvard.edu Janet Gyatso Hershey Professor of Buddhist Studies Associate Dean for Faculty and Academic Affairs ... Read more about Janet Gyatso Swartz 211 jgyatso@hds.harvard.edu Charles Hallisey Yehan Numata Senior Lecturer on Buddhist Literatures ... Read more about Charles Hallisey Swartz 311 challisey@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.384.7872 David N. Hempton, Dean Dean of the Faculty of Divinity Alonzo L. McDonald Family Professor of Evangelical Theological Studies John Lord O'Brian Professor of Divinity ... Read more about David N. Hempton, Dean Swartz 210 Teddy Hickman-Maynard Associate Dean for Ministry Studies Lecturer on Ministry ... Read more about Teddy Hickman-Maynard Divinity 222 thickmanmaynard@hds.harvard.edu David F. Holland John A. Bartlett Professor of New England Church History ... Read more about David F. Holland Swartz 315 dholland@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.2327 Amy Hollywood Elizabeth H. Monrad Professor of Christian Studies ... Read more about Amy Hollywood Divinity 401 ahollywood@hds.harvard.edu Michael D. Jackson Distinguished Visiting Professor of World Religions ... Read more about Michael D. Jackson Swartz 408 mjackson@hds.harvard.edu Ousmane Oumar Kane Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Professor of Contemporary Islamic Religion and Society Professor of African and African American Studies (FAS) Denominational Counselor to Muslim Students ... Read more about Ousmane Oumar Kane Swartz 312 okane@hds.harvard.edu Karen L. King Hollis Professor of Divinity ... Read more about Karen L. King Swartz 501 kking@hds.harvard.edu David C. Lamberth Professor of Philosophy and Theology ... Read more about David C. Lamberth Divinity 402 Jon D. Levenson Albert A. List Professor of Jewish Studies ... Read more about Jon D. Levenson Divinity 321 Kevin J. Madigan Winn Professor of Ecclesiastical History Faculty Dean, Eliot House, Harvard College ... Read more about Kevin J. Madigan Swartz 406 Dan McKanan Ralph Waldo Emerson Unitarian Universalist Association Senior Lecturer in Divinity ... Read more about Dan McKanan Divinity 409 dmckanan@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.2665 Diane L. Moore Faculty Director, Religion and Public Life Lecturer in Religion, Conflict, and Peace Senior Fellow at the Center for the Study of World Religions ... Read more about Diane L. Moore Divinity 206 dlmoore@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.3854 Jacob K. Olupona Professor of African Religious Traditions, with a joint appointment as Professor of African and African American Studies in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences ... Read more about Jacob K. Olupona CSWR 114 jkolupona@hds.harvard.edu Kimberley C. Patton Professor of the Comparative and Historical Study of Religion ... Read more about Kimberley C. Patton Swartz 503 p: 617.496.3395 Stephanie Paulsell Susan Shallcross Swartz Professor of the Practice of Christian Studies Faculty Dean, Eliot House, Harvard College ... Read more about Stephanie Paulsell Swartz 405 spaulsell@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.496.3579 Matthew Ichihashi Potts Plummer Professor of Christian Morals and Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church ... Read more about Matthew Ichihashi Potts mpotts@hds.harvard.edu Mayra Rivera Andrew W. Mellon Professor of Religion and Latinx Studies ... Read more about Mayra Rivera Divinity 405 Michelle C. Sanchez Associate Professor of Theology ... Read more about Michelle C. Sanchez msanchez@hds.harvard.edu Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza Krister Stendahl Professor of Divinity ... Read more about Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza Swartz 403 Teren Sevea Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Assistant Professor of Islamic Studies ... Read more about Teren Sevea Divinity 406B tsevea@hds.harvard.edu 1 of 2 » Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research News and Events Visit HDS News Faculty & Staff by Last Name A-E F-J K-O P-T U-Z Filter by Affiliation All Faculty and Instructors All Staff Denominational Counselors Faculty by Type Faculty of Divinity Research Professors and Emeriti Visiting Faculty Others Offering Instruction Select an office Academic Affairs Administrative Dean's Office Admissions Career Services Center for the Study of World Religions Chaplain and Religious and Spiritual Life Communications Dean's Office Development and External Relations Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Finance Financial Aid Human Resources Information Technology and Media Services Library Ministry Studies Operations Registrar's Office Religion and Public Life Student Life Student Services Women's Studies in Religion Program HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement