Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ACADEMICS / Finding Courses HDS offers a wide variety of courses designed to appeal to a broad spectrum of interests and to give students both breadth and depth of knowledge in a variety of fields, religious traditions, languages, and concepts. Lecture courses typically are an opportunity to more broadly explore, while seminars give students an in-depth look at a specific topic, idea, or concept. Students in all degree programs are strongly encouraged to venture outside their immediate areas of interest and experience. Harvard University's student information system, my.harvard, provides the definitive listing of courses at HDS and is updated regularly. To browse course listings by instructor or program requirement see Finding Courses in my.harvard (below). HDS reserves the right to withdraw or modify courses as appropriate. Limited enrollment courses To register for a course with limited enrollment, students must obtain the approval of the instructor during the my.harvard enrollment or cross-registration process. (See Permission Required to Enroll in my.harvard.) Instructors reserve the right to make their initial selection from among Harvard Divinity School students. Reading and research courses PhD, ThM, and specially qualified master of theological studies (MTS) and master of divinity (MDiv) candidates may choose to engage in independent study with a faculty member, individually or in small groups. Reading and Research courses are equivalent to a four-unit course and may be taken for a letter grade or on a Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory basis. To register, students should list the course as "Reading and Research" and must obtain the faculty member's signature during the course shopping period. Only full members of the HDS Faculty may supervise a Reading and Research course. A specific title may be assigned to a reading and research course upon the student’s consultation with the faculty member. Textbooks Federal law requires Harvard to disclose certain information about the textbooks instructors have assigned for courses at Harvard Divinity School. The Harvard Coop has agreed to provide this information to students, who may access it via the my.harvard Course Search. Use the "Harvard Coop" link on each course detail page to see updated textbook information on the Coop's website. Information on all HDS course offerings can be found in my.harvard, Harvard University's student information system. Finding courses in my.harvard Accessing my.harvard If you do not have a HarvardKey login and password, go to the public Course Search using any web browser. If you have a HarvardKey login and password: Go to the my.harvard Portal using any web browser. Click "Student, Teaching + Advising Portal" Log in with your HarvardKey login and password when prompted. Finding courses You can look at my.harvard courses in three ways: Use the "Search Courses" search box Use the Advanced Search Browse lists of courses Use the "Search Courses" search box. On the left side of the Search Courses search box, use the drop-down menu to change "All" to "HDS." Enter words in the search box to search for courses by topic or instructor, or * to see all courses. Then click the Search Courses button. Once the search results appear, use the filters on the left to narrow your results by semester or other criteria. Use the Advanced Search. To perform a more targeted search that includes day, time, availability for cross-registration, and/or degree requirements, use the "Advanced Search" link to the right of the search box. At the top of the Advanced Search page, use the "Find courses with" section to search by instructor, or to find courses open to students from BTI or other Harvard schools, or to choose the term or day. Be sure to choose "Divinity School" as the School to see only HDS courses. Expand the "HDS-Additional Attributes" section to search for courses that satisfy Area of Focus, Art of Ministry, language, or other degree requirements. Browse lists of courses. Choose "Harvard Divinity School" from the Browse Courses section of the Course Search home page to see lists of all courses, courses open to BTI students, required courses, and courses by various degree requirements. Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement