Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ALUMNI & FRIENDS / Giving Societies Through our giving societies, Harvard Divinity School celebrates alumni and friends who provide sustaining philanthropic support to the School. Your gifts help us strengthen religious education and literacy and promote understanding across global divides. Leadership Society The HDS Leadership Society recognizes individuals who give annual contributions of $1,000 or more to the School. These gifts play an integral role in advancing the mission of HDS and provide essential support for our students, faculty, and degree programs. All Leadership Society members are invited to our annual Dean’s Leadership Forum. Held in Cambridge each spring, the Forum is an opportunity for Harvard Divinity School’s most devoted alumni and friends to connect with thought leaders in faith, ethics, culture, politics, public life, and many other spheres. As our philanthropic leaders, members of this society create significant impact on the lives of HDS students and all those whose lives they touch through their service, fellowship, action, and innovation. Leaders in Innovation ($25,000+) Leaders in Action ($10,000–24,999) Leaders in Fellowship ($5,000–9,999) Leaders in Service ($1,000–4,999) To make participation more accessible for our recent graduates, we offer special giving thresholds to join the Leadership Society: 0–4 years out: $250 minimum one-time gift or only $21 per month 5–9 years out: $500 minimum one-time gift or only $42 per month Ready to become an HDS leader? Make your leadership gift. Gifts can be made all at once or spread out through the year on a monthly basis. Make Your Leadership Gift For more information about the Leadership Society, contact Megan Welch, associate director for development strategy and donor relations. Emerson Circle Members of the Emerson Circle have contributed to the School for 10 or more consecutive years. For their unwavering loyalty HDS extends its deepest gratitude to these individuals, who are recognized annually in the Dean’s Report. For more information, contact Megan Welch, associate director for development strategy and donor relations. James Luther Adams Society HDS honors our friends who have pledged their support to the School through life income plans, bequests, gifts-in-kind, or other planned gift arrangements. They are recognized annually in the Dean’s Report. For more information, contact Suzannah Lutz. Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean’s Report The Peter J. Gomes, STB ’68 Distinguished Alumni Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni Frequently Asked Questions HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement