Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / Privacy Policy This Privacy Policy discloses the privacy practices for the Harvard Divinity School website. By using this website, you are consenting to our collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. Information gathering 1) Registering for an account If you register or apply for a program on our website or request information or other resources, we may ask for your name, email address, mailing address, phone number, position, affiliation, or other personal information. We may also ask you for other information at other times. We use this information to respond to your inquiries, to customize your experience on the website, to improve our content and to provide you with email notifications related to your interests. 2) Browsing information and cookies When you access this website, our servers automatically record information that your browser provides. This may include, among other data, your Internet Protocol (IP) address, browser type, device identifiers and location, the date and time of your access, web pages visited, and files accessed. We do not link IP addresses to any personally identifiable information. Logs of IP addresses are retained on a temporary basis, and then deleted from our system. This website will attempt to store a small piece of data known as a "cookie" on your computer, which will be read each time you visit the site. We may use cookies to establish continuity between related requests, to personalize the site to your preferences, to authenticate your log-in, and to analyze site traffic. Cookies do not themselves contain any personal information. You may choose to block cookies with your browser, but if you do, you may not be able to take advantage of all of this site's features. Harvard Divinity School uses Google Analytics to gather statistics for some of its web pages. The information gathered is used to improve web services. Google Analytics uses a browser cookie for statistical analysis related to your browsing behavior on these websites. If you choose, you can opt out by turning off cookies in the preferences settings in your browser, or download and install Google Analytics Opt-out Browser Add-on at http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. For more information on Google Analytics, please visit http://www.google.com/analytics/. Some pages of the Harvard Divinity School website use Ping, a web analytics service provided by Technolutions, Inc. Ping uses cookies to associate user behaviors on our website with user profiles in our database of prospective students. We use this service to assess our website’s effectiveness in providing information for those applying for admission to HDS. Harvard Divinity School uses third-party vendor re-marketing tracking tools, including the Google Adwords tracking cookie and Facebook pixel, to serve ads about the School, our programs, and events online. These ads appear on Facebook, Google products, and on sites across the Internet. The third-party vendors use cookies, web beacons, and similar technologies to tailor the ads based on your past visits to our website and elsewhere online and to measure ad conversion. To opt-out of the collection and use of information for ad targeting on Facebook, please visit www.aboutads.info/choices. To opt-out of Google's use of cookies, please visit Google’s Ads Settings. You can also opt out of a third-party vendor's use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Finally, Harvard Divinity School uses Blue Green Analytics to gather statistics for some of its web pages. The information gathered is used to understand, analyze, and improve the performance of digital experiences. Blue Green Analytics collects readily available metadata from visitors from the website. If you choose, you can opt out by turning off cookies in the preferences settings in your browser. 3) User communications When you send email or other communications to us, we may retain the communications in order to process your inquiries, respond to your requests and improve our services. You should also be aware that, when you voluntarily disclose personal information in discussion groups, that information may be collected by others and may result in unsolicited messages from others. Use of information We use the information collected for the following purposes, in addition to those described above: tailoring the website to user needs and improving our service; generating data and reports about usage of the website and its content, including identifying how much of our audience comes from within the Harvard network; supporting the functioning and security of the website; protecting our rights and safety and the rights and safety of others; and research. We may evaluate site usage by collecting statistics about the behavior of visitors to this website and analyzing user information and demographics, but only to generate aggregate statistical reports. For this purpose, we may use third-party services to collect such information. We may display this statistical information publicly or provide it to others. At no time do we disclose site usage by individual visitors or by IP addresses. We may provide your personally identifiable information to third parties when we believe that doing so is necessary or appropriate to: satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request; investigate compliance with or enforce our Terms of Use; detect, prevent or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues; or protect our rights and safety and the rights and safety of our users or others. Other websites and cookies This website may contain links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such web sites. Cookies may be set by parties other than us. These "third-party cookies" may, for example, originate from websites such as YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Google Plus or other social media services for we have implemented "plug-ins." Since the cookie policies of these sites change over time, you should determine their policies by visiting the privacy policy pages of these sites directly. Information protection This site has security measures in place to help protect against the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. However, no such measures are 100% secure. Users located in the European Economic Area If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you. Contacting this website If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, you can contact Susan Worst in the HDS Office of IT and Media Services. Changes to this policy We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time. If we change the policy, we will post the modified policy on this page. Effective date The effective date of this policy is March 10, 2021. HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement