Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Bilal Rehman, MTS '22 May 27, 2022 Bilal Rehman Courtesy Photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed My peers at HDS challenged me to be a better person and to live more fully. In delicate moments, I've learned to love carrying my and others' complexities. Within community, I've learned how we can ask more of each other out of love for each other, and grapple with the limits of the institution that brought us together. Finally, I've come away with a much deeper appreciation for my religious and intellectual heritages. Message of Thanks I thank all my teachers who nurtured me over the last years. I especially thank Professor Mayra Rivera, my advisor and teacher, who taught me (by example) that the most critical thinking requires care, patience, and deep moral sensibility. I thank Dr. Gloria White-Hammond for teaching me how to provide care with attention to the whole richness and depth of life, and my chaplain mentors, Bruce Aguilar and Amanda Harmeling, who exemplified this many times in our spiritual care work. I also thank my teachers of social medicine who helped me radically reconceptualize illness and health. I thank the Muslim community at HDS for the collective presence, chai, and karahi. Finally, I thank the friends who pushed me to think and be more deeply and authentically, with whom I shared countless moments of laughter, snow, sunshine, and music. I love you all and look forward to a life of further being, thinking, and laughing together. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement