Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ACADEMICS / PROFESSIONAL AND LIFELONG LEARNING / MAKING CHANGE 2022 FACULTY / Making Change FAQs Admissions Procedure How do I apply to the program? You must submit the application and be available to answer any follow up questions we may have. Upon acceptance you will meet with the program manager to help you prepare for the program. Is there an application fee? There is no application fee for our Professional and Lifelong Learning programs. How long does it take to process my application? You can expect a response to your application within two weeks of submission. Is there a deadline for applying? We accept applications on a rolling basis until 30 days before the program starts. We recommend submitting your application as soon as possible. About the Program Where is the program being held? The program will be held on the Harvard Divinity School campus, located in the northwest corner of Harvard’s campus in Cambridge. Our address is 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, MA. Here is a map of our campus and a link to the greater Harvard University campus. Who can I expect to meet at the program? Past Making Change participants have included mid-level to senior level professionals from a variety of industries throughout the globe who want to be better leaders, successful professionals interested in deepening their understanding of the intersections between faith traditions, spirituality, and the contemporary world in which we all live, work, and hope to thrive, ministers looking for respite and recharging, and generally curious people. What expenses are covered by the program? The program fee covers all lectures and materials. We provide breakfast, lunch, and dinner with the exception of Wednesday night when you are free to explore the Cambridge/Boston area. You are responsible for your travel and accommodations. We can recommend local hotels that have special rates for our program. What type of food will be served during the program? We work closely with our caterers to ensure our meals accommodate special requirements of our participants. Before the program starts you will be asked to share any special food requirements. We will always offer a vegetarian option and all meat will be halal. What will I receive upon completion of the program? You will receive a Certificate of Completion from the Harvard Divinity School. Will I be considered an alumnus of Harvard Divinity School? Yes, although not at the same level as a graduate school candidate, you will receive a copy of semi-annual magazine, the Harvard Divinity Bulletin, and our regular email newsletter, the HDS Current. Payment and Cancellation When is the program fee due? Payment is due within 30 days of acceptance or 10 days before the program start date, whichever is earlier. What types of payment are accepted? Payment can be made by check, electronic bank transfer, or credit card (Visa, MasterCard, and American Express). Detailed information regarding payment will be included with your invoice. What is your cancellation policy? Participants can withdraw their registration subject to the following refund schedule:15 or more days before the program start: full refund; 8–14 days before start: 50 percent refund; within 7 days of start: no refund Preparing for the Program How do I prepare for the program? In April you will have access to the course site where you can find the syllabus and the readings. We highly recommend that you complete all the readings before arriving on campus. We will be sending you the book, Apeirogon, by Colum McCann, which is required reading. In addition to the book, you can expect 15-20 hours of preparation. You will also need to provide a headshot and biographical information about yourself that will be shared with the faculty. Instructions for submission will be provided at a later date. What should I wear? Dress for classes is casual. Jeans are perfectly acceptable. We want you to be comfortable. The weather in New England can change quickly with temperatures in June ranging from 55 to 95 degrees. We recommend dressing in layers. Also, be sure to bring comfortable walking shoes, a rain jacket, and an umbrella. Do I need to bring a laptop or tablet for the program? You should bring a laptop, tablet, or at least a smartphone. We will send e-notices and session updates to you over the course of the week, and will ask for your feedback in electronic format. Safety What type of COVID-19 testing is required? To ensure a safe campus experience, we are adhering to the university’s COVID-19 guidelines, which currently require participants to attest they are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, including a booster, and provide a negative COVID 19 test result within 48 hours of arrival on campus. Please note that guidelines may change prior to the start of the program and any changes will be communicated. Travel Plans What is the best way for getting around the Cambridge area? We recommend that you NOT rent a car. Classes will be held on the HDS campus. The suggested hotels are less than a mile away. If you are flying into Logan International Airport, you can take free public transportation to Harvard or Porter Square via the Silver and Red Lines. A taxi, or ride share can range from $25.00 to $30.00. If arriving by train, take the Red Line to Harvard or Porter Square (the fare is $2.40 one way). A taxi or ride share will likely be in the range of $20.00 to $25.00. For local participants, parking can be arranged through the program manager. What else is there do to while I am in Harvard Square? A great source of local information is Harvard Square and the Boston Calendar. Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Making Change 2022 Faculty Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement