Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Yaseen Hashmi, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Yaseen Hashmi, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I have learned that in most scenarios, rigor and tenderness work better hand-in-hand. Tenderness at the cost of rigor can make a person into a jello with no principles, and rigor at the cost of tenderness sends a person careening. But ideas and people that inspire both rigor and tenderness are worth holding onto. My time at HDS has provided many opportunities to do deeply critical, tender work, and enjoy both the shallows and depths of the people around me. Memorable Moment During the Religion, Conflict and Peace Initiative's January 2020 trip to Palestine, a storm hit Jerusalem at the same time as the international fallout over the American assassination of Qasem Soleimani. Our daily debrief session was tense and quiet while winds, thunder, and pouring rain kept our immediate context on our minds. Professor Moore said, "I hope, even in dark times like these, that we can see a little light." As she said the word light, the hotel power went out and everything went pitch black. After a beat, everybody burst out laughing together in the dark. This laughter would come back to me, as absurd tragedy led to absurd tragedy for the rest of 2020, and I still return to it today. Message of Thanks My parents and grandparents. It is crazy how often I would seek to learn something new and find myself actually coming to understand things they had taught me long ago. I'm grateful for all I have learned, and all I have yet to learn from what I have already been taught. My brothers were my "classmates" for the middle year of my MDiv. I feel so lucky we could all go to class from the same house and learn together. Each professor I have had has changed me for the better. Professors Ousmane Kane, Cornel West, Teren Sevea and Diane Moore deserve special shout-outs, as do Shaykh Yasir Fahmy and Reem Atassi, Hilary Rantisi, and Atalia Omer. Thank you all! My divinity school friends have pushed me every day to think differently and be better. And together we have had so much fun! For many of us, our relationships are only just beginning. I cannot wait to keep loving you! See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement