Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / DIRECTORY / David N. Hempton, Dean David N. Hempton, Dean Dean of the Faculty of Divinity Alonzo L. McDonald Family Professor of Evangelical Theological Studies John Lord O'Brian Professor of Divinity Education BA, Queen's University (Belfast) PhD, University of St. Andrews Profile David Hempton is the Alonzo L. McDonald Family Professor of Evangelical Theological Studies, John Lord O’Brian Professor of Divinity, and Dean of Harvard Divinity School. He has taught at Harvard since 2007 where he moved from his position as University Professor at Boston University. He was appointed Dean of the Faculty of HDS in 2012. Hempton is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society, Honorary Member of the Royal Irish Academy, and former Professor of Modern History and Director of the School of History in the Queen’s University of Belfast. In October 2021, Hempton was the featured speaker for the Gifford Lectures, one of the most prestigious honors in Scottish academia. His series of lectures is titled “Networks, Nodes, and Nuclei in the History of Christianity, c. 1500 – 2020.” See "HDS Dean Hempton to Deliver Prestigious Gifford Lectures" for links to the lecture texts and recordings. Hempton is a former chairman of the Wiles Trust founded in 1951 by Sir Herbert Butterfield to promote innovative thinking on the history of civilization, broadly conceived. He has held fellowships from the Wolfson and Nuffield Foundations in the United Kingdom and the National Endowment of the Humanities in the United States. He has lectured extensively in Europe, the United States and beyond, and delivered many sets of endowed lectures including the Cadbury Lectures at the University of Birmingham, the F. D. Maurice Lectures at King’s College London, and the Tate-Willson Lectures at Southern Methodist University. Hempton will deliver the Gifford Lectures in the university of Edinburgh in October 2021. He has research and teaching interests in religion and political culture, religious identities and ethnic conflicts, the interdisciplinary study of lived religion, the history and theology of Evangelical Protestantism and Pentecostalism, the global history of Christianity since 1500, and religious disenchantment and secularization. He has won prestigious teaching awards at both Boston University and Harvard. Hempton has published over a hundred articles and book chapters, and many books, including Methodism and Politics in British Society 1750-1850 (Stanford University Press, 1984), winner of the Whitfield prize of the Royal Historical Society; “Methodism in Irish Society,” proxime accessit for the Alexander Prize of the Royal Historical Society; (with M. Hill) Evangelical Protestantism in Ulster Society 1740-1890 (Routledge, 1992); Religion and Political Culture in Britain and Ireland: From the Glorious Revolution to the Decline of Empire (Cambridge University Press, 1996), short-listed for the Ewart-Biggs Memorial prize; The Religion of the People: Methodism and Popular Religion c. 1750-1900 (Routledge, 1996); ‘Faith and Enlightenment’ in The Short Oxford History of the British Isles (Oxford University Press, 2002); Methodism: Empire of the Spirit (Yale University Press, 2005), winner of the Jesse Lee prize; Evangelical Disenchantment: Nine Portraits of Faith and Doubt (Yale University Press, 2008), The Church in the Long Eighteenth Century (I. B. Tauris, 2011), winner of the Albert C. Outler Prize of the American Society of Church History; and (with Hugh McLeod ed.), Secularization and Religious Innovation in the North Atlantic World (Oxford University Press, 2017). In 2013, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Literature by Queen’s University Belfast for services to History and Divinity. In 2020 he was elected Honorary Member of the Royal Irish Academy. Selected publications Secularization and Religious Innovation in the North Atlantic World (Oxford University Press, 2017) The Church in the Long Eighteenth Century (I.B. Tauris, 2011) Evangelical Disenchantment: Nine Portraits of Faith and Doubt (Yale University Press, 2008) Methodism: Empire of the Spirit (Yale University Press, 2005) Religion and Political Culture in Britain and Ireland (Cambridge University Press, 1996) The Religion of the People (Routledge, 1996) Methodism and Politics in British Society, 1750-1850 (1984; Routledge, 2009) Assistant Bernadette Emmons Holder See also President Faust Introduces David Hempton as New HDS Dean Enchantment and Disenchantment in the Evangelical Tradition (video) 'Enchantment and Disenchantment in the Evangelical Tradition,' Harvard Divinity Bulletin 'The Fog of Religious Conflict,' Harvard Divinity Bulletin Keynote Lecture, Conference on American Religious History Review of The Church in the Long Eighteenth Century For media inquiries or requests, please contact Michael Naughton in the Office of Communications. Contact Information Swartz 210 office Dean's Office Affiliation Faculty Staff Alpha Grouping F-J Faculty Type Executive Education Faculty of Divinity Media Expertise Christianity Church History Evangelism Politics and Religion Protestantism, Protestant Theology code to generate courses data using AJAX Faculty & Staff by Last Name A-E F-J K-O P-T U-Z Filter by Affiliation All Faculty and Instructors All Staff Denominational Counselors Faculty by Type Faculty of Divinity Research Professors and Emeriti Visiting Faculty Others Offering Instruction Select an office Academic Affairs Administrative Dean's Office Admissions Career Services Center for the Study of World Religions Chaplain and Religious and Spiritual Life Communications Dean's Office Development and External Relations Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Finance Financial Aid Human Resources Information Technology and Media Services Library Ministry Studies Operations Registrar's Office Religion and Public Life Student Life Student Services Women's Studies in Religion Program HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement