Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Mary Perez, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Mary Perez, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment I have many precious memories of playing and singing with my friends in our band, Divine Intervention. It has been a gift to make music together and offer our music to the HDS community. From Seasons of Light and Noon Service in 60 Oxford to remote music videos to playing in Swartz Hall, the music of this group has buoyed my spirit and grounded me in a circle of goodness. The band in all of its iterations with Julia, Kate, Margaret, Carolyn, Madeline, Nicole, and Virginia will continue to grace the memories of my heart with joy. I’m grateful to each of you, and I especially thank Chris Hossfeld for asking us to sing together our first year and supporting our music-making throughout our time at HDS. Favorite Class or Professor Does “Sloppy Sections” count as a favorite class?! My creative classmates, Lóre and Eva, acted on our hope for another space to process our learning together and organized "Sloppy Sections." I loved our tarot readings with tater tots and fries at Cambridge Common. Laughter, intentionality, and learning from each other fill my memories of our time together. Message of Thanks I am so grateful for the many people who have inspired me! I thank my pod, Julia, Margaret, and Kate, for your faithful, loving friendship. I’m grateful to my MDiv cohort, classmates and friends, my pals in HDS choir, the Tuesday Morning Eucharist community, my HDSSA cohort, my SCDI committee members, the Noon Service community, and the Catholic community of Catholic Renewal and HDS Catholics. Many, many thanks to my field ed supervisors, Lauren Kerby, who accompanied me during the outset of the pandemic and continues to foster my writing and thinking, and Ashley Y. Lipscomb (MDiv ‘20), who inspires me to create freedom and liberatory futures. And abundant thanks and gratitude to my family, especially my parents and siblings, and community afar whose love and support have helped me become more me. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement