Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Prince Jenkins, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Prince Jenkins, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I caught my breath here. I have learned how to ebb and flow with great seers, makers, mages, and sages. I clarified my intentions here. I cleared up some ignorance and gained the capacity to be with uncertainty and more of the mystery. I became more responsible and more willing to be responsible for my contribution to the noise. I took important steps to address my perpetuation of inherited trauma and I broke through some critical generational ceilings here. The program itself was a gift and the monastic way of life I embraced due to the quarantine also yielded gifts. Message of Thanks These are the kind spirits that held space for me in this part of my journey; thank you for helping me with my process: Malta, Ludo, Piale, Rosalyn D. and Frankey H., Danielle H., Andrea K., Katie Mae H., Siobhan F., Michael H., Ayauna M., Phira B., and Chanelle G. These are the rockstars I came to Harvard to witness and be witnessed by: Cody H., Jess Y., Natalia S., Mary P., Lindsay S., Malini S., Amy M., Katie D., Rebecca M. N., Keerthi R., Maisie L., Amy G., Aliyah C., and my entire senior seminar cohort. Your clarity helped me become more clear, John O. and Thomas M. These instructors participated with my questions; I walked away feeling deeply heard and ready to shift to the next curiosity: Ntuli Akyampeong, Phiwokuhle Mnyandu, Leslie McPherson, Georgette Ledgister, David Holland, Teren Sevea, Jean Comaroff, Janet Gyatso, Naya Jones, Leida Tolentino, and Joh Camara. What I Hope to Be Remembered By Not remembered by, but remember to: I want my classmates to remember to contact me if I pop up meaningfully in their processing or in their dreams. I want to be remembered in a way that leads those whom I've interacted with to be prepared for and excited to receive a DM or email from me, out of the blue, passionately seeking to make meaning from an excerpt of a class text or a shared moment. Future Plans I will continue investigating how to be a good guest on lands that have been taken without consent and how to be a better neighbor to the different categories of animals I encounter and whose lives better mine. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement