Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ALUMNI & FRIENDS / Giving COVID-19 Update - January 26, 2021 We are deeply grateful for your support, always and right now. Thank you for helping us to support our students, faculty, and staff as we all adapt to fast-changing realities. Please note that at this time it may take longer than usual for your gifts to be processed and acknowledged. It is particularly important to mail checks to Harvard University’s lockbox (Harvard University, PO Box 419209, Boston, MA 02241-9209) rather than to Harvard Divinity School’s Office of Development and External Relations. Please make checks payable to “Harvard Divinity School.” If you have any questions, please email giving@hds.harvard.edu. ♦♦♦ Thank you for supporting Harvard Divinity School. Gifts of any size help advance the School’s mission to increase knowledge of the world’s religious traditions, to meet the twenty-first century’s need for spiritual leadership, and to serve humanity through the education of religiously literate, ethical professionals in all fields. Give by credit card Give online using HDS’s giving form Call the Office of Alumni and Development Services at 617.495.1750 Give by check Enclose a check payable to: "Harvard Divinity School" and mail to: Harvard University PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 Give with securities To make a gift of securities please follow the instructions or contact the Harvard Management Company via email or at 866.845.6596. To ensure proper processing and crediting of your gift we strongly recommend that you also notify HDS Donor Relations of the stock transfer by sending an email to giving@hds.harvard.edu or by completing Harvard’s online form. Give with a bank wire To send a gift via bank wire, please follow the instructions on Harvard’s giving page. Please also notify HDS Donor Relations of the stock transfer by sending an email to giving@hds.harvard.edu. Matching gifts Find out if your employer will match your gift using our Matching Gift Program search. Please send matching gift forms, along with any related checks, to the HDS office at the address below: Harvard Divinity School Development Office Attn: Sarah Rubin 45 Francis Ave Cambridge, MA 02138 Planned giving If you are interested in making a planned gift or bequest, please contact the HDS Office of Development and External Relations at giving@hds.harvard.edu or 617.495.1778. Giving societies We are deeply grateful to the many alumni and friends who help advance the mission of HDS. We celebrate the many different ways they provide leadership support through our giving societies. For questions or more information about how to support HDS, please contact Kristin Ponte, Alumni Relations and Annual Giving Officer. Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean’s Report The Peter J. Gomes, STB ’68 Distinguished Alumni Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni Frequently Asked Questions HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement