Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Lindsay Sanwald, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Lindsay Sanwald outside Harvard Divinity School, Harvard Staff Photographer HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment Throwing an impromptu Divinity School dance party on the steps of Widener Library the night the 2020 election was called. Staying after hours in the Harvard Museum of Natural History to tell stories to one another in front of dinosaur bones a few weeks before we were all sent home. Getting a true taste of the monastic life thanks to a worldwide shutdown. Seeing you up close, far away, as we learned telepathy together via Zoom. Delivering my first-place Billings sermon on Virginia Woolf and miraculous music. Getting some of you out into the ocean and on top of waves with me. Favorite Class or Professor God . . . How can I name just one? Everyone writing through crisis with me in "Finding Beauty in a Broken World," taught by Terry Tempest Williams; the ecstatic reading I did in "Religion & Virginia Woolf" and "Teresa of Avila," both taught by Professor Stephanie Paulsell; "The Conduct of Life" lecture led by Professors Cornel West and Roberto Unger; "Quests for Wisdom," another great lecture tag-teamed by Professors Stephanie Paulsell, Davíd Carrasco, Michael Puett, and Arthur Kleinman; making music in quarantine with others in the Songwrighter’s Apothecary Lab led by Professor esperanza spalding; Laurie Anderson’s Norton Lectures; learning how to write a screenplay with Professor Musa Syeed; getting acquainted with the early Christian mystics with Professor Charlie Stang; three years of reading and rereading the Upanisads, the Bhagavad Gita, and the Yoga Sutras with Professor Frank Clooney; accidentally landing myself in Pali and other Buddhist studies classes with Professors Beatrice Chrystall, Janet Gyatso, and HDS’s greatest storyteller, Charles Hallisey. What I Hope to Be Remembered By As the founder of the Harvard Divinity Surf Club. As Idgy Dean—the one-woman mystical rock opera and Renaissance Artist reborn after a plague. As a positively inspired, enthusiastic, and hopeful presence in the classrooms. As the person who taught you a way to meditate, move your body, salute the sun, enter the ocean, and listen to music. By my words. By my sermons. By my songs. Future Plans I am SUPER EXCITED to be delivering the Graduate English Address at Commencement!! Also, a week before I graduate—and under the Super Full Blood Moon Total Lunar Eclipse—I will be premiering a LIVE multimedia music performance in Harvard Divinity’s historic Williams Chapel. This show will chronicle the saga of surviving the coronavirus crisis via monastic music-making at Harvard University, and is part of my final thesis, ILLUMINATED / MANUSCRIPT: A Chronicle of Lightning Bolts. In the year to come, I hope to pitch this project for a book, produce it as a music record, and develop it further into a touring show. This summer, however, I mostly just want to rest, surf, practice yoga, and watch a lot of TV. I think I’m moving back to Brooklyn, but God only knows . . . I would like to host a retreat of some kind in early 2023 and further hone what I can offer as a spiritual teacher. In a few years, my dream is to open up a monastery/mixology bar called Teresa’s. And before I die, I want to “Charlie Chapl(a)in”––make a full-length film or tell-a-vision series that I write, direct, compose the music for and star in. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement