Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Cody Hooks, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Cody Hooks, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed The changes that have happened for me over these last three years (through the program and the pandemic) feel like those that happen to a riverbank during a big flood. It recreates the landscape in ways both dramatic and hardly noticeable. I’m glad to move with more ease and embody more gentleness these days. Memorable Moment It’s impossible to pick only one, but there has been a constellation of beautiful happenings around tarot, astrology, and rituals rooted in the Earth. Some of these were one-on-one conversations I don’t think I’ll ever forget, and others were big, collective experiments. Getting to do a tarot gathering in person, once right before the start of the pandemic lockdown and again at a recent Noon Service, are lovely and memorable bookends. Favorite Class or Professor I’m grateful to have learned from all the professors I had, but especially Professor Stephanie Paulsell for her wisdom about contemplative prayer and pilgrimage, and Professor Kimberley Patton for her classes on angels and ancient healing journeys—these experiences have helped me uncover and find so much beauty in the creative and imaginative aspects of my education. I also have to thank all my classmates in our "Decolonization and Buddhist Studies" class, and our advisor Dean Melissa Bartholomew. This co-created space brought forth some of my most resonant and transformative learning at HDS, and I can’t say enough how meaningful it was to do it in community with you all. Message of Thanks It’s overwhelming to think about the web of people who have made this journey possible and whose energy kept me going. There is not thanks enough for my partners Andrew and Michelle, our cats Yoda and Scully, and my chosen family, most especially Kass, Nathalie, Theo, Hannah MA, Becka, Hannah K, and Danielle. I’m grateful to my dear friends at HDS—especially Lóre, Katie, Eva, Prince, Diana, and Heather—beyond all words. I’m grateful to all the teachers, bosses, editors, colleagues, and comrades who supported me along the way, and for all of the queer elders who have gifted me the treasure of their insight and friendship. And I’m grateful for several dear humans who have died over the past few years and whose memories keep me dedicated to living a life of transformation, healing, justice, and bliss: for myself and for all of us. What I Hope to Be Remembered By I would love to be remembered for making a little more space and breathing room for the weirder dimensions of our spiritualities, which are, incidentally, the most luminous. And for being one of the most loving cat dads. Future Plans In the next few years, I’ll be doing more chaplaincy training, publishing a deck of contemplative oracle cards, and hopefully returning to the Southwest. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement