Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS & EVENTS / Commencement Harvard Divinity School and Harvard University look forward to welcoming our degree candidates from the class of 2022 in celebrating their graduation on Thursday, May 26, 2022. At this time, and as long as conditions safely allow, our expectation is to host this celebration in person. Harvard University will celebrate the classes of 2020 and 2021 in person on Sunday, May 29, 2022, at 8 am, in Tercentenary Theatre. The full schedule of activities is still being developed and more details will follow. HDS and Harvard Graduation Events Schedule Monday, May 23, 2022 Harvard AAPI/APIDA Graduation Ceremony 7-9 pm; Tercentenary Theater This ceremony is open to all who identify with the Asian, Asian American, Desi-American, and Pacific Islander community. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Harvard FirstGen/Next Gen Graduation 9:30-11:30 am in Memorial Church (Harvard Yard) The First Gen/Next Gen (FGLI+) Graduation Ceremony is a pre-commencement celebration open to all students and acknowledges graduates who identify as a member of the Next Gen community. Harvard Lavender Graduation Ceremony 1-3 pm; Harvard Divinity School Campus Green Lavender Graduation is a celebration that recognizes LGBTQIS+ students and their allies for academic achievements and contributions to the Harvard community. Harvard Black Graduation Ceremony 3:30-5:30 pm; Sanders Theatre, Memorial Hall The Harvard Black Graduation will honor the academic achievements of Black Harvard graduating students and their families. Harvard Latinx Graduation Ceremony 7-9 pm; Sanders Theatre, Memorial Hall The Latinx Graduation is a stole ceremony that focuses not only on the achievements of students but also on those who helped students get to and graduate from Harvard. Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Harambee Graduation 2022: A Celebration of Black Excellence 10 am; Braun Room, Swartz Hall Join Harambee at HDS as they celebrate the accomplishments of their graduating members with their families, fellow students, faculty, and guests. Multireligious Commencement Service for the Class of 2022 3:30 pm in Memorial Church (Harvard Yard) Family and friends are welcome. Tickets are not required. The faculty speaker will be Stephanie Paulsell, Susan Shallcross Swartz Professor of the Practice of Christian Studies. (Live stream available on the HDS YouTube channel.) *Graduates should plan to arrive to Memorial Church at 3 pm and wear your commencement robe, but not your hood or mortarboard Class of 2022 Photo 5 pm on the Memorial Church stairs Following the Multireligious Commencement Service for the Class of 2022, a class photograph will be taken on the steps of the Memorial Church or, if it is raining, at the front of the building by the chancel. Information on how to purchase a copy of this photo will be sent to you by GradImages. You may also contact them at 800.424.3686. Commencement Reception 5-6:30 pm, Tent, HDS Campus Green Following the class photo, refreshments will be served from 5 to 6:30pm under the tent on the HDS Campus Green, located between Harvard Divinity School Library and Swartz Hall, for graduating students and their families and for HDS faculty and staff. All are welcome to attend; tickets are not required. Thursday, May 26, 2022 Dean's Breakfast for Graduating Students (Times may change slightly) 6:45–7:20 am, HDS Campus Green HDS graduates should come to the tent on the HDS Campus Green no later than 7am on Commencement morning. 6:45 am: Dean's Breakfast for Graduating Students 7 am: The class marshals will assist the graduates in forming a procession with HDS faculty, which will leave the HDS Campus Green at 7:30 am. The students elected to serve as class marshals are jess young chang, Maya James, and Mary Perez. 7:50 am: The HDS student procession will gather in the Sever Quadrangle. The Commencement Office has requested that graduates not go directly to the Sever Quadrangle individually. From Sever, graduates will proceed to the Tercentenary Theatre for the Morning Exercises. Please bring your Harvard ID, which will be required for you to gain access to Harvard Yard. Graduating students are strongly encouraged not to bring any bags, coats, or other items, or to leave them with one of their guests, as storage space will not be available at HDS, Tercentenary Theatre, or Memorial Church during Commencement activities. Harvard University Commencement Morning Exercises 9:30 am, Tercentenary Theatre, tickets required (Gates open at 6:45 am for families and guests) After the meeting is called to order, the student orators deliver speeches. The Provost and Deans introduce the candidates and the president will confer the degrees. The Commencement Speaker, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand will deliver the Commencement Address. The meeting is adjourned following the benediction. The University Band and University Choir perform throughout the Exercises. Guests will need a ticket to enter the yard for the morning exercises at 9:30 am. Graduates receive two tickets for the morning exercises. The morning ceremony will also be available via webcast in the Sperry Room. We strongly encourage families and guests to view the morning exercises in the Sperry Room due to its comfort, space, and proximity to the Diploma Awarding Ceremony. Following the morning exercises those attending the HDS ceremony should proceed to the HDS Campus Green. Diploma Awarding Ceremony 1 pm, HDS Campus Green, tickets NOT required The student speaker will be MDiv candidate jess young chang. Guests are welcome to be seated for the HDS Diploma Ceremony beginning at 12:30 pm. The Ceremony will take place in the tent on the HDS Campus Green. Seating is on a first-come, first-served basis, as seating is limited. We ask that guests move all the way into the rows to allow as many of our family and friends that are in attendance to have seating. (Live stream available on the HDS YouTube channel.) Graduates should proceed directly to the HDS Campus following the morning exercises and should arrive no later than 12:15 pm. Upon arrival on the Campus please proceed directly to the James Room, Swartz Hall 120/122. Commencement Luncheon 2 pm, Swartz Lawn, tickets required The Commencement Luncheon is held from 2 to 3:30 pm on Swartz Lawn, located on Francis Ave directly in front of Swartz Hall. Tickets are required for the Commencement Luncheon. A reminder that ALL are welcome to come to the tent on the Swartz Lawn, but you must have a ticket to get a lunch. Should you prefer to have lunch at a restaurant in Harvard Square or Cambridge, please make your reservations as early as possible! Read more about restaurants in Harvard Square. Harvard University Native American Program Indigenous Graduation 5 pm; Sheraton Commander Hotel The Harvard Harvard University Native American Program Indigenous Graduation ceremony will take place on May 26. Sunday, May 29, 2022 Harvard University Commencement Morning Exercises 8 am, Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard, ticket required (Gates open at 6:30 am for families and guests) Commencement will honor all University-wide graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 and will feature all the pomp and circumstance of a traditional Harvard Commencement, including an address from the principal speaker, U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland, AB ’74, JD ’77. This event is for graduates and guests. Graduates will process and will sit separately from their guests. Each graduate can request up to three guest tickets for this event. The program will also be livestreamed at harvard.edu/live. Tours of Swartz Hall and HDS Campus 10:30 am, HDS Campus Green, tickets NOT required After the morning exercises, there will also be an opportunity for self-guided tours of Swartz Hall, graduate photos, and casual connection with fellow classmates. HDS Graduate Recognition Ceremony 12 pm, HDS Campus Green, tickets NOT required. The graduate speakers will be Ashley Lipscomb, MDiv ’20, Anna Del Castillo, MDiv ’21, Eboni Nash, MTS ’21, and Kayla Smith, MDiv ’21. The ceremony will feature remarks from the Dean, the reading of 2020 and 2021 graduate names, and the presentation of a special gift. You will be able to view the live stream on the HDS YouTube channel. Graduates should proceed to the HDS Campus following the morning exercises and should arrive in the James Room, Swartz Hall 120/122, no later than 11:30 am. Commencement Luncheon 1 pm, Swartz Lawn, tickets required The Commencement Luncheon is held from 1 to 2:30 pm on Swartz Lawn, located on Francis Ave directly in front of Swartz Hall. Tickets are required for the Commencement Luncheon. A reminder that ALL are welcome to come to the tent on the Swartz Lawn, but you must have a ticket to get lunch. For more information, including answers to many frequently asked questions, please visit the Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 website. News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement 2022 Graduate Student Profiles HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics 907912572e3e21b6faf38fd03f48cc0f Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement