Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Alex Baskin, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Alex Baskin, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Message of Thanks Thank you to Professor Charlie Hallisey for teaching me how to read and for letting me play. Thank you to Professor Saul Zaritt (FAS) for teaching me a way to be Jewish that I knew but didn’t know I knew. Thank you to Professor Courtney Goto (BU) for demonstrating that play and playfulness can be legitimate objects of theological inquiry. Thank you to Professor Mark Jordan and Professor Josh Bell (FAS) for encouraging my writing and especially for giving me so much permission to write in my own voice. Thank you to my CPE Educator Rev. Nancy Wood for teaching me how to walk into a stranger’s hospital room and introduce myself. Thank you to my family for their support. Thank you to Sara Klugman for everything. Thank you to the Buddha and to the centuries of people stewarding and innovating Buddhist traditions for giving me a chance at life. Thank you to Rowan Van Ness and Caitlyn Tengwall for inviting me on the adventure of a lifetime. Thank you to Alexa Klein-Mayer for deep collaboration, relational heroics, and joyful edge-work. Thank you to so many wonderful friends. I’m hesitant to name names as I’m sure I’ll leave dear people out. But if you let me be close to you, know that I appreciated all you taught me. I was not expecting to like the people here. Honestly, when I decided to come to div school it had not really occurred to me that there would be other people here. Anyway, I’m glad there were. Future Plans Oh god, Oh mystery, Oh universe: May there be a future. May I have the time and space to write poems. May I keep playing. May I love well and listen well and go outside a lot. May the practices of my life support me and serve as a benefit for all beings. In the fall, I’ll be starting my CPE Residency at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement