Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 118b871e8b22851de8687778edd4a521 Faculty & Research HOME / Faculty & Research Harvard University’s Faculty of Divinity are among the most distinguished scholars of religion and practitioners of ministry in the world. Experts in a wide range of disciplines and religious traditions, they teach and mentor students and perform vital, creative research to advance religious insight and scholarship. Visit Harvard Divinity School Admissions & Aid Faculty Directory Research professors and emeriti, visiting faculty, and others offering instruction at HDS. Faculty of Divinity Research Professors and Emeriti Visiting Faculty Others Offering Instruction All Faculty and Instructors Faculty of Divinity Meet our world-class teachers and scholars. View all faculty of Divinty Faculty Experts These members of the Harvard Divinity School faculty welcome inquiries from reporters and editors concerning their fields of interest and areas of expertise. Find a faculty expert Faculty Openings View current faculty searches. View Current Openings I love my students. The great joy I have of being at Harvard Divinity School is teaching and being with them. They are my teachers. — Terry Tempest Williams, Writer-in-Residence Research Programs and Centers Harvard Divinity School’s dedicated centers and programs advance critical subjects in religious literacy, international study, women and religion, and other areas. Events and campus speakers bring worldwide insight to Harvard. Center for the Study of World Religions (CSWR) Examines the historical and contemporary interrelationships among religions, and the theological, philosophical, comparative, political, and ethical challenges facing religious communities and those who study them today. More about the CSWR Women’s Studies in Religion Program (WSRP) Explores the fundamental role played by religious traditions in defining roles for women and men. Research on religion and gender sheds light on questions about the changing roles of women both inside religious communities and in broader public spheres. More about the WSRP Program for the Evolution of Spirituality (PES) Supports the scholarly study of emerging spiritual movements, marginalized spiritualities, and the innovative edges of established religious traditions. It also prepares students for ministry in these movements. More about the PES Religion in Public Life (RPL) Provides an umbrella for programs and scholarship across Harvard that explore the ways that religion is entwined with social, political, and economic dimensions of human experience and institutions. More about RPL Pluralism Project Documents the contours of our multireligious society, exploring new forms of interfaith engagement, studying the impact of religious diversity in civic life, and contextualizing these findings within a global framework. More about the Pluralism Project Research Appointments and Affiliations Several administrative units within Harvard Divinity School offer research appointments and affiliations, including the Office of Academic Affairs in cooperation with the associate dean for faculty and academic affairs, the HDS dean, and members of the Harvard Divinity School faculty; the Center for the Study of World Religions; HDS Religion and Public Life; and the Women's Studies in Religion Program. Learn more about research opportunities at HDS: HDS Visiting Scholars Yang Visiting Scholars in World Christianity CSWR Visiting Scholars HDS Postdoctoral Fellows WSRP Research Associates RPL Fellows Publications Harvard Divinity Bulletin aims to provide a nonsectarian review of religion, attentive to contemporary realities, that has appeal both within and beyond the academy. The magazine is received by 10,000 people around the world, including Harvard Divinity School alumni, staff, faculty, and students, and members of the general public. In 2013, it was recognized as the Religion Newswriters Association's magazine of the year. Visit Bulletin Site Harvard Theological Review, a quarterly published by Harvard Divinity School, began publication in 1908 and is one of the oldest scholarly theological journals in the United States. It publishes articles on the history and philosophy of religious thought in all traditions and periods, including Hebrew Bible, New Testament, Christianity, Jewish Studies, theology, ethics, archaeology, and comparative religious studies. Learn more about HTR Peripheries: A Journal of Word and Image is a collection of visual art, fiction, translation, and creative nonfiction, from both the Harvard community and writers and artists across the world. These artists contribute to a conversation that explores how creative practice relates to spiritual practice, in all religious and secular traditions.The journal also seeks to support new artists or those on the margins of traditional literary circles. Visit Peripheries Site HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement