Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search 51b34922902187aaf40a55fc07d2e753 Connect with Admissions HOME / ADMISSIONS & AID / Connect with Admissions Would you like to learn more about the Harvard Divinity School experience? You can attend one of our events, connect with a current HDS student, read our student blog, or contact someone in the Admissions office to find out more about life at HDS. Admissions Events Events for fall 2021 have concluded. Recordings of our virtual events can be found linked below. Admissions Events Admissions Connect Please complete the HDS Admissions Connect form to join our mailing list for further information about HDS Admissions programs and events. HDS Admissions Connect Form From the Student Blog Our Student Blog offers candid reflections from current Harvard Divinity School students on topics like diversity, faculty access, courses, and what it’s like to study in a pluralistic environment. Visit the HDS Student Blog Ask A Student Program Our Ask a Student program allows you to connect directly with a current HDS student. You can communicate with students who share your academic interests or career goals, come from your home state or city, share your faith background, or can help with your questions about housing or finding an on-campus job. Email ask_students@hds.harvard.edu to connect with a current student. Admissions Tips on Instagram For helpful hints on the HDS admissions process, check out our "Admissions Tips" highlight on the HDS Instagram and be sure to follow us @HarvardDivinity. Contact Admissions Swartz Hall, G33 Mailing address Harvard Divinity School Office of Admissions 45 Francis Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Hours (academic year) Monday–Friday, 9 am–5 pm Phone 617.495.5796 Email admissions@hds.harvard.edu Need More Information? Please complete our HDS Admissions Connect form to join our mailing list for more information about programs and events. If you would like to speak directly with an HDS admissions representative, please sign up for a one-on-one appointment. For questions about the PhD program in the study of religion, please contact the Committee on the Study of Religion at csrel@fas.harvard.edu or 617.495.5781. Admissions and Aid Staff Alessandra Luedeking Admissions Officer Swartz G33 admissions@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.5796 Margaret Okada-Scheck Associate Director of Admissions Swartz G33 admissions@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.5796 John Rzasa Staff Assistant, Office of Admissions Swartz G33 admissions@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.5796 Odeviz Soto Director of Admissions Swartz G33 admissions@hds.harvard.edu p: 617.495.5796 HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement