Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Muhammad Souman Elah, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 Muhammad Souman Elah, MTS '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I think after having met so many interesting people at HDS coming from diverse backgrounds, I have become more empathetic. Memorable Moment HDS Muslims gatherings, weekly halaqas, chai nights, and hence spending time with some amazing people who came from diverse backgrounds and were remarkably passionate about doing interesting things. Favorite Class or Professor 1. "Islam and Religious Diversity" with Professor Boylston. 2. "Major Works of Islamic Civilizations" with Professor Khaled El-Rouayheb. 3. "What is Lived Islam" with Professor Teren Sevea. Message of Thanks I would like to thank all the professors, mentors (PhD students), colleagues, and each and everyone I met because I have definitely learned a lot from all of them. I think Harvard PhD students were a great inspiration for me such as Mafaz, Shaharyar, Abtsam, Iesa, and many others. What I Hope to Be Remembered By I know my friends will not forget about my silly jokes. :) Future Plans I will be starting my PhD in Islamic Studies from UCLA in the fall, InshaAllah. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement