Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Nadia Milad Issa, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 Nadia Milad Issa, MTS '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I have grown to become more precise and deepened in my research work! Memorable Moment My most memorable moment at the Harvard Divinity School was when my submission, “La misión era sólo rogar por una sanación para el planeta”: Social Media and Reparative Mobilizations in Regla de Ocha-Ifá during COVID- 19: An Interview Series With Emilio Hernández González, Frank Bell, and Oludaré" was featured in the Graduate Journal of Harvard Divinity School of Spring 2020 (Special Edition) before starting the first semester of my MTS degree program! This particular moment affirmed the power of the loving art and spirit-led work I co-cultivate and am in community with! Favorite Class or Professor My favorite professor is Dr. Todne Thomas. I have taken three of Dr. Thomas's courses, and her brilliance moves me in every single class meeting. As a dancer and ethnographer, Dr. Thomas has trained me to continue to carry out the research and art-making that I do with an ethic of safety, love, care, joy, clarity, and responsibility. Message of Thanks I have the honor to extend my profound gratitude and love for the following community members who have conjured this journey alongside me and continue to shape and support me: Modupué ("thank you" in Yoruba) Egún ("thank you, ancestors" in Yoruba). Modupué Mi Cuadro Espiritual. Modupué Orishas. Modupué Lwas. Modupué mi Ilé (Ilé Yemayá). Modupué Dara Bayer and Sistercircle/Siblingcircle for your kinship/siblinghood. Modupué Christopher Tinson and his course "African Americans and The Politics of Reparations" at Hampshire College 2015 for changing my life and called for my life-long commitment to my work and mobilization of spiritual reparations. Modupué John Murillo, Roosbelinda Cárdenas, Deborah Goffe, Amy Jordan, and Dasha Chapman for serving on my Division III Committee at Hampshire College, holding my studies, projects, and undergraduate thesis that continues to grow and will deepen for years to come. Modupué to my Degree Advisor, Dr. Jacob K. Olupona, who has shown up for me and tirelessly trusts my work. Modupué to my Thesis Advisor, Dr. Teren Sevea, who has also shown up for me and gifting me time, capacity, feedback, and defense, and affirms my work and the spirits I take seriously. Modupué Dr. Mayra Rivera, and your course "Coloniality, Race, Catastrophe" for being pivotal for my thesis and dissertation work. It has changed me, and has led me to love my communities harder. Modupué Dr. Todne Thomas, for your brilliance, conciseness, training, and guidance. I see clearer because of you! What I Hope to Be Remembered By I hope to be remembered by love, care, my ancestral and present lineage, and that dance is artivism! Future Plans I will be starting my PhD program in the Department of Religious Studies at The University of Texas at Austin fall 2022! See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement