Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Nickolas Jacoby Wrobleski, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 Nickolas Jacoby Wrobleski, MTS '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed Since I started at HDS, my passion for the fight for human rights has increased so much. I came to this program prepared to learn, and I’m leaving prepared to rise by lifting others. Memorable Moment A memory I’ll definitely be taking with me comes from the open house for the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging where we shared some poetry, including my favorite work by Langston Hughes: “O, let America be America again— The land that never has been yet— And yet must be—the land where every man is free.” Favorite Class or Professor I thoroughly enjoyed every class from my two years at HDS, but I think I have to speak about Professor Tim McCarthy here. His class "Queer Nation" presented a well-researched and engaging account of queer history in the United States. It was the first time in 22 years I felt I could see that part of my identity—queerness—properly represented in higher academia. I want to thank Professor McCarthy for helping to feed our creative fires of resistance, and I look forward to keeping up with his work in the coming years. Message of Thanks So many people have helped me get to where I am. I’d like to thank Dean Melissa Wood Bartholomew, Amy Marks, Steph Gauchel and the HDS DIB team for showing what a positive work culture should look like. Thank you to all the professors I had the pleasure of learning from over the past two years. Finally, the biggest thank you to my wonderful mother and the real star of the show, my service dog, Nutmeg. What I Hope to Be Remembered By The most memorable thing about me is probably my lovely dog, Nutmeg, and I’m perfectly fine with that. Future Plans I plan to return the the South to keep fighting for justice in the footsteps of activists like Stacey Abrams. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement