Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Student Activities and Interviews Photos: Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 June 1, 2022 Graduates from the three most recent classes were celebrated by Harvard Divinity School and Harvard University... Read more about Photos: Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 Graduate Profile: Bilal Rehman, MTS '22 May 27, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed My peers at HDS challenged me to be a better person and to live more fully. In delicate moments, I've learned to love carrying my and others' complexities. Within community, I've learned how we can ask more of each other out of love for each other, and grapple with the limits of the institution... Read more about Graduate Profile: Bilal Rehman, MTS '22 In Exile We Become Prophets May 26, 2022 At morning exercises in Harvard Yard on May 26, 2022, graduating MDiv student Lindsay Sanwald spoke on behalf of Harvard graduate students on recognizing our ancestors and being great visionaries.... Read more about In Exile We Become Prophets Maggie Rogers on Creating Intention, Connection through Music at Harvard Divinity May 26, 2022 The songwriter, producer, and performer will earn a Master of Religion and Public Life degree... Read more about Maggie Rogers on Creating Intention, Connection through Music at Harvard Divinity Rest, Grow, and Love May 26, 2022 jessica young chang, MDiv '22, was selected by a panel of students, staff, and faculty as the class speaker for HDS Commencement 2022. Each year, the addresses of all of the finalists are published in the HDS Commencement Bulletin. The following remarks were delivered by chang at the Diploma Awarding Ceremony on May 26.... Read more about Rest, Grow, and Love The Student Commencement Speakers May 24, 2022 “I’m very excited to go back to where I started and to do all the things I was already doing, but just do them with more wisdom, more knowledge, more practice," says Lindsay Sanwald, MDiv '22, who will deliver the graduate student address at Harvard University's Commencement. Graduate Profile: Noor Idris Traina, MTS '22 May 24, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed There are two important ways in which HDS has transformed me. For those in my degree program who are graduating this May, our first year was remote. I had the unique experience of pursuing my Harvard degree from my small village of Ibad in Misrata, Libya. At the time, I was... Read more about Graduate Profile: Noor Idris Traina, MTS '22 Taking Lessons from Epic, Everyday May 23, 2022 In her graduate student address during Harvard University's Commencement exercises, Lindsay Sanwald, MDiv '22, plans to call on people to rejoice at being together while urging them to acknowledge the devastation caused by the pandemic, to “marvel at the mystery of life” while accepting the “rawness and messiness of the human experience.” Graduate Student Profile: Saqib T. Qureshi, MTS '22 May 17, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed To attend a divinity school like HDS is a very unique and fortunate experience. Putting together a cohort of individuals from all walks of life, as well as many diverse religious and non-religious traditions, giving them a space to be in communion – interacting with each other, speaking... Read more about Graduate Student Profile: Saqib T. Qureshi, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: ZeSean Ali, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future.... Read more about Graduate Profile: ZeSean Ali, MTS '22 Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … » last All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement