Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Alejandra Salemi, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 Alejandra Salemi, MTS '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment Starting this program in fall 2020 during Zoom school was so incredibly challenging. But even still, during the past two years, both remotely and then eventually in person, getting to be in classroom settings and in conversations with colleagues and classmates has always carried a bit of magic. Jumping into divinity school having never formally studied religion was such a huge challenge, but every semester it was really special to be surrounded by other students who provided so much perspective and passion. Taking a class with Cornel West, attending lectures and special events with incredible scholars across a wide range of fields, and getting to meet other classmates who work so fearlessly to voice their passions and perspective has been incredible. HDS also allowed me to get inside the greater Harvard network and allowed me to find a research position at the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights, which has been the most impactful campus job I have ever had. Message of Thanks I would like to thank my family for the love and support they have offered me over the past two years and through my journey in higher education. Mostly, I would like to thank my mom who has taught me that education is one of the most precious things we can pursue. To my best friend, Jesus, your love and partnership over the past year and a half has been one of my greatest sources of joy, and I am so excited where life will take us together. To my chosen family in Cambridge, Kaum, Amanda, Anca, and the other friends in the proctor community that have made my time on campus so fun. To my soul sisters, Lesedi and Anna, women who have encouraged me and uplifted me while teaching me so much about myself and the most sacred parts of life. Thank you to Drs. Natalia Linos, David R. William and Gloria White-Hammond for your mentorship and guidance in the exploration of scholarship and curiosity of the intersection of religion and public health. And lastly, to the Florida Conference of the United Methodist Church, your support and belief in me during this journey made it possible for me to explore and grow as a person and as a scholar. Future Plans I will be starting a doctoral program at Duke University in population health sciences. I am excited to continue exploring passions that started here at HDS and expand my understanding of the intersection of public health and religion, and of how religion is a social determinant of public health. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement