Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Anne Stetson, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I’m a little kinder and my first response to a problem is to foreground spirit, then intellect—a much better order of things! Memorable Moment My most memorable moment at HDS was the lightbulb that went off through learning from Terry Tempest Williams. She taught me that the “I” matters as much as the “eye” in writing. Favorite Class or Professor My faculty advisor Matthew Potts provided sustained inspiration and guidance. His course "Forgiveness" was my favorite at HDS—an important topic to one who would be a peacemaker in small things and large, and robustly multidisciplinary. Message of Thanks In addition to Matt Potts, I owe a great deal to Dan McKanan for opening me out to ways of thinking about the intersection of theological commitment and care for the natural world beyond my faith tradition. What I Hope to Be Remembered By Having launched the HDS Eco-Theology Fellowship. Over to you, Class of 2023!! Future Plans I plan to return to my advisory work on global health, environment, and human rights but now with an emphasis on the spiritual transformation necessary to address contemporary crises. I also plan to train as a spiritual director in the Episcopal tradition and seek chaplaincy certification. And maybe someday I’ll finish my book on Wyoming . . . See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement