Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ACADEMICS / PROFESSIONAL AND LIFELONG LEARNING / Making Change 2022 Faculty Myozen Joan Amaral is the founder and guiding teacher of the Zen Center North Shore in Beverly, Massachusetts. She moved to the Boston area in 2012 from the San Francisco Zen Center to serve as guiding teacher for the Marblehead Zen Center. In 2014, the Zen Center relocated to Beverly and in 2016 changed its name to Zen Center North Shore. Amaral is a dharma heir of Zenkei Blanche Hartman in the lineage of Shunryu Suzuki, Roshi. Her interest in zazen grew out of her background in modern dance, and she continues to be interested in the ways that movement and the cultivation of energy can support the practice of stillness. Amaral trained at Tassajara Zen Mountain Monastery for six years. She is a graduate of Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. She also completed the chaplaincy program at the Sati Center in Redwood City, California, where she studied with Gil Fronsdal, Paul Haller, and Jennifer Block. John P. Brown is the 2021–22 Practitioner in Residence in Religion, Business Ethics, and the Economic Order at Harvard Divinity School. He is an experienced management practitioner and executive with a background in strategic analysis, strategic planning, and management. Brown’s leadership roles have included senior executive positions with companies transitioning from private to public ownership as well as co-founder of strategic management consulting firm The Setzer Group. He has also served as a consultant to corporate management, nonprofits, and boards of directors on issues involving governance, strategic positioning, and executive leadership transitioning. Brown holds a BA from Morehouse College, an MBA from Harvard Business School, and an MDiv from Harvard Divinity School.  Charles Hallisey is the Yehan Numata Senior Lecturer on Buddhist Literatures at Harvard Divinity School. He has taught at Harvard Divinity School since 2007. Hallisey’s research centers on Theravada Buddhism in Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia, Pali language and literature, Buddhist ethics, and literature in Buddhist culture. He has taught at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Loyola University in Chicago, and Harvard University. His most recent book is Sensitive Reading: The Pleasures of South Asian Literature in Translation, co-edited with Yigal Bronner. He is also the translator of Therigatha: Poems of the First Buddhist Women. Hallisey holds an AB from Colgate University, MDiv from Harvard Divinity School, AM from University of Pennsylvania, and PhD from University of Chicago.  David N. Hempton is the Alonzo L. McDonald Family Professor of Evangelical Theological Studies, John Lord O’Brian Professor of Divinity, and Dean of Harvard Divinity School. He has taught at Harvard since 2007. Hempton has published over a hundred articles and book chapters, and many books, with research interests spanning religion and political culture, religious identities and conflicts, the interdisciplinary study of lived religion, the history and theology of Evangelical Protestantism and Pentecostalism, and secularization and disenchantment. He is a former chairman of the Wiles Trust and has held fellowships from the Wolfson and Nuffield Foundations and the National Endowment of the Humanities. Hempton holds a BA from Queen’s University (Belfast) and a PhD from University of St. Andrews. Kerry Maloney has served Harvard Divinity School since 2004, first as the associate director of ministry studies and then as chaplain and director of the Office of Religious and Spiritual Life. She has more than 20 years of chaplaincy experience. She served at both the College at Bates College and Boston College, during which time she worked to expand multireligious life on campus; extend commitments to peace, justice, and public service; organize initiatives on the intersection of intellectual and spiritual formation; oversee retreats; and develop university-wide projects on urban social change, service learning, and contemplative practices, as well as women, gender, and religion. Maloney is an ordained clergyperson in the United Church of Christ and a licensed social worker. Maloney holds a BA from Boston College and a MDiv from Boston University.  Bernadette Hickman-Maynard is pastor of Bethel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church in Lynn, Massachusetts. Previously, she served as co-pastor of Bethel AME Church in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and as associate pastor of Peoples AME Church in Chelsea, Massachusetts. Her longstanding passion for community and economic development, along with social justice, includes working with the Charles Street AME Roxbury Renaissance Center and serving on the boards of The Council of Churches of Greater Bridgeport and Congregations Organized for a New Connecticut (CONNECT). “Rev. Bernadette,” as she is known by her congregation, defines her purpose in life as generating “wholeness and liberation” for others, particularly her family and community. She holds an AB, MEd, and MDiv from Harvard University. Theodore “Teddy” Hickman-Maynard started as HDS’s associate dean for ministry studies in 2021. He has more than 20 years of ministry experience, serving in roles including senior pastor, youth pastor, minister to men, and minister of worship. Currently, he is an associate minister at Bethel AME Church in Lynn, Massachusetts. Hickman-Maynard was associate dean for student and community life and assistant professor of Black Church Studies at Boston University School of Theology, where he taught courses on social justice, church renewal, and practices of ministry in the Black Church tradition. At Boston University, he also served as a co-investigator on two research projects: “Creative Callings” and “Trauma-Responsive Congregations.” Hickman-Maynard holds an AB from Harvard College and a MDiv and PhD from Boston University. Karen King has taught at Harvard Divinity School since 1997. She was the Winn Professor of Ecclesiastical History from 2003 to 2009, and in 2009, she became the first woman appointed as the Hollis Professor of Divinity, the oldest endowed chair in the United States (1721). King teaches and researches the history of Christianity, with particular interest in discourses of normativity (orthodoxy and heresy), gender studies, and religion and violence. Her books include The Secret Revelation of John; The Gospel of Mary of Magdala: Jesus and the First Woman Apostle; and What Is Gnosticism? She has received multiple awards for excellence in teaching and research, as well as grants from the Luce Foundation, Ford Foundation, National Endowment for the Humanities, Deutsche Akademische Austauschdienst, and Graves Foundation. King holds a BA from the University of Montana and a PhD from Brown University. Matthew Ichihashi Potts is the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals and Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church of Harvard University. He has taught at Harvard Divinity School since 2013. Potts’s research interests include the thought and practice of Christian communities, contemporary Anglican theology, constructive theology from Asian and Asian-American sources, homiletics, theories of narrative and writing, and interpretations of Christian ethical and sacramental practices that employ literature, literary theory, and Christian theology. His first book is Cormac McCarthy and the Signs of Sacrament: Literature, Theology, and the Moral of Stories. His second book, Forgiveness: On Accountability and Atonement, is forthcoming from Yale University Press. Potts served as an officer in the United States Navy and as a college administrator before being ordained a priest in the Episcopal Church. Potts holds a BA from the University of Notre Dame, MDiv from Harvard Divinity School, and PhD from Harvard University.  Jeffrey Seul has served as Lecturer on the Practice of Peace at Harvard Divinity School since 2016. He also serves as co-chair of the Peace Appeal Foundation and is a partner in the international law firm Holland & Knight. Seul previously taught at Harvard Law School, where he developed Harvard's first course on complex multiparty negotiations. He is a former senior associate of the Program on International Conflict Analysis and Resolution at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs. Seul’s scholarship focuses on religion and peacebuilding, particularly the role of identity dynamics in violent conflict involving religious groups, approaches to transformation of conflicts with a religious dimension, and possibilities for consensual resolution of legal disputes involving deeply held moral values. He is also a Zen teacher. Seul received his undergraduate education from Regis University. He holds a JD from University of Colorado, MTS from Harvard Divinity School, and LLM from Harvard Law School.  David Shulman is the Renee Lang Professor of Humanistic Studies Emeritus at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. A noted scholar of Indian Studies, he has authored or co-authored more than 20 books on various subjects ranging from temple myths and temple poems to essays that cover the wide spectrum of the cultural history of South India. Shulman was awarded the Israel Prize for Religious Studies in 2016 for his academic work on the literatures, religions, and cultures of South Asia. Shulman is a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities as well as the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Shulman has also written about his experiences as an activist working for peace and equal dignity in Israel and Palestine in two books, Dark Hope: Working for Peace in Israel and Palestine (2007) and Freedom and Despair: Notes from the South Hebron Hills (2018). Shulman holds a PhD from the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London. Angie Thurston is co-founder and principal of Sacred Design Lab, a research and development lab devoted to understanding and designing for twenty-first-century spiritual wellbeing. She has worked closely with dozens of leaders to support them in connecting the inner life of spirit to the outer life of action for social change. Passionate about reversing the trend of spiritual isolation, Thurston co-created the Formation Project, a startup designed for shared spiritual deepening among people who don’t live in the same place or share a set of religious beliefs. Her co-authored paper, “How We Gather,” has become a defining work on millennial community in America, referenced by CEOs and religious leaders alike. Thurston was a Ministry Innovation Fellow at Harvard Divinity School from 2016–21. Her work has been featured in The New York Times and on NPR. Thurston holds a BA from Brown University and a MDiv from Harvard Divinity School. She lives in Alexandria, Virginia, with her husband and their son.  Laura Tuach is the assistant dean for ministry studies and field education and is an Instructor on Ministry at Harvard Divinity School. She is an ordained United Church of Christ minister and an affiliate minister in the Memorial Church of Harvard University and the First Congregational Church, Cambridge, UCC. Additionally, she serves as a spiritual guide and coach in private practice. Her teaching expertise is in the areas of meaning making, spiritual leadership and growth, and innovation. In her ministry, she seeks to help others discern how to serve according to their highest ideals, ethics, values, and faith commitments. Laura holds a BA from St. Lawrence University and a MDiv from Harvard Divinity School.  Gloria E. White-Hammond is the co-pastor of Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Boston, Massachusetts. She served as a pediatrician for 27 years and was appointed Swartz Resident Practitioner in Ministry Studies in 2015 at Harvard Divinity School, where she develops learning opportunities at the intersection of medicine and spirituality. She also co-directs the Harvard Medical School and HDS course, “Medicine and Spirituality in Healing.” Her ministry of healing includes founding Do The Write Thing in 1994, which served over 200 high-risk girls in Boston public schools, juvenile detention facilities, and on-site at Bethel AME Church. From 2001 through 2003, White-Hammond traveled to war-torn South Sudan to participate in an elaborate “underground railroad” to facilitate the freedom of more than 10,000 people enslaved in northern Sudan. She holds an AB from Boston University, MD from Tufts University, and MDiv from Harvard University.  Special Guest Colum McCann is an Irish-born international bestselling author. He is among the world’s foremost storytellers, and his fiction has been published in thirty-five languages. His National Book Award-winning novel, Let the Great World Spin, was a bestseller on four continents and was recognized with major awards from eight nations. His follow-up novel, TransAtlantic, earned him comparisons to Michael Ondaatje and Toni Morrison. His newest novel, longlisted for both the Man Booker Prize and Carnegie Medal, is Apeirogon. It takes as its fulcrum the real-life story of two fathers—one Palestinian, one Israeli—who have both lost daughters to the conflict in the Holy Land, and whose friendship, extraordinary stories of loss, and joint work for reconciliation reverberate around the world. McCann is also cofounder of the global charity Narrative 4, which brings young people from around the globe together to “walk in one another’s shoes” and harness the power of story exchange to foster empathy. McCann’s writing has been published in The New Yorker, Esquire, The Paris Review, Granta, The Atlantic, GQ, Tin House, and The New York Times, among other publications. McCann speaks on the intersections of storytelling, self-discovery, social justice, and travel.  Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Making Change 2022 Faculty Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement