Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / ALUMNI & FRIENDS / Alumni Frequently Asked Questions Can I use the library? Alumni have complimentary access to the HDS Library and to ATLASerials®, an online collection of more than 70 major religion and theology journals. To gain access to the library and the ATLASerials® database, send an email to alums@hds.harvard.edu that includes your full name and degree year. After a member of the staff has verified that you are a graduate of the School, you will be sent login information to access the database. How can I stay connected with HDS? Update your contact information. The most important thing you can do to stay connected with HDS is to make sure we have your up-to-date contact information, particularly your preferred email address. Alumni and friends of HDS can update their address in the following ways: Alumni can log in to their alumni.harvard account and update their contact information through the online form. If you are a graduate of HDS and you would like an account or would like to access your existing account, please visit alumni.harvard.edu. Send an email to alums@hds.harvard.edu. Be sure to include your name, affiliation to HDS, and your new contact information. Call the HDS Office of Development and External Relations at 617.496.1778. Read alumni publications HDS alumni receive complimentary subscriptions to the HDS Current e-newsletter, the semi-annual Harvard Divinity Bulletin magazine, and Harvard Magazine. Follow HDS on social media Connect to HDS and fellow alumni through any one of our growing social networks. These include: Harvard Divinity School on Facebook Harvard Divinity School on Twitter The Harvard Divinity School Alumni group on LinkedIn The Harvard Divinity School photostream on Flickr The Harvard Divinity channel on YouTube Attend an event Alumni are welcome to attend all public HDS events and events sponsored by the Harvard Alumni Association. HDS also hosts regional and campus events for alumni. Share your work and your news Alumni are invited to submit previously unpublished essays, articles, or poetry to be considered for publication in Harvard Divinity Bulletin. HDS alumni are also encouraged to send their news for inclusion in HDS Current. Submit story ideas, news, alumni notes, or news about recent publications to alums@hds.harvard.edu. Alumni notes also can be submitted online through alumni.harvard.edu. Recently published a book? Email that information to us at alums@hds.harvard.edu. How do I make a gift to HDS? There are many ways to make a contribution to HDS. Detailed instructions on how to give by credit card, check, securities, and more can be found on the Harvard University giving website. If you would like to make a gift online now, you can do so by using our online giving form. How is my gift to HDS used? Gifts to the annual fund support the School's core needs. Learn more about what your gift supports from the Dean's Report. How may I get a copy of my transcript? Transcripts can be ordered through the National Student Clearinghouse secure website. Please see Transcripts and Degree Verification for more information. What is the difference between the HDS Alumni Association and the Harvard Alumni Association? They are the same! As a graduate of HDS, you are automatically a member of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA). This means that in addition to having access to HDS-specific programming and events, you can also access all the resources and programming that the HAA has to offer. What sort of career services does HDS offer alumni? Harvard Divinity School's Office of Career Services provides a variety of programs, tools, and services for alumni, including access to the Hired career management system. HDS alumni also have access to the Harvard Alumni Association's Career Resources service, a network of Harvard graduates committed to helping one another explore professional interests and career alternatives. Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean’s Report The Peter J. Gomes, STB ’68 Distinguished Alumni Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni Frequently Asked Questions HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement