Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS & EVENTS / All News Photos: Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 June 1, 2022 Graduates from the three most recent classes were celebrated by Harvard Divinity School and Harvard University... Read more about Photos: Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 Graduate Profile: Bilal Rehman, MTS '22 May 27, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed My peers at HDS challenged me to be a better person and to live more fully. In delicate moments, I've learned to love carrying my and others' complexities. Within community, I've learned how we can ask more of each other out of love for each other, and grapple with the limits of the institution... Read more about Graduate Profile: Bilal Rehman, MTS '22 Maggie Rogers on Creating Intention, Connection through Music at Harvard Divinity May 26, 2022 The songwriter, producer, and performer will earn a Master of Religion and Public Life degree... Read more about Maggie Rogers on Creating Intention, Connection through Music at Harvard Divinity In Exile We Become Prophets May 26, 2022 At morning exercises in Harvard Yard on May 26, 2022, graduating MDiv student Lindsay Sanwald spoke on behalf of Harvard graduate students on recognizing our ancestors and being great visionaries.... Read more about In Exile We Become Prophets Rest, Grow, and Love May 26, 2022 jessica young chang, MDiv '22, was selected by a panel of students, staff, and faculty as the class speaker for HDS Commencement 2022. Each year, the addresses of all of the finalists are published in the HDS Commencement Bulletin. The following remarks were delivered by chang at the Diploma Awarding Ceremony on May 26.... Read more about Rest, Grow, and Love Notable Moments from Harvard’s 2021-22 Academic Year May 26, 2022 Here are some of the highlights from the 2021-22 academic year at Harvard University and Harvard Divinity School. 'Creating from Fragments' May 25, 2022 Susan Shallcross Swartz Professor of the Practice of Christian Studies Stephanie Paulsell was the faculty speaker during the Multireligious Commencement Service on May 25, 2022. The following remarks were delivered by Paulsell during the service at Memorial Church.... Read more about 'Creating from Fragments' The Student Commencement Speakers May 24, 2022 “I’m very excited to go back to where I started and to do all the things I was already doing, but just do them with more wisdom, more knowledge, more practice," says Lindsay Sanwald, MDiv '22, who will deliver the graduate student address at Harvard University's Commencement. Graduate Profile: Noor Idris Traina, MTS '22 May 24, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed There are two important ways in which HDS has transformed me. For those in my degree program who are graduating this May, our first year was remote. I had the unique experience of pursuing my Harvard degree from my small village of Ibad in Misrata, Libya. At the time, I was... Read more about Graduate Profile: Noor Idris Traina, MTS '22 Taking Lessons from Epic, Everyday May 23, 2022 In her graduate student address during Harvard University's Commencement exercises, Lindsay Sanwald, MDiv '22, plans to call on people to rejoice at being together while urging them to acknowledge the devastation caused by the pandemic, to “marvel at the mystery of life” while accepting the “rawness and messiness of the human experience.” Dean David Hempton on Buffalo Shooting May 18, 2022 The below message was sent to members of the HDS community from Dean David N. Hempton on May 16, 2022.... Read more about Dean David Hempton on Buffalo Shooting Graduate Student Profile: Saqib T. Qureshi, MTS '22 May 17, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed To attend a divinity school like HDS is a very unique and fortunate experience. Putting together a cohort of individuals from all walks of life, as well as many diverse religious and non-religious traditions, giving them a space to be in communion – interacting with each other, speaking... Read more about Graduate Student Profile: Saqib T. Qureshi, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Tom Sullivan, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed Coming into HDS at the beginning, I think that I was overly ardent to “prove my worth.” The loneliness of the pandemic and the isolation of screens made it difficult... Read more about Graduate Profile: Tom Sullivan, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Nicholas Scrimenti, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed HDS made me a more capacious thinker, a more effective communicator, and a more compassionate presence to those I serve. Memorable Moment My... Read more about Graduate Profile: Nicholas Scrimenti, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Julia Gail Reimann, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Favorite Class or Professor One of my favorite classes at HDS was “Women and Gender in U.S. Catholicism” with Professor Monica Mercado, a visiting WSRP professor. I took this class my very first... Read more about Graduate Profile: Julia Gail Reimann, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Maya Christine James, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I'd probably say ontology, praxis, and difficult conversations more than any other person I know. Jokes aside, I have come to appreciate the nuances of worldviews that create our... Read more about Graduate Profile: Maya Christine James, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Amanda Wibben, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed 2020 was the start of so much chaos in conjunction with immense self-reflection and discovery. During my time at HDS, I have learned more about myself, my identity, history, and... Read more about Graduate Profile: Amanda Wibben, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Susan Wolf Ditkoff, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed After I graduated from Harvard Business School, I spent about 20 years working directly with philanthropists to help them identify and donate money to promising equity and justice causes.... Read more about Graduate Profile: Susan Wolf Ditkoff, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Molly Silverstein, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment I will always remember helping to build and decorate the HDS sukkah this year, a worthwhile comedy of errors that led to beautiful evenings shared with friends under a crisp September sky. ... Read more about Graduate Profile: Molly Silverstein, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Lóre Stevens, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I know how to survive a plague. Memorable Moment Read more about Graduate Profile: Lóre Stevens, MDiv '22 Graduate Profiles: AJ Faris, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I've gotten to know a lot of really incredible people and learned a lot about my own perspective and methodologies of religious studies scholarship. Memorable Moment... Read more about Graduate Profiles: AJ Faris, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Mary Perez, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment I have many precious memories of playing and singing with my friends in our band, Divine Intervention. It has been a gift to make music together and offer our music to the HDS... Read more about Graduate Profile: Mary Perez, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Cody Hooks, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed The changes that have happened for me over these last three years (through the program and the pandemic) feel like those that happen to a riverbank during a big flood. It recreates... Read more about Graduate Profile: Cody Hooks, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Carolyn Elizabeth Beard, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed My time at HDS has seen my development as a scholar, minister, and person of faith. I am particularly grateful for those I have met here at HDS, friends and mentors, that I trust will be... Read more about Graduate Profile: Carolyn Elizabeth Beard, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Muhammad Souman Elah, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed I think after having met so many interesting people at HDS coming from diverse backgrounds, I have become more empathetic. Memorable Moment ... Read more about Graduate Profile: Muhammad Souman Elah, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Alex Baskin, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Message of Thanks Thank you to Professor Charlie Hallisey for teaching me how to read and for letting me play. Thank you to Professor Saul Zaritt (FAS) for teaching me a way to be... Read more about Graduate Profile: Alex Baskin, MDiv '22 Graduate Profile: Win Htet Kyaw, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed One thing that hasn’t changed since my undergrad days is taking more classes than I can handle every semester. But since starting at HDS, I’ve gained a better understanding of myself... Read more about Graduate Profile: Win Htet Kyaw, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Suraiya Ali, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. How I've Changed HDS expanded my ability to contend with the world as a deeply connected, cosmopolitan place. My studies and relationships helped me augment my worldview and my conception of self. ... Read more about Graduate Profile: Suraiya Ali, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Emily Ostler, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment The simple, shared moments of rest on campus stand out most. I cherish afternoons in the garden, talking with classmates as we harvested hops or kale under the sun. I cherish... Read more about Graduate Profile: Emily Ostler, MTS '22 Graduate Profile: Alejandra Salemi, MTS '22 May 16, 2022 HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Memorable Moment Starting this program in fall 2020 during Zoom school was so incredibly challenging. But even still, during the past two years, both remotely and then eventually in person,... Read more about Graduate Profile: Alejandra Salemi, MTS '22 1 of 38 » News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics 907912572e3e21b6faf38fd03f48cc0f Large people image JS code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement