Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Site name and logo Harvard Divinity School COVID-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search About HDS at a Glance History and Mission Community Values Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Sustainability at HDS Careers Maps, Directions, and Parking Admissions & Aid Apply Connect with Admissions Diversity and Explorations Program Financial Aid Admissions FAQs Academics Degree Programs Nondegree Programs Ministry Studies Professional and Lifelong Learning Faculty 2022 Making Change FAQs Finding Courses Registrar Academic Advising Faculty & Research Faculty of Divinity Faculty Experts Other Faculty Faculty Openings Programs and Centers Research Appointments and Affiliations Harvard Theological Review Faculty News and Research Community Life Student Life Religious and Spiritual Life Career Services Technology News & Events All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Connect Weather Reports Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement Alumni & Friends Alumni / Alumnae Council Dean's Report Gomes Honors Giving Giving Societies Alumni FAQs Covid-19 Updates Prospective Students Directory Email My.HDS Library Give to HDS Search HOME / NEWS / Graduate Profile: Julia Gail Reimann, MDiv '22 May 16, 2022 Julia Gail Reimann, MDiv '22, Courtesy photo HDS communications reached out to our 2022 graduating students to hear from them in their own words about their experiences at HDS, the people who've helped and inspired them along their grad school journeys, and their plans for the future. Favorite Class or Professor One of my favorite classes at HDS was “Women and Gender in U.S. Catholicism” with Professor Monica Mercado, a visiting WSRP professor. I took this class my very first semester and met some of my closest div-school companions there. This class was foundational to my work as a student these last three years and immensely influenced my thesis creation. I am so grateful to Professor Mercado and the rest of our class for their questions and thought, which will continue to influence my life in the future. Message of Thanks I’d like to thank my family for their unending support of me and my divinity-school journey. In particular, I would like to thank my Mom for modeling what a beautiful and impactful life of ministry can look like and for dreaming with me. Thank you to my MDiv cohort for constantly inspiring me and for being community through three immensely challenging years. I am so proud and honored to know each of you. Thank you to my mentor religion professors at Luther College, particularly Todd Green and Kristin Swanson, who helped me find my way here. Thank you to my HDS mentors, including Jen, Stephanie, Margaret, Corein, Chris, Kerry, Gloria, Morgan, and Katie, for seeing and believing in me. Thank you to the many communities within HDS who welcomed and embraced me: the HDS Choir, Tuesday Morning Eucharist (TME) community, Noon Service Steering Committee, HDS Catholics & Friends, my thesis cluster & seminar, HDS Catholic Renewal, Office of Student Life, Office of Admissions, and so many more. Thank you to our band, Divine Intervention (Margaret, Kate, Madeline, Carolyn, Virginia, and Nicole), for getting me through the long hard days of virtual school with your music and friendship. Thank you, pod—Kate, Margaret, & Mary—y’all are so special to me. Thank you all for growing with me. Future Plans Next year I will be a chaplain resident at a hospital in Minneapolis. I plan to continue learning, growing, and making music within new communities in Minnesota. See also: Student Activities and Interviews All News Public Events Calendar Religious Services Calendar Weather Reports Connect Harvard Divinity Bulletin Commencement HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 Harvard Divinity School is a nonsectarian school of religious and theological studies that educates students both in the pursuit of the academic study of religion and in preparation for leadership in religious, governmental, and a wide range of service organizations. 617.495.5761 Map Directory Sign up for Newsletter Harvard University my.hds Prospective Students Careers Make a Gift Annual Copyright Disclosure Accreditation Annual Fire Safety & Security Trademark Notice Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy Policy Styles Code Blue Green Analytics Large people image JS code 27a6e82d5e3a457c80a1b89cbd225c0d Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement