Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Hormone Therapy Hormone Therapy Students who wish to pursue hormone therapy for gender affirmation (aka hormone replacement therapy) may do so at Columbia Health. A collaborative team of staff members from Medical Services, Counseling and Psychological Services, Gay Health Advocacy Project and the Insurance Office is available to support students at different stages of the process. For example, Counseling and Psychological Services has a team dedicated to sexual and gender identity issues. We are committed to making your experience in beginning hormone therapy supportive, non-judgmental, and reasonably rapid. Students who have questions about the process, who are wondering if hormones are right for them, or who feel ready to begin may contact the associate director of the Gay Health Advocacy Project at [email protected] or 212-854-6655 for more information or to get started. Students who have already initiated hormone therapy elsewhere may continue their hormone therapy, including renewal of prescriptions, at Columbia Health Medical Services. Please contact the associate director of the Gay Health Advocacy Project at [email protected] or 212-854-6655 for more information about continuing care or to start the process of establishing care with one of the Medical Services providers who prescribes HRT. Students should bring a copy of their medical records detailing their previous experience with hormone therapy. Students seeking refills are encouraged to connect with their Columbia Health providers in plenty of time before they run out of their prescriptions to avoid last-minute emergencies. Off-campus resources for hormone therapy are also available. Students enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan who wish to use resources off campus should first receive a referral from Medical Services primary care provider in order to be eligible for the full insurance benefit. More Resources for Transgender and Non-Binary Students Visit our Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Care Services page to see a full list of services. Additional Resources Sexual and Gender Identity Issues Gender-Affirming Surgery GHAP/Gay Health Advocacy Project Hormone therapy: Is it right for you? (Mayo Clinic) Hormone therapy for transgender patients (National Institutes of Health) Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Clinical Specialty LGBTQ Sexual and Reproductive Health Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close