Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search Clarification on relaxation of restrictions on visitors and other nonmatriculated student appointments (Updated 7//13/21) March 30, 2021 Categories: Academics, Research, Workplace & HR Sent on June 29, 2021, on behalf of Stacey F. Bent, Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs, and Kathryn Moler, Vice Provost and Dean of Research, co-chairs of the Research Continuity Team of the COVID Academic Policy Group: Following up on the updated policy to relax restrictions on Visiting Student Researchers, Visiting Scholars, and other nonmatriculated student appointments starting September 1, 2021, below are some clarifications that may help streamline processing. Dean-level approval for new nonmatriculated appointments The Provost’s Academic Policy Group requires approval by a school dean on a case- by-case basis until the university can fully assess the public health situation as we return to in-person courses and research at full capacity. This additional level of approval will help ensure schools and departments have the capacity to manage the added responsibilities that nonmatriculated student appointments generate as we emerge from the pandemic. Please include an email approval from the cognizant dean when submitting applications for any nonmatriculated student appointment to Graduate Admissions. Verification of COVID-19 vaccination As of June 21, 2021, all individuals appointed as nonmatriculated students who will be in any Stanford-affiliated facility must be vaccinated for COVID-19. The policy also details the process for vaccination status and verification. Health Alerts has the most up-to-date policy information (scroll down to Visiting Scholars, Researchers, and other Temporary Community Members). Please note that this vaccination requirement applies to both new and currently active nonmatriculated student appointees. Verification of vaccination status should be completed before the nonmatriculated student arrives on campus. By analogy to Stanford’s matriculated students, vaccination is required upon arrival and should be done as soon as possible to avoid delays in the nonmatriculated student’s participation on campus. Stanford staff who support matriculated students should not be asked to rush or expedite processing of nonmatriculated students’ appointments or documents related to immigration or health. What happens after autumn quarter? The Provost’s COVID Academic Policy Group will reassess the public health situation during autumn quarter to determine if continuation of this modified nonmatriculaetd appointment process will be necessary. We appreciate your patience as we continue our staged return to in-person, on-campus research and scholarship. Effective Sept 1: Relaxation of restrictions on visitors and other nonmatriculated student appointments Sent on June 21, 2021, on behalf of Stacey F. Bent, Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs, and Kathryn Moler, Vice Provost and Dean of Research, co-chairs of the Research Continuity Team of the COVID Academic Policy Group: Dear Colleagues, The Provost’s COVID Academic Policy Group has relaxed restrictions on new appointments of Visiting Student Researchers, Visiting Postdoctoral Scholars, Visiting Scholars, and other nonmatriculated students starting September 1, 2021. These new guidelines apply to all new appointments for which the individuals intend to be physically on campus, as explained below. Starting September 1, new appointments are allowed, subject to approval by the cognizant dean of the school for Visiting Student Researchers, Visiting Postdoctoral Scholars, Visiting Scholars, and other nonmatriculated students who will be physically present on campus. Those approving should be aware of these important points: · Any visitors living on or coming to campus must follow all COVID-19 health and safety procedures that are in place at that time. · The appointing department and school are responsible for communicating public health requirements to their visitors as well as ensuring compliance with and covering all associated costs of all COVID-19 safety procedures. · Staff in Graduate Admissions and the Bechtel International Center must prioritize the needs of students matriculated in a Stanford degree program; please consult with Graduate Admissions and Bechtel about the timing of any visitor appointments. Important note: As announced in Health Alerts on May 18, “all temporary community members (e.g., visiting scholars, researchers and external participants of residential summer programs) with a regular presence on campus starting June 21, 2021 will be required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Click here for details.” The restriction on new appointments of remote visitors will continue. Because there may be critical needs for some research programs, the vice provosts will consider requests for exceptions to the restriction on new appointments of remote visitors for high-priority and urgent programmatic needs that are first reviewed and approved by the school deans. The request for an exception should include a brief but specific rationale; this information will allow the vice provosts to review and grant exceptions to this university-wide policy in a consistent and equitable manner across schools. Any exception for remote visitor affiliation should be considered temporary as we continue our staged return to in-person, on-campus research and scholarship. Stanford is expecting that there may still be a need to control access to research facilities due to public health guidelines. Moreover, there are significant risks involved in providing formal visiting scholar or visiting researcher affiliations for individuals who are remote – including diminished oversight ability and enforcement of Stanford policies for someone who is not physically here (out of state or out of country), and potential data sharing concerns (e.g., contractual, export control, IT security, and data privacy). In addition, the university needs to balance the arrival of new visitors and other nonmatriculated students on campus during the pandemic with the need for Stanford’s staff and faculty to serve students matriculated in a Stanford degree program and postdoctoral scholars appointed by the Office of Postdoctoral Affairs. This guidance is in effect until at least December 31, 2021. Thank you for your commitment to these responsibilities as we work together to keep the Stanford community safe and healthy. Previous versions of this policy can be found on COVID-19 Policy Changes for Faculty & Staff. Tags: HiringResearch continuityVisitors Previous post University’s COVID-19 travel policy updated Next post Update on possible vaccine options for eligible groups Announcements categories Academics (36) Campus (46) Fall quarter (2) Finance (11) Health & safety (82) Help & support (11) Leadership communications (43) President (13) Provost (21) Student Affairs (1) Policies (17) Research (13) Travel (27) Uncategorized (1) Vaccine (18) Workplace & HR (35) Announcements by month May 2022 (1) April 2022 (3) March 2022 (1) February 2022 (3) January 2022 (1) December 2021 (1) November 2021 (2) October 2021 (1) September 2021 (1) August 2021 (2) July 2021 (4) June 2021 (5) May 2021 (3) April 2021 (4) March 2021 (5) February 2021 (4) January 2021 (5) December 2020 (6) November 2020 (7) October 2020 (3) September 2020 (5) August 2020 (4) July 2020 (2) June 2020 (4) May 2020 (6) April 2020 (8) March 2020 (39) February 2020 (1) Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Learn remotely Attend classes online Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.