Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Laureate Institute for Brain Research Laureate Institute for Brain Research ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Health Care Delivery Sciences Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Laureate Institute for Brain Research Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses The Laureate Institute for Brain Research (LIBR) opened May 1, 2009, and currently houses a multidisciplinary team of scientists and clinical research staff who apply neuroimaging, genetic, pharmacological and neuropsychological tools to investigate the biology of neuropsychiatric disorders. The institute’s creation was supported by The William K. Warren Foundation for the purpose of conducting studies aimed at developing more effective treatments or prevention strategies for these disorders. The studies are led by scientists from diverse backgrounds, including physics, cognitive neuroscience, psychology, psychiatry, developmental neuroscience, computer science and genetics. Most of the investigators, including Scientific Director Dr. Martin Paulus, and Robin Aupperle, Justin Feinstein, Sahib Khalsa, Jonathan Savitz, Yoon-Hee Cha and Jennifer Stewart also hold faculty positions at The University of Tulsa in the Oxley College of Health Sciences. TU undergraduate and graduate students have the opportunity to gain research experience in areas such as data collection and analysis, clinical assessment, neuroimaging and behavioral tasks and biomarker development at LIBR through volunteering, enrolling in independent study or work study. These experiences may be relevant for students with interests in psychology, medicine and nursing, neuroscience, biology, computer science, engineering and more. Interested students can contact LIBR investigators directly to inquire about opportunities within their labs. To inquire about opportunities to get involved with LIBR research studies, please email info@libr.net. To learn more about the Laureate Institute for Brain Research, click here. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT