Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search Face covering guidance May 13, 2020 Categories: Health & safety, Workplace & HR Effective March 2, 2022, with certain exceptions, face coverings are not required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site at Stanford, regardless of vaccination status. To best protect yourself and others, wear a well-fitting, high-quality face covering. N95 respirators, KN95 masks, KF94 masks, and double masking (e.g., cloth face covering over a disposable surgical mask) provide a higher level of fit and filtration. Surgical masks and double-layer cloth face coverings remain acceptable though they do not provide the same level of personal protection. For more information on selecting face coverings, click here. Face Coverings: While vaccination is the most effective step we can take to minimize the spread of the highly transmissible COVID-19 virus, masking provides an extra level of protection and helps keep our community safe. Based on local COVID-19 metrics being met, the Santa Clara County Public Health Department has transitioned the county’s indoor masking requirement to a “strong recommendation,” effective Wednesday, March 2. In addition, the California Department of Public Health has transitioned its indoor masking requirement for unvaccinated individuals to a strong recommendation, and the county is aligning with that guidance. And Cal-OSHA has lifted the requirement for unvaccinated individuals to mask indoors. With certain exceptions, face coverings are not required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site at Stanford, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings continue to required in classrooms and on Marguerite buses and other campus transportation. However, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. We will monitor conditions and re-evaluate this requirement after the beginning of spring quarter. In compliance with State of California protocols, masking will still be required in these settings, regardless of vaccination status, in: Healthcare facilities, including Vaden Health Center and Stanford hospitals and clinics. Childcare facilities We encourage everyone to respect the choices that individuals make about their own masking in many settings. Quick links: Types of Face Coverings Special Provisions for N95 Respirator Use Types of face coverings N95 respirators, KN95 masks, KF94 masks, and double masking (e.g., cloth face covering over a disposable surgical mask) can provide a higher level of fit and filtration. Surgical masks and double-layer cloth face coverings remain acceptable though they do not provide the same level of personal protection. Face coverings used at Stanford must meet the following minimum California Department of Public Health recommendations: Fits snugly against the sides of your face and does not have gaps around the nose and chin. Be equipped with a nose wire to minimize gaps around the nose bridge. Completely cover the nose and mouth. Acceptable types include cloth masks with tightly woven fabric (i.e., cotton) with minimum two layers, disposable/surgical face masks, and masks with inner filter pockets. NOTE: A face covering does not include a scarf, ski mask, balaclava, bandana, turtleneck, collar or single layer of fabric. Do not choose masks that have any of the following characteristics: Fit loosely on your face with large gaps around the nose and chin. Are made of fabric that is hard to breathe through. Have exhalation valves or vents that allow viral particles to escape. Gaiters and other loose fitting masks are not acceptable, even if double layered. General information on use, care, obtaining, and reuse of face coverings is available here. N95 respirator use Individuals are advised to review N95 Respirator Voluntary Use Guidance for important guidance on the safe use of N95s. During pandemic recovery Stanford has a supply of voluntary use N95 respirators and KN95, disposable surgical and reusable two-ply face coverings. Local units will coordinate with their staff on how to make requests. Students can make requests through their Residential & Dining Enterprises student housing front desk. Departments are to provide required use of N95 respirators to employees where identified jobs have high potential for exposure to known or suspected sources of COVID-19 (e.g., clinical respiratory droplet/ aerosol-generating activities). During wildfire smoke events When the local AirNow Air Quality Index (AQI) consistently remains greater than 151, N95 respirators shall be made available for voluntary use for staff assigned work outdoors or in campus buildings with unfiltered air for more than 1 hour per work shift as per Cal/OSHA. For non critical operations, re-assign staff to work in filtered air location or inform staff not to report for on-site work. When the local AirNow Air Quality Index (AQI) consistently remains greater than 500, N95 respirators use is required for the critical operations that must continue to resume, as required by Cal/OSHA. For information regarding obtaining face coverings for all Stanford sites, see the following information: Can I wear my own face covering? Yes, you are allowed to wear a personally owned cloth face covering. Minimum requirements for face coverings are addressed above. Is Stanford providing face coverings? We encourage you to provide your own face covering wherever possible, and many members of our community have already purchased or made them for their use outside of Stanford. The university has a limited supply of face coverings available. Department managers can request reusable and disposable face coverings via health-alerts@stanford.edu and Environmental Health & Safety will work with each department on their specific needs.For a limited time, there will be face coverings available for students who have not yet been able to obtain their own. Students may check at their residential dining halls or front desks, and can also seek further help from their Residence Dean or GLO Dean. Are face coverings with exhalation valves or vents allowed on campus? While the exhalation valve reduces air resistance when exhaling, they are not designed to contain respiratory droplets. Because of this, face coverings/masks with exhalation valves are not recommended for preventing the community spread of COVID-19 and are not appropriate face coverings on campus. Should I double mask or knot the ear loops on my face covering? Cloth and medical style disposable masks both work well in preventing airborne respiratory droplet spread, but having a close fit is important in making sure they work properly. The fit of the masks you currently wear can be improved by making sure that they are well-fitted to the curves of the face, preventing leakage of air around the mask’s edges especially around the nose and chin. CDC researchers have found two ways to improve the fit of these masks, improve filtration, and reduce the spread of respiratory droplet particles by up to 95%: 1) Double masking by wearing a cloth mask over a disposable surgical face mask. Do not double mask using two cloth masks, two surgical masks, N95 or KN95 masks. Note: Individuals should avoid double masking combinations that result in uncomfortable breathing resistance, obstruct peripheral vision, or might otherwise impact long-term wearability. 2) Knotting or looping the ends of the ear loops of a disposable face mask where they attach to the mask’s edges and then tucking in and flattening the extra material close to the face (knotted and tucked masks, view instructional video here). Note: This option is more suited for those with smaller faces. For support in procurement of disposable face masks, departments can contact EOC Logistics (covid19orders@stanford.edu). Guidance on reuse of face coverings is available here. Tag: Masks Previous post Planning for our next academic year Next post New Health Check tool will support a safe return to work on campus See also Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations Rapid Antigen Tests COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Prevention & self-care Campus hygiene Announcements categories Academics (36) Campus (46) Fall quarter (2) Finance (11) Health & safety (82) Help & support (11) Leadership communications (43) President (13) Provost (21) Student Affairs (1) Policies (17) Research (13) Travel (27) Uncategorized (1) Vaccine (18) Workplace & HR (35) Announcements by month May 2022 (1) April 2022 (3) March 2022 (1) February 2022 (3) January 2022 (1) December 2021 (1) November 2021 (2) October 2021 (1) September 2021 (1) August 2021 (2) July 2021 (4) June 2021 (5) May 2021 (3) April 2021 (4) March 2021 (5) February 2021 (4) January 2021 (5) December 2020 (6) November 2020 (7) October 2020 (3) September 2020 (5) August 2020 (4) July 2020 (2) June 2020 (4) May 2020 (6) April 2020 (8) March 2020 (39) February 2020 (1) Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Testing, prevention & care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Where can I get tested? How do I get vaccinated? Personal care & prevention Campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Report test results/symptoms Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.