Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Community Medicine https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ COMMUNITY MEDICINE Faculty TU’s College of Health Sciences is advancing the university’s mission of providing a quality education to students entering the healthcare industry and related fields while supporting our commitment to improve the lives of Oklahomans. TU is at the forefront of increasing access to medical facilities locally, nationally and globally as well as training the next generation of health care providers and researchers … one of the most noble goals in academia today. The University of Tulsa collaborates with the University of Oklahoma School of Community Medicine’s Physician Assistant Program, one of the strongest primary care PA programs in the country, by providing pre-clinical instruction. View additional information about this program. Physician assistants are healthcare professionals authorized to practice under the supervision of licensed physicians, and the field is one of the fastest growing professions in the country. Students in this unique program collaborate in an interdisciplinary environment and focus on underserved care and available resources throughout the Tulsa community. TU and OU-Tulsa also have a joint affiliation with the William K. Warren Foundation at the Laureate Institute for Brain Research and have forged valuable research partnerships in the areas of immunology and cancer, informatics and the neurosciences. Early Careers in Community Medicine The Early Careers in Community Medicine (ECCM) program provides highly qualified undergraduate students at The University of Tulsa with a unique opportunity to pursue an early provisional acceptance into the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine program, leading to an M.D. degree. OU-TU Physician Assistant Program We are proud to offer an outstanding and unique educational experience for future physician assistants who are committed to primary care and the underserved in Oklahoma. The OU-TU SCM PA program represents a joint effort between the University of Oklahoma School of Community Medicine and the University of Tulsa to provide one of the strongest primary care PA programs in the country. More information. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT