skip to main content Education & Research Patient Care Student Health Care About Administration & Leadership Student Advisory Council Colleges & Campuses Diversity History Priorities News Academics Admissions Clinical Learning Resource Center Degrees & Programs Faculty Resources Transformational Learning Clinical Practice Plan Practice Opportunities Community Community Education Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Centers & Institutes Innovation Research Areas Research News VISION360 Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. Apply Alumni Contact News About Administration & Leadership Student Advisory Council Colleges & Campuses Diversity History Priorities News Academics Admissions Degrees & Programs Clinical Learning Resource Center Faculty Resources Transformational Learning Clinical Patient Care Practice Plan Community Community Education Partnerships & Initiatives Professional Education Research Centers & Institutes Innovation Research Areas Research News Alumni Apply Calendars Contact Directory Employment Give News Parking Press & Media Webmail COVID-19 Updates Texas A&M Health We’re creating the next generation of innovators, advocates, caregivers and life-savers. Connected by our values and unwavering desire to do more, we’re leading the way for a better future for all. Honoring the past, shaping the future Founded by the Morrill Act of 1862, Texas A&M University was created to serve. Today, we lead the way for health care in the 21st century by honoring our land-grant roots and keeping service at the core of our mission. We educate. We innovate. We serve. Magnifying our reach through the power of many Twenty-first century care demands collaboration. As the most comprehensive health science center in Texas, we're breaking down traditional silos and working together to transform health care in new ways and in new places. Texas A&M Health As one of the fastest-growing academic health centers in the nation, Texas A&M Health encompasses five colleges and numerous centers and institutes working together to improve health through transformative education, innovative research and team-based health care delivery. Explore learn more about the HSC College of Dentistry As the largest oral health care provider in North Texas, Texas A&M College of Dentistry brings care to people in need—whenever and wherever they need it. With all nine dental specialties represented, our educational experience is unmatched, and our drive to change lives through innovative technologies and cutting-edge research is unstoppable. Explore Dentistry College of Medicine The College of Medicine is dedicated to producing the physicians and scientists of the future through cutting-edge research, state-of-the-art simulation and hands-on learning in real-world health care settings. Delivering a comprehensive medical training experience while meeting the needs of the medically underserved, we improve access to care and innovate new solutions in health care delivery. Explore Medicine College of Nursing In the face of a critical statewide nursing shortage, the Texas A&M College of Nursing was established to produce leaders, educators, collaborators and researchers in the art and science of nursing. With multiple campuses, online courses and a variety of degree tracks—including a master’s in forensic nursing—students can study with our extraordinary faculty in a way that meets their needs. Explore Nursing College of Pharmacy As the role of pharmacists has expanded beyond the drug store counter, the Texas A&M Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy is committed to serving as part of the patients’ health care team. We train new pharmacists with an appreciation for teamwork and a wide variety of real-world experiences, with more than 170 health care partnerships, while advancing health through research. Explore Pharmacy School of Public Health With undergraduate, master’s and doctoral degrees and six distinguished research centers, the Texas A&M School of Public Health is committed to developing leaders, meeting the needs of a changing health care landscape and engaging in interdisciplinary inquiry to prevent disease, improve health and engage diverse communities worldwide. Explore Public Health Healthy South Texas Healthy Texas combines the expertise of Texas A&M Health with Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service’s statewide reach to provide families with knowledge and resources to take control of their health. The pilot program, Healthy South Texas, operates in a 27-county region to reduce the highest impact diseases, including diabetes, asthma and infectious disease. Explore Healthy South Texas Coastal Bend Health Education Center The Texas A&M Coastal Bend Health Education Center is committed to improving the quality of health care in the Coastal Bend by advancing the knowledge and skills of health care professionals, students and the community through partnerships in education, research and technology, including diabetes education and medication assistance programs. Explore the Coastal Bend Health Education Center A&M Rural and Community Health Institute The A&M Rural and Community Health Institute is a health extension center offering programs that promote safe, effective health care practices, improve access to health care and reduce disparities in health status. It serves as a bridge for health care professionals and their organizations with academic centers, policymakers and researchers to improve the quality and safety of patient care. Explore the A&M Rural and Community Health Center for Health Organization Transformation The Center for Health Organization Transformation, or CHOT, is an industry-university cooperative research center (I/UCRC) funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) and health organizations to conduct research supporting major management, clinical, and information technology innovations in healthcare. CHOT conducts research to support the implementation of evidence-based transformational strategies within healthcare organizations. Explore the Center for Health Organization Transformation Center for Craniofacial Research & Diagnosis The Center for Craniofacial Research & Diagnosis fosters scientific discovery through the integration between clinical and basic research and serves as the home for the research enterprise within Texas A&M College of Dentistry. One of the goals is for the center to serve as a forum for interdisciplinary collaboration. Explore the Center for Craniofacial Research & Diagnosis Institute of Biosciences & Technology From cancer and heart failure to bacterial infections and birth defects, researchers at the Texas A&M Institute of Biosciences & Technology, which was established in 1986 in the Texas Medical Center, work to improve the quality of health care through innovative research and education related to medicine, agriculture, animal sciences and engineering. Explore the Institute of Biosciences & Technology Center for Population Health and Aging The Center for Population Health and Aging coordinates research and practice on strategies for understanding and promoting successful aging, including identification of social, behavioral, and environmental determinants for health and illness in older populations and design and evaluation of multi-level interventions. Explore the Center for Population Health and Aging Global Institute for Hispanic Health Established at Driscoll Children’s Hospital in Corpus Christi and reaching all of South Texas through specialty clinics in Brownsville, Harlingen, McAllen, Laredo and Victoria, the Global Institute for Hispanic Health provides clinical research and education programs that focus, at least initially, on improving the population’s access to clinical trials. Explore the Global Institute for Hispanic Health Texas A&MHealth College ofDentistry School ofPublicHealth College ofMedicine College ofNursing College ofPharmacy Costal BendHealthEducationCenter HealthySouthTexas GlobalInstitutefor HispanicHealth Center forCraniofacialResearch &Diagnosis Center forPopulationHealth & Aging Center forHealthOrganizationTransformation Rural &CommunityHealth Institute Institute ofBiosciences &Technology × Close Texas A&M Health As one of the fastest-growing academic health centers in the nation, Texas A&M Health encompasses five colleges and numerous centers and institutes working together to improve health through transformative education, innovative research and team-based health care delivery. Explore learn more about the HSC × Close College of Dentistry As the largest oral health care provider in North Texas, Texas A&M College of Dentistry brings care to people in need—whenever and wherever they need it. With all nine dental specialties represented, our educational experience is unmatched, and our drive to change lives through innovative technologies and cutting-edge research is unstoppable. Explore Dentistry × Close College of Medicine The College of Medicine is dedicated to producing the physicians and scientists of the future through cutting-edge research, state-of-the-art simulation and hands-on learning in real-world health care settings. Delivering a comprehensive medical training experience while meeting the needs of the medically underserved, we improve access to care and innovate new solutions in health care delivery. Explore Medicine × Close College of Nursing In the face of a critical statewide nursing shortage, the Texas A&M College of Nursing was established to produce leaders, educators, collaborators and researchers in the art and science of nursing. With multiple campuses, online courses and a variety of degree tracks—including a master’s in forensic nursing—students can study with our extraordinary faculty in a way that meets their needs. Explore Nursing × Close College of Pharmacy As the role of pharmacists has expanded beyond the drug store counter, the Texas A&M Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy is committed to serving as part of the patients’ health care team. We train new pharmacists with an appreciation for teamwork and a wide variety of real-world experiences, with more than 170 health care partnerships, while advancing health through research. Explore Pharmacy × Close School of Public Health With undergraduate, master’s and doctoral degrees and six distinguished research centers, the Texas A&M School of Public Health is committed to developing leaders, meeting the needs of a changing health care landscape and engaging in interdisciplinary inquiry to prevent disease, improve health and engage diverse communities worldwide. Explore Public Health × Close Healthy South Texas Healthy Texas combines the expertise of Texas A&M Health with Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service’s statewide reach to provide families with knowledge and resources to take control of their health. The pilot program, Healthy South Texas, operates in a 27-county region to reduce the highest impact diseases, including diabetes, asthma and infectious disease. Explore Healthy South Texas × Close Coastal Bend Health Education Center The Texas A&M Coastal Bend Health Education Center is committed to improving the quality of health care in the Coastal Bend by advancing the knowledge and skills of health care professionals, students and the community through partnerships in education, research and technology, including diabetes education and medication assistance programs. Explore the Coastal Bend Health Education Center × Close A&M Rural and Community Health Institute The A&M Rural and Community Health Institute is a health extension center offering programs that promote safe, effective health care practices, improve access to health care and reduce disparities in health status. It serves as a bridge from health care professionals and their organizations to academic centers, policymakers and researchers to improve the quality and safety of patient care. Explore the A&M Rural and Community Health Institute × Close Center for Health Organization Transformation The Center for Health Organization Transformation, or CHOT, is an industry-university cooperative research center (I/UCRC) funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) and health organizations to conduct research supporting major management, clinical, and information technology innovations in healthcare. CHOT conducts research to support the implementation of evidence-based transformational strategies within healthcare organizations. Explore the Center for Health Organization Transformation × Close Center for Craniofacial Research & Diagnosis The Center for Craniofacial Research & Diagnosis fosters scientific discovery through the integration between clinical and basic research and serves as the home for the research enterprise within Texas A&M College of Dentistry. One of the goals is for the center to serve as a forum for interdisciplinary collaboration. Explore the Center for Craniofacial Research & Diagnosis × Close Institute of Biosciences & Technology From cancer and heart failure to bacterial infections and birth defects, researchers at the Texas A&M Institute of Biosciences & Technology, which was established in 1986 in the Texas Medical Center, work to improve the quality of health care through innovative research and education related to medicine, agriculture, animal sciences and engineering. Explore the Institute of Biosciences & Technology × Close Center for Population Health and Aging The Center for Population Health and Aging coordinates research and practice on strategies for understanding and promoting successful aging, including identification of social, behavioral, and environmental determinants for health and illness in older populations and design and evaluation of multi-level interventions. Explore the Center for Population Health and Aging × Close Global Institute for Hispanic Health Established at Driscoll Children’s Hospital in Corpus Christi and reaching all of South Texas through specialty clinics in Brownsville, Harlingen, McAllen, Laredo and Victoria, the Global Institute for Hispanic Health provides clinical research and education programs that focus, at least initially, on improving the population’s access to clinical trials. Explore the Global Institute for Hispanic Health Transformational Education for all students Drawing from our vast network of scientists, educators and clinical partners from five colleges, our educational degrees and programs produce highly qualified graduates who are equipped to address the health needs of an ever-changing population. Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health "Learning and working alongside students from other health sciences disciplines creates a shared reality and culture, giving us valuable insight into the experiences of those we aim to serve.” Luis Seija College of Medicine former student Learn more about Luis' drive to serve diverse populations Discovery and Innovation for the world Every new challenge presents an opportunity for Aggies to blaze a trail, and in health care and medical research, those opportunities are vast. Our researchers are forging paths to discovery with a common goal in mind: improving human health. More news from Vital Record Impact on the state, nation and world Through a shared responsibility and steadfast commitment to transformational learning and discovery, we are uniquely positioned to solve the greatest challenges in health care for those here in Texas, across the country and around the globe. State With campus locations and clinical affiliates spanning the state, we are structured for impact. Our model acts as a conduit for community-based research, health education and disease prevention initiatives to improve lives within Texas’ 254 counties. 360K+ annual direct contacts made through community outreach and education See our state impact in action Nation We’re the home for leaders who are developing solutions to the seemingly impossible problems facing health care in the United States. Our community of scholars are paving the way for smarter investments with greater returns and helping all Americans live better lives. 3,200 current health professions students ready to affect positive change across the United States See our national impact in action World Our students, educators and innovators work across international boundaries to improve the health of populations. Multiple partnerships and agreements with universities throughout the world lay the groundwork for joint teaching, research and outreach programs. Students are also offered unique experiences to expand academic horizons through global mission trips. 475 patient encounters during a one-time, five-day interdisciplinary mission trip to Bolivia See our global impact in action State Nation World With campus locations and clinical affiliates spanning the state, we are structured for impact. Our model acts as a conduit for community-based research, health education and disease prevention initiatives to improve lives within Texas’ 254 counties. 360K+ annual direct contacts made through community outreach and education See our state impact in action We’re the home for leaders who are developing solutions to the seemingly impossible problems facing health care in the United States. Our community of scholars are paving the way for smarter investments with greater returns and helping all Americans live better lives. 3,200 current health professions students ready to affect positive change across the United States See our national impact in action Our students, educators and innovators work across international boundaries to improve the health of populations. Multiple partnerships and agreements with universities throughout the world lay the groundwork for joint teaching, research and outreach programs. Students are also offered unique experiences to expand academic horizons through global mission trips. 475 patient encounters during a one-time, five-day interdisciplinary mission trip to Bolivia See our global impact in action FacebookTwitterInstagramLinked inRSSYouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Privacy Policy Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.