Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home LGBTQIA Care Stamps Health Services is committed to providing affirming health and wellness services, inclusive of all sexual orientations and gender identities. All Stamps services are confidential by law. We recommend choosing a clinician with whom you feel comfortable for continuing health needs. This allows you to develop an ongoing professional relationship and provides greater ease at discussing your health concerns. You can change clinicians at any time. You can update your medical record with a chosen name and you have the option of selecting the pronouns that you use. Stamps also provides gender neutral restrooms. The LGBTQIA Resource Center supports education, advocacy and outreach for people of all genders and sexual identities. The Center provides training, student and employee programs, and resources for LGBTQIA health and wellness. Regardless of your gender identity, If you have a concern regarding the vagina, uterus or related sex organs, you can schedule an appointment in Women’s Health. If you have general health issues, such as sore throat, injury, headache, cough or rash your needs are best addressed in the Primary Care Clinic. The Primary Care Clinic is also best to evaluate concerns involving the penis, testicles or related sex organs. Information on men’s health services can be found here. Trans health Stamps Health Services staff can work with community specialists if you are currently receiving or interested in starting hormone therapy. We can also assist with laboratory testing and prescription refills. Visit the LGBTQIA Resource Center for resources regarding transgender health and wellness, support groups, and gender inclusive housing and restrooms. HIV prevention and treatment support PrEP (Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis) to reduce the risk HIV infection along with safer sex practices. Additional information on PrEP can be found at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. PEP (Post-Exposure Prophylaxis) to help prevent HIV infection after a potential HIV exposure. PEP is for people who have potentially been exposed to HIV in the previous 72 hours. PEP is a month-long medication treatment. Visit the CDC for more information. HIV treatment support including coordinated care with infectious disease and mental health specialists, laboratory testing and prescription refill assistance. Counseling and support regarding sexual trauma Georgia Tech sexual assault response with resources on sexual violence and services offered by the Georgia Tech Counseling Center. VOICE, Georgia Tech's sexual and relationship violence prevention and survivor support initiative. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login