Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > TU partners with LIBR for novel research TU partners with LIBR for novel research December 23, 2014 The Laureate Institute for Brain Research (LIBR) in Tulsa is one of a kind — practicing state-of-the-art research techniques such as neuroimaging while also studying cyber behavior and conducting athletic concussion research. Located on the campus of the Laureate Psychiatric Clinic and Hospital, LIBR is an independently operated facility opened in 2009 to better understand the pathogenetic features of mental disorders. Through the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), genetic testing, behavioral assessment and therapeutics, LIBR scientists are improving the early detection, prevention and treatment of major neuropsychiatric diseases. TU’s Tandy School of Computer Science has had a hand in LIBR’s development from the outset. “Several students stepped in to research and help build the computer system,” said Pat Bellgowan, a former LIBR and TU School of Community Medicine faculty member who also served as director of cognitive neuroscience. “It’s a small institute that focuses specifically on biomedical research, so it was nice to find a partner that specializes in other areas, particularly in information processing and bioinformatics.” While LIBR scientists are grateful for TU’s commitment to collaborate on projects and share critical manpower, students from several disciplines –– computer science, biology and psychology –– benefit from the priceless research opportunities that offer grant writing experience and publication in national journals. One of TU and LIBR’s largest collaborative projects is a research initiative to explore the neurobiology of cyber trust. Through the evaluation of fMRI brain scans and the online behavior exhibited in different scenarios, LIBR, the TU Institute of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, the Department of Psychology and the Institute for Information Security are working to reduce the risk of security attacks that occur in the cyber traffic of America’s armed forces. Also at LIBR, Bellgowan and TU have pioneered national research in athletic-related concussions with the help of Golden Hurricane athletics. The Journal of the American Medical Association recently published LIBR’s research documenting a smaller hippocampal region of the brain and slower reaction times in TU football players with a history of concussions. The study is the most comprehensive ever to assess the effects of football specifically on college players. “TU’s clinical expertise and the access we were given within the Golden Hurricane athletic department is unprecedented nationally,” Bellgowan said. “Other studies have evaluated older athletes, but no one has ever studied 20-year-olds until now.” LIBR and TU are now preparing for the launch of their newest endeavor, the Tulsa 1,000, a groundbreaking project that will track and examine the moods of 1,000 Tulsa residents suffering from substance abuse and other mental health problems. A TU alumnus will coordinate the study, and TU students will assist with data intake and storage. “LIBR wouldn’t be where it is today without the support of TU. The university is LIBR’s strongest partner and can be credited for much of its success,” Bellgowan said. Featured, Health Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Categories Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Biological Science Business Career Services Commitment Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Communication Sciences & Disorders Community Service Computer Science Diversity Doctor of Nursing Practice Engineering and Natural Sciences Exercise & Sports Science Experiential Learning Faculty Family Nurse Practitioner Featured Global Education Health Care Delivery Sciences Health Sciences IDEAS: A 21st-century health blog Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Law School News Nursing President Research Schweitzer Fellowship Stories Student Stories study abroad True Blue uncategorized veterans 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT