Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > TU students help major health care provider assess community needs TU students help major health care provider assess community needs January 11, 2022 Ascension St. John is one of the oldest and largest health care providers in Oklahoma, serving people across four counties – Tulsa, Creek, Nowata and Washington. Like all nonprofit health systems, every three years Ascension St. John undertakes a community health needs assessment (CHNA). The data gathered through this process help the organization to identify unmet health needs – for example, access to care, mental health services, prevention programs — and then plans ways to address them. As the introduction to the 2019 CHNA report notes, “CHNAs are essential to community building and health improvement efforts. These powerful tools have the potential to be catalysts for immense community change.” For its current CHNA endeavor, Ascension St. John reached out to Associate Professor of Community Medicine Jeffrey Alderman to recruit him as the lead on primary and secondary data collection. In addition to serving as a physician on the organization’s staff for many years, Alderman directs several courses in health care delivery sciences for undergraduate and graduate students. First-hand research experience in public health Back row: Mary Beth Sawyer, Madison Hemenway, Kristin Huang, Jason Lu, Jeff Alderman Front row: Caiton Wilmoth, Cassie Vestal, Ann Marie Flusche, Natasha Chaalan In that capacity, Alderman recognized a unique opportunity for University of Tulsa students to get involved and experience the methodologies and rigors of public health research. “My goal,” said Alderman, “was to create a real-world, hands-on experience for students to learn about boosting health care access, affordability, equitability and quality, as well as patient satisfaction. Given the ongoing impact of COVID-19, I also thought that students would find it fascinating to gain insight into the pandemic’s population health effects.” That was exactly the result for biological science junior Madison Hemenway: “I knew that some Tulsa families were suffering but had no idea how heavily COVID-19 impacted their lives. With children at home logging onto online school, and parents out of work, there was a perfect storm that resulted in huge amounts of stress on families. Some people dealt with that stress by abusing alcohol and drugs, others reported experiencing interpersonal violence at home.” Additionally, Alderman discerned, involvement in Ascension St. John’s CHNA would shed light for students on the roles played by government, health systems, nonprofit organizations and the business community. “Ascension St. John is honored to collaborate with Dr. Alderman and his students on the data collection for our 2022 CHNAs,” said Annie R. Smith, the organization’s community benefit director. “The input collected from the CHNAs is used to identify our community’s most pressing needs and address them through the promotion of a healthier, more equitable community. I am elated to share this capacity-building opportunity with TU’s students as they emerge as new leaders making positive and sustainable changes in our community.” A unique learning opportunity Alderman’s independent study course – HCDS 4993: Community Health Needs Assessment – ran through fall 2021. Nine students enrolled, representing an array of majors, including exercise and sports science, anthropology, psychology and biology (pre-med). A number of them did so because they had an eye on public health as the basis of all or part of their careers. Rather than attend traditional classes, throughout the semester the students met one on one and several times as a large group with Alderman. The point of these meetings was to receive mentorship, while allowing the students to share and compare findings, and ask questions about community participatory research. Outside of these gatherings, the students were responsible for completing a series of data-gathering steps: They called key stakeholders in the four-county Ascension St. John service area, querying individuals about the strengths of and challenges facing the health of their communities. Students employed a standard set of 14 questions, including how the COVID-19 pandemic has affected people’s lives. They visited one or more “vulnerable population group” settings (e.g., Morton Comprehensive Health, Community Health Connection, Tulsa County Sheriff’s Office, The Equality Center, Catholic Charities) where they meet with health leaders and patients/clients. Students again employed a standard set of questions. They researched known databases, looking for secondary data, such as demographics, disease rates, insurance status and childhood outcomes. After each encounter, the students gathered and submitted their raw data to Alderman. They also then drew on that information to develop summaries of their main findings. “An eye-opening experience” One of Alderman’s students, sophomore Natasha Chaalan, found the course to be “an eye-opening experience, revealing all the flaws in Oklahoma’s health care system.” Pursuing a degree through the accelerated exercise and sports science to athletic training master’s program, Chaalan found that a common theme arising from her research was lack of health literacy among individuals, a problem that, she noted, has “severely affected” communities’ overall health. In addition, Chaalan and her teammates found that difficulty accessing transportation was also a key issue, especially for elderly patients. For junior Caiton Wilmoth, “working on the CHNA offered me a look at the many layers of Tulsa. Our city is much more diverse than I had ever imagined,” said this biochemistry major, “and many people require a lot of help with meeting their basic needs. I had no idea I was so lucky in the world.” Anthropology junior Kristin Huang, meanwhile, learned about health care as it is really experienced by thousands of people and found herself motivated to bring about positive change: “I wish that the disparity gaps in our community weren’t so wide. To me, the public school system especially needs a lot of help. But this independent study experience left me empowered and believing that someday I might help fix the system.” Community health beyond theory For their final assignment, Alderman had students write an academic “reflection” paper approximately 10 pages in length. This paper combined elements of their research findings with insights both on what they learned about community health as well as what they would recommend changing in order to bring about improvements. Having taught courses on community medicine for years, Alderman saw his fall 2021 students energized by the “real encounters” they gained throughout the Tulsa region. “They learned about physical and mental health, as well as the social determinants of health, in a manner that everyday classroom teaching can never match,” remarked Alderman. “In turn,” noted Alderman, the benefit for Ascension St. John was the ability to work with smart, enthusiastic young people who were familiar with the area, rather than outsourcing the project to external consultants.” Alderman and his students are also grateful for the help and support they received along the way from the Tulsa Health Department. Oxley College of Health Sciences programs will prepare you for success in a number of in-demand professions. But if one of our existing majors or minors doesn’t fit your career goals, consider designing and completing your own interdisciplinary health sciences major. Learn more here or send an email to robin-ploeger@utulsa.edu. Featured, Health Care Delivery Sciences, Health Sciences, News, Research, Stories, Student Stories Annie Smith, Ascension St. John, By Jeffrey Alderman, CHNA, community health needs assessment Categories Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Biological Science Business Career Services Commitment Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Communication Sciences & Disorders Community Service Computer Science Diversity Doctor of Nursing Practice Engineering and Natural Sciences Exercise & Sports Science Experiential Learning Faculty Family Nurse Practitioner Featured Global Education Health Care Delivery Sciences Health Sciences IDEAS: A 21st-century health blog Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Law School News Nursing President Research Schweitzer Fellowship Stories Student Stories study abroad True Blue uncategorized veterans 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT