Skip to main content Menu Main navigation Accelerator Portfolio Toolkit Events News About Us Quick Links Open Jobs Contact Us Ask Us Search Innovators Meet Here Penn Health-Tech connects innovators across the University system and facilitates innovation in medical devices and healthcare technology. Health Tech Accelerator Penn Health-Tech helps turn innovative ideas into useful technologies and products that advance healthcare and benefit society. #PoweredbyPenn Explore Penn's rich ecosystem of health technology resources and join our community of innovators. Podcast: Katherine Reuther, PhD, MBA on MIDI Innovation Vault - Episode 6, Series 5 View All News Develop a device or technology Explore the health tech community Connect with us Develop The Health Tech Accelerator provides funding, hands-on advising, and resources to empower innovators to develop transformative devices and technologies. Learn More Featured ResourcesView All Resources Powered By Penn Academic Entrepreneurship for Medical and Health Scientists (Online Book) Academic Entrepreneurship is a repository of tools, advice, and best practices that establishes a foundation for academic researchers and innovators… Read More Powered By Penn PCI Ventures PCI Ventures supports the creation of spinouts from Penn through targeted programs and activities. Read More Explore Join our community of innovators from across the university and find out what’s happening in the health tech space. We offer faculty salons, special speaker series, and many other ways to explore the work of change makers in health care and technology. Go to Events Latest StoriesView All Hannah Carney December 6, 2021 Watch this Space: Penn Health-Tech Drives Innovation It’s been a busy fall for Penn Health-Tech. This year’s cohort for the Accelerator program was selected in July, from a… Read More MIDI December 1, 2021 Podcast: Katherine Reuther, PhD, MBA on MIDI Innovation Vault - Episode 6, Series 5 Katherine Reuther, PhD, MBA was interviewed on MIDI's Innovation Vault podcast series that deep dives into medical and… Read More Penn Dental Medicine August 2, 2021 Penn Health-Tech Funded: Penn Dental Medicine, Penn Engineering Award First IDEA Prize to Advance Oral Health Care Innovation Penn Dental Medicine and Penn Engineering, which teamed earlier this year to launch the Center for Innovation and… Read More Connect Connect with us by visiting our office hours, checking out our resources for innovators, or by submitting to our newsletter. We look forward to talking with you. Ask Penn Health-Tech Penn Health-Tech staff and faculty are available to connect with you 1-on-1. Book an appointment to meet with our team. Schedule Appointment Powered by Penn Ready to move forward with your health technology project? Explore Penn’s myriad resources to help you bring your new idea to life. Go to Toolkit Share your Program or Event The Penn Health-Tech newsletter features news from our center as well as curated events and opportunities from the broader health tech community. Submit details about your health tech program or event and we’ll help you get the word out in our newsletter. Submit to Newsletter Get the Inside Track! Sign up for the Penn Health-Tech Monthly newsletter and get the latest health technology news, opportunities, and programs. Subscribe Penn Health-Tech Vagelos Laboratories of the IAST University of Pennsylvania 3340 Smith Walk Philadelphia PA, 19104 (215)573-3174 Contact Us Job Board Search twitter Facebook linkedin © 2021 University of Pennsylvania. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy