Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Health Services Additional Services Influenza (Flu) Your browser does not support the video tag. Influenza (flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It can cause mild to severe illness. Some people, such as older people, young children, and people with certain health conditions, are at an increased risk of complications from the flu. Common symptoms of the flu include: Fever Body aches Chills Cough Sore throat Flu Vaccines The best way to prevent flu illness is by getting vaccinated every year. Students may get their flu shot through any of the methods below. Flu shots can be received during a physical/sick visit to Primary Care. Student Flu Clinic Dates January 19, 2022 - 3:00p.m. - 7:00p.m. Faculty/Staff Flu Shots Call Stamps Health Services Pharmacy at 404-894-1430 ext. 5 to schedule an appointment. Walk-ins are welcome, however, there may be a wait depending upon the current patient volume. Masks will be required. Temperatures will be taken at the door. Additional Details Free for Students who have paid the health fee Cost Treating the Flu If you have the flu, there are a number of things you can do to help your body recover. Stay home to prevent spreading the infection to others. For students living on campus, consider going home to your permanent residence if possible. It is safe to return to work and school once you have been without fever for 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medications, such as Tylenol or Advil. Cover your nose and mouth when sneezing or coughing. Wash your hands after sneezing or coughing. If soap and water are not available, use alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Get extra rest. Drink lots of fluids - water or sports drinks. Take medications to relieve your symptoms, including acetaminophen (Tylenol) and ibuprofen (Advil) for fever and body aches, decongestant for nasal congestion, and a cough suppressant if you have a cough. Tamiflu, an antiviral medication, can be used to treat the flu. On average, it shortens the duration of symptoms by one day. It does have some side effects, such as nausea. It is currently recommended for individuals who have increased risk for complications. Most Georgia Tech students are not considered at risk for flu complications. Who is at risk for complications from the flu? Persons of any age with certain chronic medical conditions including asthma, diabetes, immune suppression, heart, lung, liver or kidnes disease, or morbid obesity Pregnant women Adults aged 65 years or older Children younger than 5 years old When should I seek medical treatment? You should seek medical treatment if you experience one or more of the following symptoms: Significant shortness so breath or breathing problems Confusion, change in level of consciousness, or inability to think normally Sudden or severe dizziness or fainting Chest discomfort or abdominal discomfort Persistent vomiting Pain in the throat severe enough to prevent the intake of fluids by mouth Initial improvement of symptoms followed by worsening cough Is it the flu or a cold? The flu and common cold are both respiratory illnesses but are caused by different viruses. The illness have similar symptoms so it is sometimes difficult to tell the difference by symptoms alone. The chart below can help you determine what might be making you feel sick. Symptom Flu Common Cold Symptom Onset Abrupt Gradual Fever Usual, lasts 3 to 4 days Rare Aches Usual, often severe Slight Chills Fairly common Uncommon Sneezing Sometimes Common Stuffy nose Sometimes Common Sore throat Sometimes Common Chest discomfort, cough Common, can be severe Mild to moderate, hacking cough Headache Common Rare Fatigue, weakness Usual Sometimes Source: CDC Frequently Asked Questions How does the flu shot work? Flu vaccines cause your body to develop antibodies to the flu about two weeks after vaccination. These antibodies provide protection against infection with the viruses that are in the vaccine – some vaccine protect against three strains (trivalent) and some protect against 4 strains (quadrivalent). Who should get the flu shot? Everyone 6 months of age or older should get the flu vaccine every season. Why do I need to get a flu shot every flu season? There are two main reasons. First, your body’s immune response to vaccination declines over time, so getting your shot each year helps provide you with optimal protection. Second, flu viruses that circulate change every season, the vaccine is reformulated each season. I am a healthy person, do I really need the flu shot? Yes. Getting vaccinated not only helps protect you from the flu virus, but also helps protect those around you, including those who are more vulnerable to serious flu illness, like babies and young children, older people, and people with certain chronic health conditions. I heard the flu shot gives you the flu, is that true? No. The flu shot CANNOT give you the flu. However there are mild and short-lasting side effects such as soreness, redness or swelling where the vaccine was given, a low-grade fever, and aches are common. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login