Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Breadcrumb Home Vaccinations Sub Navigation In This Section Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Brown requires all employees and all students who are engaged in on-campus activities this summer to receive the final dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by July 1, 2021. Brown also requires the COVID-19 vaccine for all students who will be on campus or engage in any level of in-person instruction for the fall semester, whether in the U.S. or abroad. All individuals 12 years of age and older who reside in the United States are eligible to receive the vaccine. The U.S. government is providing the COVID-19 vaccine free of cost for all individuals living in the United States. In some cases, your health insurance will be billed for the cost of administering the vaccine, but not for the vaccine itself. How to get a COVID-19 Vaccination in Rhode Island All individuals age 12 and older who live, work or study in Rhode Island are eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccine at no cost and with no requirement for insurance. There are multiple vaccination locations within walking distance or accessible by shuttle or RIPTA from campus. Local Pharmacy, Community Clinic or Hospital Several nearby locations are offering the vaccine and are within walking distance from campus or near a shuttle line. You no longer need an appointment to get vaccinated at CVS, Walgreens, Walmart and Stop & Shop pharmacy locations. More information about those options can be found on the Rhode Island Department of Health website. Nearby locations include: CVS Pharmacy (481 Angell Street) Walgreens (135 Pitman Street) CVS Pharmacy (799 Hope Street) Walgreens (1140 N Main Street) Green Line Apothecary (905 N Main Street) Miriam Hospital (164 Summit Avenue) and community clinics, Billy Taylor Park (124 Camp Street), Mt. Hope Community Center (199 Camp Street), and Coastal Medical - Hillside (727 East Avenue #2) are also providing vaccinations. Vaccination Clinics in the Greater Rhode Island Area (RIPTA-accessible) Many cities and towns in Rhode Island are operating local and regional vaccine sites as well. The state’s vaccine locator map includes these sites, and many are accessible by RIPTA which is free with your Brown ID. Providence residents can find information about vaccine sites available to them on the City of Providence’s vaccine information website. Additional resources and information can be found on RIDOH’s COVID-19 vaccination page. For International Students Vaccination Guidelines and Rules for Vaccine Interchangeability For international students vaccinated with COVID-19 vaccines not authorized in the U.S., Brown has established requirements for accepting international vaccinations that closely follow CDC guidelines, as well as protocols for interchangeability of vaccines. Students do not need to arrange their travel to campus around vaccination or revaccination plans and will be able to schedule vaccination upon their arrival. At this time, the following guidelines with regard to international vaccinations apply to all students who will be on Brown's campus or participating in a Brown-administered program: Students fully vaccinated with WHO-Emergency Use Listing (EUL) vaccines are not required to get EUA/FDA-authorized vaccines here in the U.S. but are eligible for revaccination. The revaccination must be scheduled at least 28 days after the last WHO-EUL vaccination. Students vaccinated with WHO-EUL vaccines will be considered fully vaccinated by CDC standards and in compliance with the University's vaccination requirement. Those who have not been fully WHO-EUL vaccinated or are unvaccinated (due to exemption or still completing the vaccination series) will be required to wear a mask and follow other safety requirements as determined by University Health Services. Those who started the series with WHO-EUL vaccines but have not finished can get revaccinated in Rhode Island 28 days after their last vaccination. Students who started or completed the series with a non-WHO or non-EUA/FDA-authorized vaccine will be offered revaccination with EUA/FDA authorized vaccine after 28 days. Those unable to be vaccinated in their current country will be able to get vaccinated when they arrive in Rhode Island. Students are not expected to arrive early to receive the vaccination. They will be required to wear a mask and follow other safety requirements as determined by University Health Services until fully vaccinated. All unvaccinated students must arrive in Providence on or before Sept. 1, 2021, to observe a modified quarantine. The University is requiring unvaccinated students who are arriving in Providence to adhere to the following public health measures: Enter a seven-day modified quarantine period when they arrive; get tested on the first and fifth days of their modified quarantine period; and wear a mask and practice social distancing as directed by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. For the seven-day modified quarantine period, students will not be permitted to leave their residential building for any reason (including classes) except to get a COVID-19 test, receive clinical care from University Health Services by appointment, pick up a meal from a dining hall, or pick up mail or packages. These public health measures are critically important to the continued health and safety of the Brown community. Students who receive a positive result from any COVID-19 test will be required to isolate for 10 days as directed by University Health Services and may miss the first week of classes or some portion of it, depending on the date of their positive result. Unvaccinated students will be permitted to exit their modified quarantine period after they have received negative results from both their Day 1 and Day 5 tests. For International Faculty and Staff Vaccination Guidelines and Rules for Vaccine Interchangeability Brown has established requirements for accepting international vaccinations that closely follow CDC guidelines regarding those vaccinated with COVID-19 vaccines not authorized in the U.S. and interchangeability of vaccines. Faculty and Staff do not need to arrange their travel to campus around vaccination or revaccination plans, and will be able to schedule vaccination upon their arrival. At this time, the following guidelines apply to Brown Faculty and Staff receiving international vaccinations: Those fully vaccinated with WHO-Emergency Use Listing (EUL) vaccines are not required to get EUA/FDA-authorized vaccines here in the U.S., but are eligible for revaccination. The revaccination must be scheduled at least 28 days after the last WHO-EUL dose. Faculty and Staff vaccinated with WHO-EUL vaccines will be considered fully vaccinated by CDC standards and in compliance with the University's vaccination requirement. Those who have not been fully WHO-EUL vaccinated or are unvaccinated (due to exemption or still completing the vaccination series) may have to wear a mask and follow other safety requirements as determined by University Human Resources. Those who started the series with WHO-EUL vaccines but have not finished can get revaccinated in Rhode Island 28 days after their last dose. Those who started or completed the series with a non-WHO or non-EUA/FDA-authorized vaccine will be required to revaccinate with EUA/FDA authorized vaccine after 28 days. Those unable to be vaccinated in their current country will be able to get vaccinated when they arrive in Rhode Island. They may have to wear a mask and follow other safety requirements as determined by University Human Resources until fully vaccinated, but are not expected to arrive early to receive the vaccination. Vaccinated? Let Us Know Brown requires that all students and employees who have had the opportunity to receive an FDA-approved vaccination against COVID-19 provide verification of receipt of vaccination by uploading the completed vaccination card received from your vaccination provider. Please see the Verify Your Vaccination page. Last updated August 30, 2021. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Open details for Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Bookmark this Page