Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Breadcrumb Home Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Host departments are responsible for their visitors and guests, including ensuring that they are aware of and comply with the University’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and all relevant health and safety protocols. When hosting a short-term visitor who is working on-site at Brown four or more days per month, departments must enter contact information for each visitor (name, email address, date of arrival and length of visit) in the department visitor form. The visitor will then receive via email a link to an up to date vaccination attestation form that they must read and complete, affirming that they are up to date with COVID-19 Vaccines. The department and the visitor will receive email confirmation after the form is successfully completed. Please see the definitions of short- and long-term visitors on the Visitors and Guests page and in the detailed Visitors and Guests Vaccination Requirement FAQ. Department Visitor Form (Login Required) Vaccinations for Visitors and Guests on Campus Less Than Four Days In some circumstances, but only with written approval in advance from the Provost’s Office, departments can require visiting lecturers or guest instructors who are on campus for less than four days to be up to date with COVID-19 Vaccines. Visitors for Conferences and Events Lasting Less Than Four Days The level of sustained and consistent in-person contact of the engagement may warrant treating a conference attendee as a short-term visitor who must complete the up to date vaccination attestation form in advance of their visit. For example, a department may require up to date vaccination attestation forms for visitors attending a one- to three-day conference or seminar where participants are in shared spaces in close proximity for all or most of the program. Departments hosting such events and who wish to consider requiring visitors and guests to complete the up to date vaccination attestation form should contact visitors@brown.edu well in advance, and no less than two weeks before of the event. Visiting Lecturers and Guest Instructors on Campus Less Than Four Days The level of sustained and consistent in-person contact of the engagement may warrant treating a guest as a short-term visitor who must complete the up to date vaccination attestation form in advance of their visit. For example, a guest artist arrives on a Tuesday. They have dinner on Tuesday night with students, participate in class visits and a rehearsal on Wednesday, and give a public performance or lecture on Thursday. While the visiting lecturer or guest is on campus less than four days, the level of sustained and consistent in-person contact of the engagement warrants treating the guest artist as a short-term visitor who must complete the up to date vaccination attestation form in advance of their visit. Departments hosting such visitors and who wish to consider requiring them to complete the up to date vaccination attestation form should contact visitors@brown.edu well in advance, and no less than two weeks before the visit. Departments Managing Vendors and Contractors The University's COVID-19 policies and protocols for vendors and contractors are available on the Strategic Purchasing, Contracts and Insurance website: Conducting Business with Brown University page. Similar to long-term and short-term visitors, vendors whose level of engagement with the Brown campus require being up to date with COVID-19 Vaccines (e.g., sustained and consistent in-person contact) must attest that their employees are up to date with COVID-19 Vaccines. Vendors and contractors in this category will be notified by the University about the process. Questions regarding these requirements should be directed to purchasing@Brown.edu. Departments Hosting Events Departments hosting events should note COVID-19 policies in event publicity materials and must enforce COVID-19 policies during the event itself. Event publicity materials can link to the Visitors and Guests page on this website and include the following: “Brown University abides by public health guidance and health and safety protocols to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals).” A similar statement can be made at the beginning of an event. Contact After reading the detailed Visitors and Guests FAQ, if you still have questions regarding whether a visitor is long-term, short-term or limited-duration, those questions can be directed to visitors@brown.edu. Departments and members of the Brown community with additional questions regarding visitors and guests related to COVID-19 also can send an email to visitors@brown.edu. Last updated Feb. 15, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Open details for Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Bookmark this Page