Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About About Us History In 1909, the realization of the need for a campus hospital arose when an unnamed student died due to unavailability of medical facilities. President Kenneth Mathison appealed to Georgia Federation of Women’s Clubs for support. Georgia Federation of Women’s Clubs formed a committee and one of their members, Mrs. Joseph B. Whitehead gave the first gift, $5,000.00 to get the project rolling. In the midst of construction, they ran out of money and made a public appeal for money or materials to finish the job. Georgia Federation of Women’s Clubs had a bill presented at the 1911 General Assembly and an appropriation of $6,000.00 was made. The building was completed and a dedication was held on November 13, 1911. The Hospital could accommodate 27 patients and had suites for nurses, doctors and a small lab; it also had an isolation ward and sun room. This first Joseph B. Whitehead Hospital was under the supervision of a doctor who also had his own private practice, so a leading student from the Emory School of Medicine would be selected to run the day-to-day operations of the infirmary. One of the medical students chosen for that honor was Edward Roe Stamps III, and his time on our campus was the start of a long and fortuitous relationship between the Stamps family and Georgia Tech. Since 1911, Health Services has grown into a 40,000 square feet, state-of-the-art, outpatient ambulatory center that provides health care and health education to eligible students and their spouse/domestic partners in six areas: primary care, pharmacy, women’s health, psychiatry, and support services (laboratory, radiology, immunization, and eye exams). On average, Health Services physicians treat 30,000 patients per year. More About Accreditation Need Assistance? Call us at (404) 894-1420 Schedule an appointment online Refill a prescription online Use our online support form After Hours Sign up for the Health Initiatives monthly newsletter here. Visit the contact page Welcome Video Programs Advance Directives Stamps Health Services Ambassadors Tobacco Cessation Facility Stamps Health Services is an outpatient ambulatory care center that provides health care and health education to students and their spouses/domestic partners. The center is located in a state-of-the-art, 40,000-square-foot facility within the Joseph Brown Whitehead Building (740 Ferst Drive), next to the Campus Recreation Center. Our mission is to promote the health and well-being of the Georgia Tech community by leading public health initiatives, developing health education and health promotion activities, providing training, research and teaching for new health professionals, providing direct patient care to students, faculty, staff, and the larger campus community, and to provide health services to visitors and guests receiving educational and related services at Georgia Tech and other health services the Senior Director of the SHS deems supportive of Georgia Tech’s educational mission. Services Our Services include primary care, pharmacy, women’s health, psychiatry, immunization and allergy, and nutrition. We also have on-site laboratory and radiology services. Stamps Health Services is accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC.) This means that SHS participates in on-going self-evaluation, peer review, and education to continuously improve its care and services. SHS also commits to a thorough, on-site survey by AAAHC surveyors, who are themselves health care professionals, at least every three years. SHS is also a member of the American College Health Association (ACHA). Stamps Health Services is here to help you have a wonderful experience and stay healthy! Please do not hesitate to contact us for assistance. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login