Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home For Students Student Health Insurance Plan 2021-2022 Student Health Insurance Plan Dates Summer 2022 I Enrollment Period: 4/11/22 - 6/10/22 with coverage period 5/1/22 - 7/31/22 Summer 2022 II Enrollment Period: 6/13/22 - 6/27/22 with coverage period 6/20/22 - 7/31/22 Georgia Tech is proud to offer a student health insurance program (SHIP) for enrolled undergraduate and graduate students, and their eligible dependents who do not already have insurance. This plan includes comprehensive covered benefits (medical, dental, vision, prescription and worldwide travel) for the 2021-2022 policy year administered by United HealthcareStudentResources (UHCSR). 2021-2022 Student Health Insurance Program Plan - Key Changes for Fall 2021 Due to increases in claim costs in part due to Covid-19, Georgia Tech’s student health insurance plan is being consolidated into the USG system-wide Student Health Insurance plan. Read the memo outlining all the changes here. Student Health Insurance Enrollment Process The graph below has been created by SGA students to help all students better understand SHIP enrollment process. Mandatory Plan Information 2021-2022 Plan Rates Voluntary Plan Information Frequently Asked Questions GRA Employer Plan Connect with Us Need Assistance? UnitedHealthcare StudentResources Customer Service: 888-949-0930 Stamps Health Services Insurance Coordinator, Jennifer White: 404- 894-0633 Mandatory Plan Students in the mandatory group are required to carry health insurance coverage during their program of study at Georgia Institute of Technology. You must enroll yourself and your eligible dependents under the mandatory plan twice a policy year (Fall and Spring/Summer). Mandatory group information Mandatory Plan Brochure Step by Step Mandatory Plan Enrollment/Waive Guide To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Enrollment Information: If you attempt to enroll and your name cannot be found in the UHCSR system, try again each day. Georgia Tech sends a mandatory file to UHCSR reflecting when the insurance charge has been placed on tuition daily. You will not be able to enroll online until UHCSR receives a file containing your information. Once enrollment is finalized, an email is sent from notifications@uhcsr.com with instructions on how to access the electronic medical ID card through the UHCSR secure portal, My Account. If you do not receive the email, you can access the My Account page here. My Account gives you access to the medical ID card, claims information, customized provider search, cost estimator tools, access to ancillary benefits and more. UHCSR has built a video library to help guide you through the different aspects of their health insurance; you can access it at uhcsr.com/video. Shortly after enrollment is complete, you will receive a dental card in the mail from UHC Dental. The medical ID card, available in your My Account, will also serve as the vision card. The student will also have access to many other services, such as telehealth benefits and Global Emergency Services. You can find more information about benefits, review the plan materials and rates, search for providers, view prescription drug lists and make your purchase in your My Account or at uhcsr.com/gatech. After you have successfully enrolled, you may enroll your eligible dependents through your My Account. If your enrollment has not yet been finalized, coverage for eligible dependents may be requested here and selecting Notify Me. Once student coverage has been applied you will receive an email notification with additional information on how to enroll and purchase coverage for your eligible dependents. All dependent premiums are paid directly to UnitedHealthcare StudentResources. Eligible dependents include: Domestic partner Spouse Eligible children up to 26 years of age (including stepchildren, foster children, and legally adopted children, providing the student is fully enrolled and eligible for coverage). Waiver Information: Mandatory students who have an existing health insurance coverage that meets/exceeds insurance requirements can receive a waiver. Click here for minimum benefits to waive You must request a waiver during the open enrollment period and the waiver process can take up to 10 days. You must waive in both fall and spring semesters. International Students: This year there is an important change to the waiver requirements for international students. In previous years, international students would have been able to use PGH or another “offshore” plan that doesn’t meet ACA standards to waive out of the Mandatory SHIP category. Starting this year, international students at Georgia Tech cannot waive with PGH or any non-ACA compliant plan. International students must either enroll in the Mandatory SHIP or waive with an ACA-compliant plan. The mandatory student health insurance charge is automatically added to your Georgia Tech student account. Once waived, UHCSR will send a notification to Georgia Tech's Bursar’s Office to remove the charge from your account. If the submitted waiver is approved and the insurance fee has already been paid, the Bursar’s Office will refund the fee. Click here to enroll in or waive Mandatory Plan coverage. Voluntary Plan Students not in the mandatory group and taking at least four credit hours (including Postdoctoral Scholars, J1 Scholars, and OPT) may enroll during the open enrollment period(s). There are two options for voluntary enrollment in Fall: Annual (covers the entire policy year) with one enrollment. OR Fall semester enrollment only, then re-enroll for Spring (includes Summer) semester during the Spring enrollment period (Dec. - Jan.). For the next policy year, all eligible voluntary students must enroll in Fall (the two enrollment options above will be available) to keep continuous coverage from policy year to policy year. Distance learning students are not eligible. In response to Covid-19, students that previously attended in-person classes but will take online classes or a hybrid class schedule in the fall, and taking at least four credit hours, are eligible to enroll in the voluntary plan. J1 Scholars, Postdoctoral Scholars, and OPT should contact Jennifer White to enroll at jennifer.white@health.gatech.edu if enrolling outside of the open enrollment dates. Voluntary group information Voluntary Brochure How to Enroll - Step by Step Guide To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Enrollment Information: Once enrollment is finalized, an email is sent from notifications@uhcsr.com with instructions on how to access the electronic medical ID card through the UHCSR secure portal, My Account. If you do not receive the email, you can access the My Account page here. My Account gives you access to the medical ID card, claims information, customized provider search, cost estimator tools, access to ancillary benefits and more. UHCSR has built a video library to help guide you through the different aspects of their health insurance; you can access it at uhcsr.com/video. Shortly after enrollment is complete, you will receive a dental card in the mail from UHC Dental. The medical ID card, available in your My Account, will also serve as the vision card. The student will also have access to many other services, such as telehealth benefits and Global Emergency Services. You can find more information about benefits, review the plan materials and rates, search for providers, view prescription drug lists and make your purchase in your My Account or at uhcsr.com/gatech. After you have successfully enrolled, you may enroll your eligible dependents through your My Account. If your enrollment has not yet been finalized, coverage for eligible dependents may be requested here and selecting Notify Me. Once student coverage has been applied you will receive an email notification with additional information on how to enroll and purchase coverage for your eligible dependents. All dependent premiums are paid directly to UnitedHealthcare StudentResources. Eligible dependents include: Domestic partner Spouse Eligible children up to 26 years of age (including stepchildren, foster children, and legally adopted children, providing the student is fully enrolled and eligible for coverage). Click here to enroll in Voluntary Plan coverage. 2021-2022 Student Health Insurance Plan Rates Mandatory Voluntary Fall (8/1/2021-12/31/2021) Spring/Summer (1/1/2022-7/31/2022) Annual (8/1/2021-7/31/2022) Fall (8/1/2021-12/31/2021) Spring/Summer (1/1/2022-7/31/2022) Student $1,067.00 $1,479.00 $3,516.56 $1,474.00 $2,043.00 Spouse $1,166.00 $1,615.00 $3,847.99 $1,613.00 $2,235.00 One Child $1,177.00 $1,629.00 $3,874.26 $1,624.00 $2,250.00 Two or More Children $2,292.00 $3,173.00 $7,602.26 $3,186.00 $4,415.00 All Dependents (a.k.a. Spouse & Children) $3,467.00 $4,800.00 $11,471.63 $4,808.00 $6,663.00 Summer I (5/1/2022-7/31/2022) Summer II (6/20/2022-7/31/2022) Mandatory Voluntary Mandatory Voluntary Student $642.00 $887.00 $314.00 $414.00 Spouse $701.00 $970.00 $314.00 $453.00 One Child $707.00 $976.00 $314.00 $456.00 Two or More Children $1,377.00 $1,915.00 $670.00 $895.00 All Dependents (a.k.a. Spouse & Children) $2,083.00 $2,890.00 $1,020.00 $1,351.00 Please Note: Coverage begins August 1, 2021 for one academic year only and all eligible students MUST enroll both in fall and spring semesters for coverage continuation from policy year to policy year. GRA Employer Plan GRA Health Insurance Option The GRA Healthcare Plan Option is a medical plan offered by the University System of Georgia. This option is an alternative to the United HealthCare Student Resources/Student Health Insurance Plan offered through the Institute. Graduate Research Assistants should carefully consider this coverage before enrolling as the GRA Healthcare Plan Option through OneUSG does not meet the federal guidelines for international students holding F-1 or J-1 visas requirements. GTSHS recommends GRAs enroll in the UHCSR/SHIP a more robust plan already assessed to tuition Student Health Insurance FAQ's I am having trouble with the UHCSR enrollment website (can't click a button to proceed or the page freezes). What do I do? Try using Internet Explorer as your web browser as this has helped some students finish the enrollment process. If you still have trouble, please contact jennifer.white@health.gatech.edu. Can I waive with PGH Global insurance? This year there is an important change to the waiver requirements for international students. In previous years, international students would have been able to use PGH or another “offshore” plan that doesn’t meet ACA standards to waive out of the Mandatory SHIP category. Starting this year, international students at Georgia Tech cannot waive with PGH or any non-ACA compliant plan. International students must either enroll in the Mandatory SHIP or waive with an ACA-compliant plan. What is the difference in the “Health Fee” and “Student Health Insurance”? The health fee is a mandatory fee charged on tuition for all students taking 4 or more credit hours per semester (fall, spring, summer). The health fee covers most services at Stamps Health Services and is not health insurance. The Student Health Insurance Plan, available for GT students, provides medical, vision, dental, prescription, and worldwide coverage. What is the difference in “mandatory” and “voluntary” student health insurance? The following groups of students, per the Georgia Board of Regents, are charged for Mandatory Student Health Insurance on their tuition: · All undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in programs that require proof of health insurance as determined by the USG Institution. Currently Georgia Tech only requires Mandatory Health Insurance for graduate students in the CHBE and BMED programs and APPH majors. · All graduate students receiving fellowships that fully fund their tuition as determined by the USG Institution. · All undergraduate, graduate students holding F or J visas. · All graduate students receiving a Tuition Waiver as part of their graduate assistantship award as determined by the USG Institution I fall under the mandatory student health insurance category, but I already have private insurance. Can I waive these fee? Students in the groups above who have an existing health insurance policy that meets/exceeds insurance requirements can receive a waiver. You must request a waiver during the open enrollment/waiver period. Once waived, a notification will be sent to GT Bursar's Office from United Healthcare Student Resources to remove the charge from your Bursar account. The mandatory student health insurance charge is automatically added to tuition and if the submitted waiver is approved and have paid the insurance fee, the GT Bursar's Office will refund the fee. Can I add my spouse and/or child(ren) to my student health insurance plan? Yes, United Healthcare Student Resources allows students to add a spouse and child(ren) to their policy. When can I enroll myself and/or my spouse/child(ren) to my student health insurance plan? During Fall and Spring/Summer open enrollment. If I am a co-op/intern am I eligible to enroll in student health insurance? If the student is in the Georgia Board of Regents mandatory group then the student will be charged on tuition for mandatory insurance. If the student is not in the mandatory group but is taking 4 or more credit hours then the student is eligible for the voluntary plan. Can I use my private health insurance at Stamps Health Services? At this time only the Stamps Health Services Pharmacy files insurance claims for prescriptions. Stamps Health Services does not file insurance claims for medical services rendered other than to the GT Student Health Ins Co. Also, Stamps Health Services is not on any managed care contracts except for the United Healthcare Student Resources plan. Students that do not have the GT Student Health Insurance and incur charges (most services are covered through the student fee) pay at time of service and we provide a statement that students can file to their insurance carrier. I think I am in the mandatory group but I was not charged on tuition – what do I do? You will need to contact the GT Bursar’s Office: 404.894.4618 I filed a waiver and my waiver was approved, but the charge is still on my tuition – what do I do? You will need to contact the GT Bursar’s Office: 404.894.4618 I am a non-employee Postdoctoral Scholar receiving a stipend from a fellowship or training grant. Can I enroll myself and/or my dependents in GT student health insurance offered by United Healthcare? Yes, you may purchase GT student health insurance. From the United Healthcare Student Resources GT enrollment webpage (linked to above), you will select Medical – Voluntary Student Plan policy. In many cases all or part of the premium may be reimbursed by your fellowship – contact your program officer or grants administrator for more information. Connect With Us! Stamps Health Services is committed to providing the best service possible. If you feel we can improve the services in any way, please do not hesitate to contact us. Please contact jennifer.white@health.gatech.edu. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login