Skip to Main Content Brown University Health & Wellness Health Services Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal Search Menu Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Search Health & Wellness Health Services Our Staff Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Our Staff Learn more about Health Services’ clinical and administrative staff members. Clinical Staff Please contact our clinical staff through the Medicat Patient Portal, our secure messaging center. Vanessa Britto, M.D., MSc., FACP (she/her) Associate Vice President for Campus Life and Student Services and Executive Director of Health and Wellness Vanessa Britto, M.D., ’96 M.Sc. (community health), joined Brown in January 2018. Britto is certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine, completed her residency and fellowship in general internal medicine at Rhode Island Hospital and is a fellow in the American College of Physicians. She is currently an assistant professor of medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. As a student life professional and administrator since 2001, Britto has held leadership roles in the field of college health at the local, regional and national levels. Prior to returning to Brown, Britto was formerly the director of health services at Wellesley College. At Brown, Britto oversees the areas of Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), BWell Health Promotion, Student Accessibility Services and Emergency Medical Services, supervising a combined team of more than 200 staff and students. She returned to Brown University to champion a new chapter and a new vision for health and wellness at Brown — continuing in the tradition of innovation and leadership among peers. In her spare time, she can be found reading, traveling, enjoying live music (especially jazz), biking or getting in a round of golf. Adam Pallant, M.D., Ph.D. (he/him) Clinical Director Adam Pallant joined the staff in August 2017. Pallant received his B.A. in biochemistry from Haverford College in Pennsylvania and his M.D. and Ph.D. at the University of Rochester. He completed his specialty training in pediatrics and adolescent medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. He is board-certified by the American Board of Pediatrics. Prior to joining the Health Services team, Pallant had been the pediatric residency director at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and a primary care pediatrician at Hasbro Children's Hospital in Providence for 19 years. He has a special interest in the intersection of mental and physical health. When free, he loves to be outdoors —especially body surfing at the ocean — and, while not a great cook, he's a serious foodie. Tanya Sullivan, DNP, APRN, CNP (she/her) Assistant Clinical Director/Nurse Practitioner Tanya Sullivan joined the staff in January 2019. She has been certified as a family nurse practitioner by the American Nurses Credentialing Center for the past 17 years and is licensed in both Massachusetts and Rhode Island as an advanced practice nurse with prescriptive privileges. She earned her Doctor of Nursing Practice from University of Massachusetts Boston, her Master of Science in Nursing from the MGH Institute of Health Professions and her bachelor’s in psychology from Providence College. Prior to joining Brown University Health Services, she was the associate director of Wellesley College Health Services and also worked in family and adolescent community health. Sullivan’s clinical interest includes supporting students with complex and diverse health and mental health concerns, including eating disorders. She enjoys early-morning running, paddle boarding and anything outdoors with her family. Hung Le, M.D. (he/him) Staff Physician Hung Le joined the staff in August 2021. He received his B.S. in premedical studies and health sciences at the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences in Boston and his M.D. at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. He completed his combined internal medicine-pediatrics residency at Massachusetts General Hospital. Le then went on to complete his subspecialty training in primary care sports medicine and sports medicine ultrasound at Boston Children’s Hospital. He is board-certified in internal medicine and sports medicine. He currently serves on the Committee on Student Health and Sports Medicine of the Massachusetts Medical Society, where he promotes school-based adolescent health education and highlights the intersection of mental health and sports in student athletes. In his spare time, he enjoys spending time with his wife and family, golfing and traveling. Gillian Morris, M.D. (she/her) Staff Physician Gillian Morris joined the staff in July 2018. She earned her Sc.B. in neuroscience from Brown University and her M.D. from Tufts University School of Medicine. She completed her family medicine residency at the Brown University Program in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. She is board-certified by the American Board of Family Medicine. Morris has special interests in the care of gender diverse patients; reproductive health and long-acting reversible contraception; mental and behavioral health; and dermatology. She also enjoys teaching medical students and residents as a clinical instructor of family medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. In her spare time, she loves cooking, exploring new cuisines and vintage shopping. Sheila C. Raimondo, D.O. (she/her) Staff Physician Sheila C. Raimondo joined the staff in February 2011. She earned a B.A. at the College of the Holy Cross and a D.O. at the University of New England, College of Osteopathic Medicine. She completed her residency in family practice at Cranston General Hospital in Rhode Island. She is board-certified by the American College of Osteopathic Family Physicians. Previous affiliations include Health Services at Rhode Island College and Johnson and Wales University and urgent care centers. Heather Aliotta, MSN, APRN, WHNP, ANP-BC (she/her) Adult and Women's Health Nurse Practitioner Heather Aliotta joined the staff in January 2017 and has special interests in women's health and primary care. She earned her B.A. from Brown University concentrating in psychology and health and society. She became a certified nurse practitioner after earning her MSN from the MGH Institute of Health Professions. She is board-certified in advanced practice nursing in women's health by the National Certification Corporation, as an adult nurse practitioner by the American Nurses Credentialing Center, and is certified by the state of Rhode Island as a nurse practitioner with prescription privileges. Her previous affiliation was with Massachusetts General Hospital. She returned to Rhode Island to work as a nurse practitioner in the emergency room at Women & Infants Hospital. She is registered by the state of Rhode Island as a registered nurse practitioner with prescription privileges. She enjoys spending time with her family, visiting the beach, trying new cuisines and reading novels. Valerie Exelby (she/her) Nurse Practitioner Valerie Exelby is board-certified as a family nurse practitioner by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. She started her career working in pediatrics at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. After receiving her master’s degree from Pace University, she worked at a school-based clinic in New York City. Exelby’s professional background includes public health, family practice and behavioral medicine. While working in Colorado, she developed an adjunct young adult clinic to the Community Health Clinic to meet the specific needs of this population. She relocated to Rhode Island in 2020 and has since focused on college health. Exelby joined the team at Brown Health Services in 2021. She values developing a trusting, confidential rapport with students — helping them to make individualized, educated decisions regarding their health. In her spare time, she enjoys most anything by the ocean. Spencer Lynch, APRN, CNP (she/her) Nurse Practitioner Spencer Lynch joined the staff in July 2018. She earned her BSN and her MSN as a family nurse practitioner from Boston College. She is certified in advanced practice nursing as a family nurse practitioner by the American Nurses Credentialing Center and is certified by the state of Rhode Island as a nurse practitioner with prescriptive privileges. Prior to joining Brown University Health Services, she worked as a nurse with patients in acute condition in the Neurology ICU at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. In her spare time, she enjoys running, traveling, hiking with her husband and their dog and going to the beach. Jessica B. Wilder, CNM, WHNP (she/her) Nurse Practitioner Jessica B. Wilder, CNM, WHNP, is a nurse practitioner in Health Services, joining Brown in September 2020. Wilder graduated from Smith College with a B.A. in women's studies and biology, followed by receiving her BSN and M.S. from Columbia University in 2007. While living in New York City, she joined the team at NY Presbyterian Hospital in the maternity unit and worked there for several years. After moving to Rhode Island, she began her career as a certified nurse-midwife with Women's Care, handling full-scope midwifery. Her passion for women's health led her to join Planned Parenthood of Southern New England in 2008 as a full-time nurse practitioner, while also serving on their panel for policies and procedures, and quality improvement. During her free time, she enjoys spending time with her two sons, Jack and Theo, visiting the beach and watching bad reality television. Micayla Zelny (she/her) Nurse Practitioner Micayla Zelny joined the staff in April 2021. She received her B.S. in psychology from The Ohio State University, and her B.S. and M.S. in nursing from the MGH Institute of Health Professions. She is certified in advanced practice nursing as a pediatric nurse practitioner by the Pediatric Nursing Certification Board and is certified by the state of Rhode Island as a nurse practitioner with prescriptive privileges. As a nurse, Zelny has worked in a variety of inpatient and outpatient settings, as well as in a field hospital during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. In her free time, she enjoys baking, hiking with her puppy and fiancé and finding (and frequenting) the best ice cream shops in town. Tracy Bergeron, RDN, CSSD, LDN (she/her) Dietitian Tracy Bergeron joined the Health Services staff in January 2015. She earned her B.S. in nutrition and dietetics from the University of Vermont and completed her dietetic internship at the University of Rhode Island. As a board-certified specialist in sports dietetics, Bergeron works with many of the teams and student-athletes at Brown. Prior to starting at Brown, she was senior pediatric dietitian at Hasbro Children's Hospital in Providence where she specialized in the treatment of eating disorders of all types. Outside of work, she enjoys spending time with her two young children. Administrative Staff Christine Benvie MSN, RN Director of Nursing christine_benvie@brown.edu 401-863-3953 Christine Farland, MHA, BSN, RN Assistant Director of Operations and Administration christine_farland@brown.edu 401-863-3953 Kristie Sullivan, M.H.A., R.N. Associate Director of Health and Wellness Kristie_Sullivan@Brown.edu 401-863-7880 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Services Appointments Health Requirements New Undergraduate Students New Graduate Students New Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions Request Medical Records Fees & Insurance Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) About Contact Us Our Staff Confidentiality & Privacy Patient Bill of Rights & Responsibilities Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Parents & Families Patient Portal This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Our Staff Open details for Our Staff Bookmark this Page