Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines How to Upload COVID-19 Vaccine Documentation How to Upload COVID-19 Vaccine Documentation February 16, 2022 Not yet eligible for a COVID-19 Booster? Students No action required until eligible. Please upload documentation within 31 days of your eligibility date. Employees You must indicate that you are not yet eligible on the app. Please select the following checkbox under Booster Information section: I am not yet eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine booster dose due to the date of my last vaccination. Please note: you will be required to upload your booster documentation within 31 days after becoming eligible. Please read the PDF instructions or watch the video below for step-by-step instructions on how to provide documentation of your COVID-19 vaccine. Navigate to the Upload Immunization Files under the Medical Clearances section of the Patient Portal to get started. Part One Enter the dates of your dose/s, including your booster. Part Two Upload a copy of your vaccine record in order to complete the vaccine requirement. Lack of or incomplete documentation will result in processing and compliance delays. Be sure your uploaded document contains the following information: Date of Dose One Date of Dose Two (if a 2-dose vaccine) Date of Booster Dose Name of vaccine received for each dose Organization or provider administering each dose All documentation must be submitted in English or accompanied by a certified translation (at the employee’s or student’s expense). Verification of documentation is at the sole discretion of Columbia University. Additional information or documentation may be requested and if requested must be provided in order to verify a submission. How to Upload COVID-19 Vaccine Documentation (Morningside and Manhattanville Students) COVID Vaccine Upload Instructions Mar 2022.pdf199.37 KB Document Categories Forms Document Topics Immunization Compliance COVID-19 Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close