Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Coronavirus Covid-19 Health Information Well-Being During the Covid-19 Pandemic Healthcare Updates For the most up-to-date benefits information, including Covid-19 treatment, life/disability insurance, and the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), please visit USG Coronavirus Disease Benefits Updates. Student Healthcare Covid-19 Testing Currently enrolled students and postdocs on the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) can get tested for free at Stamps Health Services. Please see Covid-19 Testing at Stamps for more information. Free Covid-19 testing is also available at several locations across campus. Please see Covid-19 Testing Locations and Hours for more information. Health Services Stamps Health Services offers students in-person and virtual appointments. Stamps provides a separate treatment and waiting space for patients having symptoms associated with Covid-19 and uses telemedicine when appropriate. In alignment with guidance for healthcare facilities, masks will continue to be required for both staff and visitors. Student Health Insurance Plan For the most recent student healthcare benefits information, including mandatory and voluntary plans, please visit Student Health Insurance Plan. Well-Being Student Mental Health and Well-Being Students in Crisis Students experiencing a crisis that requires immediate attention may speak with a counselor at any time 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Get help now. CARE The Center for Assessment, Referral, and Education (CARE) is available to serve students with both in-person and virtual health appointments. The center follows all recommended CDC guidelines. For more information, please visit the CARE website. Counseling Center Staff are available for both virtual and in-person appointments. For the most up-to-date information about counseling options, please visit the Counseling Center website. Employee Well-Being and Work/Life Balance Kepro Employee Assistance Plan (EAP) Tips for coping with feelings or emotions you may be experiencing related to the Covid-19 outbreak are available through the EAP. Employees and their families can request confidential, no-cost services at 844.243.4440. Working Parent Resources The Office of Human Resources website, Work Life Resources for Families, provides a collection of resources to provide assistance in various areas of life. Financial/Market Volatility Concerns USG has partnered with CAPTRUST to provide Retirement and Financial Advisory Services to USG employees. CAPTRUST offers a no-cost advice line for all benefited employees, and representatives are available to answer employees’ questions and concerns about the market. Schedule an appointment 1.800.967.9948 or captrustadvice.com. Representatives are available Monday – Thursday, 8:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m. Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login