Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences About the College of Health Sciences https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ About the College About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College of Health Sciences The Oxley College of Health Sciences was initiated in 2015, bringing together programs in the School of Nursing, Department of Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences, and Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders. Our Vision To be recognized as a global leader in academic excellence, health care professional preparation and health-related research Our Mission The Oxley College of Health Sciences prepares current and future health professionals to recognize and address complex problems across diverse populations, using interprofessional evidence-based approaches while advancing scientific knowledge and serving the health-related needs of the community. Our Values Advocacy – support health related and social justice issues locally, regionally, and nationally Cultural humility – demonstrate ongoing self-reflection to better understand cultural differences Diversity, Equity, Inclusivity – ensure all persons have fair, equitable, and appropriate opportunities and resources Ethical Practice – demonstrate moral conduct and behavior, competence, and skills appropriate for the profession and professional standards Human Dignity – show respect for each person and the person’s individuality Scholarship – promote scientific literacy to facilitate the discovery of new knowledge, integration of existing knowledge, and the application of interprofessional and evidence-based practice. The college is housed in the Oxley Health Sciences Facility in downtown Tulsa. The college has 50,000 square feet in a building that was completely renovated in 2015. The space includes offices for college administrators, staff, and faculty, six high tech classrooms, a computer classroom, student lounge, the Lawson Family Simulation Center, skills labs for the athletic training, exercise & sports science, and nursing programs, a research lab, and the Hurricane Health multi-disciplinary clinic. Academic programs within The University Tulsa Oxley College of Health Sciences include undergraduate programs in Nursing, Speech Pathology, Exercise and Sports Science, as well as master’s level programs in Speech Pathology and Athletic Training, a Doctor of Nursing Practice program, and a certificate in Health Care Delivery Sciences. In spring/summer 2020, all OCHS graduate students who took their respective certification/licensure exams achieved a 100% pass rate; this includes students who graduated in the spring and summer. The College is the sponsor of Oklahoma’s only Albert Schweitzer Fellowship program. Several faculty members within the College are full-time neuroscience researchers at the Laureate Institute for Brain Research, sponsored and led by the William K. Warren Foundation. Faculty within the college also teach in the OU-TU School of Community Medicine. Undergraduate Programs If you have any questions or if you would like additional information regarding our undergraduate health science programs, please contact: Bill Buron – BSN Nursing Program Eric Wickel – Exercise and Sports Science Program Julie Hyland – Communication Sciences & Disorders / Speech Pathology Ready to apply? Start here. Graduate Programs For information regarding the graduate health science programs, please contact: Rachel Hildebrand – Athletic Training Program Suzanne Thompson Stanton – Communication Sciences & Disorders / Speech Pathology Sheryl Stansifer – DNP-Family Nurse Practitioner Andrea Wall – DNP-Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Lisa Riedel – DNP-Nurse Anesthesia Sheryl Stansifer – MSN-DNP Completion Jeff Alderman – Health Care Delivery Sciences Certificate Ready to apply? Start here. Faculty Initiatives The University of Tulsa announced recipients for its new Chapman Professorship award, established to promote student learning and faculty enrichment across campus. A total of 38 full-time resident faculty members from all five of TU’s colleges received the $5,000 grants made possible by the Chapman Trust Funds. They will be recognized as Chapman Professors for the 2019-20 academic year and have the potential to renew their awards for up to three years. Read more about how the Oxley College of Health Sciences Chapman Professors will use their awards. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT