Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home News Most Columbia Health Services Move to Virtual Delivery Most Columbia Health Services Move to Virtual Delivery By Columbia Health March 15, 2020 Consistent with public health measures to minimize the spread of the coronavirus, and to protect providers and students, most units in Columbia Health will move to a virtual service delivery model (phone/Zoom). The following units are providing services as detailed on their respective pages. *Jump to Letters to facilitate travel refunds Alice! Health Promotion Alice! Health promotion offers virtual health education appointments to help connect students with information and resources to make informed decisions about a broad range of health related topics. For students seeking assistance with examining their drinking and other drug-use behavior in a judgement-free environment, Alice! offers virtual BASICS appointments by self, soft, and mandated referrals. Hours of operation are Monday – Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM. Call 212-854-5453 or email [email protected] to access these services. Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) GHAP is available to support students with any sexual health-related concerns through virtual individual one to one sessions Monday – Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM. Call 212-854-6655 or email [email protected] to access this service. Visit Go Ask Alice! Columbia’s award-winning health Q&A online resource to find reliable, accurate, and accessible health information to help you make informed decisions concerning your health and well-being. Alice! is developing a variety of open virtual workshops and trainings to support students in prioritizing their health and well-being while navigating a remote learning and community environment. Counseling & Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) offers virtual individual counseling and medication management for all students enrolled in Columbia Health, as well as assistance with referrals to local resources. These services enjoy the same privacy protections as face-to-face counseling. Hours of operation are Monday – Thursday, 8:30 AM to 7:00 PM and Fridays 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM. Call 212-854-2878 to access services. After-hours crisis intervention is available at all other times. CPS is developing a variety of nonconfidential virtual community supports. Already in place is a forum for seniors in CC, SEAS and GS and a virtual Trans and Queer Self & Community Care Space. Disability Services Disability Services offers virtual support for academic and housing accommodations for students with various types of disabilities including but not limited to physical, hearing, visual, learning, psychological, and chronic medical conditions. Accommodations include exam accommodations, e-text, notetaking, learning specialist sessions, CART, and captioning. Students must register with Disability Services to receive accommodations and support services. Hours of operation are Monday – Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM. Email [email protected] or call 212-854-2388 to access these services. Medical Services Medical Services offers limited on-site and virtual routine and urgent acute medical care, immunizations, as well as general nutrition and eating disorders, sexual health services, reproductive and gynecological services, LGBTQ health care, and guidance on confidential HIV testing. Hours of operation are Monday – Friday, 9:00 AM – 4:30 PM. Call 212-854-7426 to make a same-day appointment. Walk-ins will not be accepted. All students are required to call 212-854-7426 in advance before visiting, including those with pre-scheduled routine appointments. Letters to facilitate travel refunds Columbia Health is unable to issue letters on behalf of students seeking travel refunds due to cancelled or postponed travel due to the COVID-19 outbreak, unless the cancellation was due to you being diagnosed by Columbia Health with COVID-19. If this is University-related travel, please contact your school or program to assist with securing a letter. For personal travel, please contact the travel provider to discuss options they are offering in response to the crisis. Sexual Violence Response Sexual Violence Response (SVR) offers virtual trauma-informed, confidential support through crisis counseling/intervention, advocacy, prevention, and outreach. Hours of operation are Monday – Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM. To make an appointment or to reach SVR staff during regular business hours, please call 212-854-3500 or email [email protected]. SVR Advocates are available 24/7 year-round via the Sexual Violence Response Helpline. Call 212-854-HELP/4357 to speak with an Advocate. Students may also call the helpline 24/7 for crisis intervention, options for reporting, seeking medical help, and safety planning. To request an online workshop or training please click here to complete and submit a request form. Faculty and staff can request training by sending an email to [email protected] Student Health Insurance Office The Student Health Insurance Office offers virtual support to help students access affordable healthcare services by guiding them through insurance selection/enrollment, maximizing their benefits, verifying referrals for off-campus care, and providing support during the claims process. Hours of operation are Monday – Friday, 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM. Email [email protected] to access these services. Students with already scheduled appointments will be contacted regarding the move to primarily virtual appointments. Those scheduling appointments will be provided details on how future appointments will be facilitated by phone or other virtual means. If you have questions regarding COVID-19, please use the following resources: For clinical questions, including symptoms, please call the hotline on 212-854-9355. For informational questions, please email us at [email protected] or call the hotline on 212-854-9355 (Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm EDT). For community updates, visit the Columbia COVID-19 website. We know this is an uncertain time and appreciate your understanding as we modify our service delivery methods in the interest of public health. We also encourage you to take advantage of the online tools available regarding coping as well as the Go Ask Alice! Health Q&A resource. News May 23, 2022 Commencement Honors for Columbia Health SVP, Dr. Melanie Bernitz April 25, 2022 Columbia Health Releases its 2020-21 Annual Report April 25, 2022 Dr. Michael McNeil, Chief of Administration for Columbia Health, included in Inside HigherEd article March 21, 2022 Our opposition to ongoing efforts to harm the lives and well-being of trans and queer people March 16, 2022 Making decisions about your well-being amid changing COVID-19 public health guidance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close