Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home For Students Health Fee The health fee provides the opportunity to receive quality, multi-disciplinary healthcare, wellness and health maintenance within a few steps of campus classes. All GT students and their spouses/partners may use health services. Students taking 4 or more credit hours pay a health fee each semester. Students taking less than 4 credit hours and all students' spouses and domestic partners may elect to pay the health fee or choose to use the health services on a fee-for-service basis. Note: The student is responsible for charges associated with their spouse or domestic partner. Charges incurred, and not paid at the time of service, will be uploaded to the student bursar account. Also, the health fee is not insurance and cannot be waived. Student Spouse/Domestic Partner Summer 2021 Student$115 Spouse/Domestic Partner$115 Fall 2021 Student$172 Spouse/Domestic Partner$172 Spring 2022 Student$172 Spouse/Domestic Partner$172 Effective January 1, 2018: Affiliate Postdoctoral Scholars, J1 Scholars, and Option Practical Training (OPT) participants are eligible to use services of Stamps Health Services Pharmacy and Tech Dentistry at Stamps Health Services. Need Assistance? Call us at (404) 894-1420 Schedule an appointment online Refill a prescription online Use our online support form After Hours Sign up for the Health Initiatives monthly newsletter here. Visit the contact page Coverage The Health Fee covers unlimited visits to a clinician in Primary Care and Women’s Health. Limited visits to Psychiatry. Other services include: X-ray/interpretation by radiologist Consultations with a pharmacist EKG Travel Clinic consultations Flu shots Some lab tests Pregnancy testing Health Promotion services Blood pressure screening STD Testing The health fee allows the following services to be offered at a low cost: Psychiatry Clinic Laboratory testing Allergy Clinic Prescriptions HIV testing Gynecological testing Medical/orthopedic supplies Nutrition consultations Fee-for-Service Fee-for Service Students taking less than 4 credit hours and all students' spouses and domestic partners may elect to pay on a fee-for-service basis. Charges are incurred for all services rendered at a reduced cost. Students cannot use the online appointment system and appointments must be made in person or over the phone. The following are special circumstances in which fee-for service applies: Non-registered students eligible to return within one semester. Graduating students (student only) for one term post-graduation. Other Services Provided Allergy: With payment of the health fee, allergy injections are available for an additional fee of $100 per semester for fall and spring and $70 for summer semester. With fee-for-service, allergy injections are available but charges are incurred at each visit. Immunizations and Travel: With payment of the health fee, immunization and travel appointments are included but charges are incurred for the vaccines. With fee-for-service, immunization and travel appointments incur a charge at each visit as well as charges for the vaccines. Payment Most services rendered at Stamps Health Services are at no additional charge. However, some lab tests, specialty clinic visits and prescriptions have an additional charge. Please check with our staff if you have questions about the cost of your care. Payment for service is due at time of service. Types of payment accepted: BuzzCard Credit Cards American Express MasterCard Visa Discover Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login