Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > About > Office of the Dean Office of the Dean https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ About the College About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College of Health Sciences On May 1, 2017, Robin Ploeger was named dean of The University of Tulsa’s Oxley College of Health Sciences. She served as the college’s interim dean since November, 2016 when inaugural Dean Gerard Clancy was named president of the university. Ploeger was appointed to TU’s Athletic Training faculty in 1995 and was named director of the program in 2002. She served in that capacity until 2015, when she was named associate dean of the new college. She has served the athletic training professional association in various committees associated with athletic training students and accreditation. Ploeger has served as chair of the National Athletic Training Student Committee and mentor to the NATA Athletic Training Students’ Committee. She is a site visitor for the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) and served as the chair of the Site Visit Committee from 2014 to 2016. She is also a peer reviewer for the HLC. Contact Office of the Dean Oxley Health Sciences Facility #510 Office Hours: 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Monday – Friday Robin Ploeger Dean Oxley Health Sciences Facility, #511 918-631-3170 robin-ploeger@utulsa.edu Ron Walker Associate Dean Oxley Health Sciences Facility, #504 918-631-3240 ron-walker@utulsa.edu Veronica Goss Administrative Associate – Dean’s Office Oxley Health Sciences Facility, #510 918-631-2619 veronica-goss@utulsa.edu Gosia Bodurka Scholarship Development Officer Oxley Health Sciences Facility, #508 918-631-2612 gosia-bodurka@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT