Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search Testing Positive Last Updated: January 12, 2022 On this page, you will find information on what to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19. Important Faculty, staff, postdocs, and students must notify Stanford via Health Check when they: Experience COVID-like symptoms Are a close contact to someone who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 (the COVID-19 virus) Are awaiting COVID-19 test results, due to exposure or symptoms Test positive for SARS-CoV-2 (the COVID-19 virus) Note: This is required when on campus within the previous two weeks or if expected to be on campus. Positive case reporting Faculty, staff, postdocs, and students are required to notify Stanford, via Health Check, if they test positive for SARS-CoV-2 (the COVID-19 virus). This requirement is in place for those who were on campus within the previous two weeks or are expected to be on campus. When completing Health Check, please report your last date on campus, buildings visited, potential high-risk close contacts and date of contact, as well as your test and symptom information. Although the Health Check medical response team is automatically notified of positive tests conducted through the university’s Color testing programs, your Health Check submissions will assist with our case response. Health Check will generate an initial recommended period of isolation and additionally notify the medical response team of your submission, who will review and adjust this date accordingly. When a student tests positive, a similar process is initiated by Vaden Health Services. For details, visit COVID-19 Guidance for Students. Close contact information Please notify your close contacts if you test positive. For information on what steps a close contact should take, please review this guidance posted on HealthAlerts. High numbers of cases can limit the capacity for local public health authorities, and the Stanford medical response teams, to provide individual follow-up to each contact. In general, close contacts should test 3 days after their potential infectious exposure, and again at day 5-6, or earlier if symptoms develop. Repeat or follow-up testing: Color and PCR Both Color (LAMP) and SHC (PCR) testing are nucleic acid amplification tests and are very sensitive and accurate. Nucleic acid amplification tests, like Color and PCR, can detect viral remnants days to weeks and sometimes even months after a COVID infection. Test reporting does not differentiate between infectious virus and non-infectious viral fragments, which is why these tests can remain positive, intermittently, for extended periods. Please treat a positive Color or PCR test as real and take steps to isolate yourself from others. Once you have received a positive COVID test, you are exempt from surveillance testing requirements for 90-days. Do not submit a Color or PCR test within 90 days, unless otherwise directed by a member of the Health Check Team or your personal care provider. Repeat or follow-up testing: Rapid testing False positives on rapid tests are unlikely. Please treat a positive rapid test as real and take steps to isolate yourself from others. Two of the better studied rapid tests for Omicron detection include BinaxNow and Flowflex. That noted, some rapid tests can be difficult to read, where a faint pink line can be visible under certain light. If you have no symptoms and no known exposure, and you see a very faint ‘positive’ line, you may consider repeating the rapid test, versus obtaining a Color/PCR test. Once you have received a positive COVID test, you are exempt from surveillance testing requirements for 90-days. Isolating after a positive test After 10 days of isolation, you do not need a negative test to return to work or to campus. Current isolation guidelines recommended by the County of Santa Clara and California Department of Public Health are time-based and permit ending home isolation after day 10 following a positive COVID test or clear onset of symptoms. A negative test is required only if returning prior to this time. The role of rapid testing to shorten the period of isolation For students: Undergraduate and graduate students should read the guidance found here about testing at Day 7. For faculty and staff, and postdocs: Faculty, staff, and postdocs may qualify for earlier return to campus on day 7 following a positive test/symptom onset, if they meet the following criteria: Fully vaccinated Fever-free for 48 hours and with improving symptoms An employee whose job requires an on-site presence Rapid-tested* negative on day 7 *Faculty, staff, and postdocs who meet the criteria above AND who have a critical need to return to campus prior to the end of their 10-day isolation period, may contact the Medical Support Team at employeecovidclearance@stanford.edu with questions about obtaining rapid antigen tests. Faculty and staff, and postdocs who meet the criteria above must email employeecovidclearance@stanford.edu to request early onsite access. For Active SHC Clinicians: Please adhere to the updated recommendations for healthcare workers at Stanford HealthCare. You should contact HRT at 650-497-9595 both to report your positive test as well as determine your return-to-work timeframe. Please also closely monitor the frequently updated StanfordMed Pulse and CMO Message emails for the latest details about testing, quarantine, and isolation protocols, as they may change frequently. Additional information COVID Testing For information about Stanford’s COVID-19 surveillance testing programs, refer to these webpages: COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID-19 surveillance testing for graduate students COVID-19 surveillance testing for undergraduate students COVID Symptoms For information on what to do if you are experiencing any symptoms, please review this guidance posted on HealthAlerts. COVID Exposure For information on what to do if you have been exposed to someone with COVID, please review this guidance posted on HealthAlerts. Stanford University Medical Support Team (For Faculty, staff, and postdocs) Please note that both Health Check and the linked pages above should provide the most rapidly accessible guidance on COVID-related inquiries. For specific questions on your situation, you can also submit a Health Check Help Ticket or contact the Stanford University Occupational Health Center. Stanford University Medical Support Team (For Students) Please review the Vaden Health Center and Student Affairs websites for information on student support during the COVID-19 outbreak. See also Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations Rapid Antigen Tests COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Prevention & self-care Campus hygiene Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Mandatory self-reporting to Stanford Let Stanford know if you are awaiting test results or have tested COVID-positive, or if you are sick with certain COVID-19 symptoms. Learn how to self-report Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.