About MBA Business Bridge Faculty & Research News Tuck School of Business Tuck School of Business Center for Health Care About Center FAQ Mission & Vision People Center Activity Courses & Electives Programs Experiential Learning Student Groups Joint Degree Programs Health Care at Dartmouth News & Research Center News Research In the Media Events Get Involved Students Alumni About Center FAQ Mission & Vision People Center Activity Courses & Electives Programs Experiential Learning Student Groups Joint Degree Programs Health Care at Dartmouth News & Research Center News Research In the Media Events Get Involved Students Alumni About MBA Business Bridge Faculty & Research News Home Mission Vision The Center for Health Care serves as the hub for health care at Tuck. Together with students, faculty, staff, and alumni the Center creates learning opportunities and fosters connections for members of the Tuck community interested in the business of health care. The Center’s faculty offer health care elective courses, lead the MD/MBA and MBA/MPH joint degree programs, and sponsor independent studies related to health care. Working closely with practitioners and experts across health care, the Center offers co-curricular, experiential learning, and career exploration opportunities for students to deepen their knowledge and network in health care. What are Centers at Tuck? The six Centers at Tuck forge pathways of learning and application for our MBA students. Centers provide a diverse set of experiences, opportunities, engagement, and experiential learning both on and off campus through a suite of courses, programs, and offerings with faculty, staff, practitioners, alumni, and community members. While there are six individual Centers, our cross-center opportunities and collaboration provide even more ways to engage across many of our programs. Program Spotlight The Health Care Fellows program provides a forum for select second year students to work closely with the Center to further their own understanding and to contribute to building the health care experience at Tuck. Collaborating with the Center, fellows take a leadership role in their own learning and that of their peers. Learn more about the Fellows Program Find Us on Slack For the latest updates and news from the Center for Health Care, current Tuck students are encouraged to find us on Slack. Sign in to Slack The Center at a Glance Events The center hosts a variety of speakers and events throughout the year. Programs Our center programs encourage deep engagement in health care. Courses & Electives Tuck’s health care curriculum is flexible to meet students’ interest for in-depth study or introduction to the business of health care. Center News News from and about the Center for Health Care. Student Stories Tuck students have varied interests in health care and can personalize their Tuck experience. CONTACT US 603-646-9285 Send us an email Join our mailing list Center for Health Care Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Back to Top Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.