Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences » Academics » Kinesiology Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Undergrad Program Pre-Therapy and Allied Health Advising Guides for Professional Kinesiology Career Preparation Exercise physiology minor Graduate program Master's Degree Program Doctoral Degree Program How to apply Adapted Physical Activity Master's Grant Doctoral Grant Topics of Recent Research Resources for Parents and Graduate Students Go Baby Go IMPACT IMPACT Spring 2022 Programing IMPACT for Life KIN Faculty Kin Labs Undergrad Program Pre-Therapy and Allied Health Advising Guides for Professional Kinesiology Career Preparation Exercise physiology minor Graduate program Master's Degree Program Doctoral Degree Program How to apply Adapted Physical Activity Master's Grant Doctoral Grant Topics of Recent Research Resources for Parents and Graduate Students Go Baby Go IMPACT IMPACT Spring 2022 Programing IMPACT for Life KIN Faculty Kin Labs Kinesiology Undergraduate Program Kinesiology Undergraduate Program Study kinesiology to help others thrive. Corvallis Ecampus Bend Plan a visit How to apply The study of movement In the kinesiology major, you’ll study physical activity and exercise science and their effect on human health, disease prevention and quality of life. Help people gain confidence and strength as a personal trainer or physical education teacher. Bring comfort and care to others as a nurse. Earning a bachelor of science degree in kinesiology from Oregon State creates opportunities to improve lives — in health care, the fitness industry and more. Request info Loading... Sample kinesiology courses Adapted physical activity Biomechanics of human movement Exercise physiology Psychology of sport and physical activity Resistance training program design Injury management for the physically active Explore required courses. As a kinesiology major at Oregon State, you’ll... Study chemistry, anatomy, physiology, nutrition and public health. Be prepared for certifications and advanced degrees in fitness and conditioning — including ACSM, NSCA, graduate study in kinesiology and related fields. OSU's kinesiology program is ranked 3rd in the far western U.S. Kinesiology degree options Get on the path to become a medical professional or take your studies 100% online with top ranked OSU Ecampus. Pre-therapy and allied health Kinesiology online Kinesiology internships Internships are integrated into your kinesiology coursework so you can be prepared for a full-time position upon graduation. Examples of internship types: Athletic training Coaching Personal training Physical education Physical therapy Program management Research Learn more Hallie Baker When kinesiology student Hallie Baker stepped out of her comfort zone, she figured out the direction for her future – nursing school and teaching the importance of wellness. Read more From kinesiology to medical school Earn a bachelor’s degree in kinesiology while setting yourself up for success in medical school. Explore pre-med options What will you do with a kinesiology degree? According to the U.S. Department of Labor, fitness and coaching jobs are expected to grow at 10-13% and allied health care jobs at 15-37% from 2016-2026. Start as a kinesiology major and become: *May require post-baccalaureate/graduate/professional education or additional certifications/credentials to qualify for employment. Adapted physical education teacher* Athletic trainer* Clinical exercise physiologist* Fitness instructor Exercise physiologists * Fitness entrepreneur Fitness program director Nurse* Occupational therapist* Personal trainer Physical education teacher* Physical therapist* Physical therapist assistant Physician* Physician assistant* Research and education* Strength coach Strength physiologist* Wellness/prevention program coordinator Kyle Miller, ‘19 Currently attending the Vanderbilt University School of Nursing "I chose to major in kinesiology because it has a very wide range of nursing prerequisites and I was also interested in exercise and movement. It was the best of both worlds." We're here to help Email Chad, our college guide, for questions about the application process and requirements. If you have questions regarding classes, student clubs or campus, our peer advisors would love to chat. Call or email them for advice. How to transfer Change your major Minors and certificates Join a student club Talk to our campus guide 541-737-7205 Pre-Therapy and Allied Health Advising Guides for Professional Kinesiology Career Preparation Exercise physiology minor ‹ Kinesiology up Pre-Therapy and Allied Health › Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram