Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford Last modified on April 4, 2022 Important As of April 4, 2022, Stanford has aligned event guidance with the California Department of Public Health guidance for Mega Events. Mega Events are currently defined as indoor events with 1,000 or more attendees, or outdoor events with 10,000 or more attendees. CDPH strongly recommends that indoor mega events verify vaccination and testing documentation. CDPH also recommends that outdoor mega events verify vaccination or testing documentation. If you are hosting a Mega Event and would like to conduct vaccination and testing documentation verification, please contact the eventsafetyteam@stanford.edu for guidance. Events should not set requirements separate from or more restrictive than university requirements (e.g. non-Mega Event events requiring vaccination/test verification). Student events have separate guidelines set by Student Affairs, click here for more information Guidance for Events and Gatherings Use the following guidance when planning your event or gathering: Event organizers are responsible for staying up to date on current event guidance, implementing guidance as recommended, and maintaining strong communication with attendees. Events that do not meet Mega Event criteria should avoid conducting verification of vaccination or negative tests. Mega Events should follow CDPH Mega Event recommendations. Social / morale events for staff are permitted. Off campus events for faculty/staff/units are permissible and may be reimbursed. Events may be held indoors or outdoors. A defined attendee list is encouraged. Staff and student attendees must complete the HealthCheck and COVID-19 testing requirements, where applicable. Attendees must follow all face covering requirements. See Health Alerts for the most up to date policies. All forms of food service are allowed. This includes, but is not limited to, buffets, self-service, potluck style, passed trays, served appetizers, open bars, beverage stations, standing and seated dining, in addition to individually boxed/prepackaged or plated food and drinks. Food and drink, with the exception of water, are not allowed in Registrar Office Classrooms. Information on Food Trucks and the Food Truck schedule can be found here. Use 25Live or MedScheduler (School of Medicine) or contact the appropriate office for reserving a space on campus. Conditional approval of your event does not guarantee a space, so please coordinate with the appropriate facility scheduler to ensure a space is available. Some indoor spaces on campus might be unavailable for general use. Discuss AV Support, tables, chairs, and other event needs with Events Services. See also Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations Rapid Antigen Tests COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Prevention & self-care Campus hygiene Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Mandatory self-reporting to Stanford Let Stanford know if you are awaiting test results or have tested COVID-positive, or if you are sick with certain COVID-19 symptoms. Learn how to self-report Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.