Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Communication Sciences & Disorders Research Exploring communication partners Experiential learning Dynamic duo organizes 24th-annual Route 66 conference > Communication Sciences & Disorders > Communication Sciences & Disorders https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ COMMUNICATIONS SCIENCES & DISORDERS Communication Sciences & Disorders Undergraduate Programs Communication Sciences & Disorders Graduate Programs Student Achievement Data Speech & Hearing Clinic Annual Route 66 Conference Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Professionals in the field of communication disorders evaluate, treat and conduct research into human communication and swallowing disorders. These disorders result from causes such as stroke, brain injury, hearing loss, developmental delay, cleft palate, cerebral palsy or emotional problems. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of speech-language pathologists is projected to grow 19 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. As the baby boomer population ages, the need for professionals who can address speech and language impairments is expected to increase. Undergraduate students follow a sequence of basic science and pre-professional courses during their undergraduate study and participate in a clinical practicum at the onsite speech, language and hearing clinic during their senior year. This degree prepares undergraduate majors to apply for either a master’s program in speech-language pathology or a doctorate in audiology (AuD). Students who complete both their undergraduate and graduate degrees in speech-language pathology at The University of Tulsa will have the academic and clinical practicum requirements for Oklahoma state licensure, Oklahoma school certification and certification by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA). Program Objectives Bachelor of Science The following Program Learning Outcomes are outlined for undergraduate majors in Communication Sciences and Disorders; specifically, the student will demonstrate: Knowledge of normal processes in the development of speech and language comprehension and production. Knowledge of communication and swallowing disorders Knowledge of clinical methods, clinical skills and ethics related to intervention with clients who are diagnosed with communication and swallowing disorders Degree Options Speech-language Pathology, B.S.S.P. Prepares students for graduate study since the master’s degree is the entry level into the profession. Speech-language Pathology Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about speech-language are encouraged to add it as a minor. Early Intervention Minor An interdisciplinary minor for students who plan to work with young children with special needs and their families. It is recommended for, but not limited to, students in communication disorders, education, nursing, and psychology. Undergraduate Admission/Retention Students qualifying for admission to the university are admissible to the undergraduate program in communication sciences and disorders. Retention requires majors to earn at least a grade of C in all program courses taken. Courses may be repeated, if necessary, to meet this requirement. Students with less than a 3.0 grade point average in speech-language pathology courses will enroll in clinical practicum if recommended by faculty. Failure to pass the practicum course will result in non-recommendation for graduate study in speech-language pathology study. Admission to the master’s program in speech-language pathology at The University of Tulsa is not guaranteed to undergraduate majors. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT