Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences » Office of Physical Activity and Health Programs » Faculty Staff Fitness Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Faculty Staff Fitness Giving Bill Winkler 1933-2016 Classes Registration Class Descriptions Schedule Fall Winter Spring Summer Policies and Procedures COVID Class Guidance and Policies Faculty Staff Fitness Testimonials Participant Comments Events TRY-Athlon Awards Picnic Adult Learn to Swim RECHARGE Wellness Challenge Resources Instructor Resources Nutrition Consults Online FSF Adaptive Exercise Clinic Faculty Staff Fitness Giving Bill Winkler 1933-2016 Classes Registration Class Descriptions Schedule Fall Winter Spring Summer Policies and Procedures COVID Class Guidance and Policies Faculty Staff Fitness Testimonials Participant Comments Events TRY-Athlon Awards Picnic Adult Learn to Swim RECHARGE Wellness Challenge Resources Instructor Resources Nutrition Consults Online FSF Adaptive Exercise Clinic Faculty Staff Fitness Sound minds. Sound bodies. We provide a year-round opportunity to focus on fitness, embrace wellness, make connections, enjoy easy accessibility and earn the long-term rewards of leading an active lifestyle. Classes Events Resources Hello and thank you to all who have supported Faculty Staff Fitness! We are proud to have continually served you for over 35 years. We understand there are many unknowns out there. Here is how we are planning to serve you: We are offering online Faculty Staff Fitness programming as a permanent option on our schedule each term. FSF will be running in person classes according to OSU's schedule. We will hold on campus classes with social distancing measures, cleaning protocols, a vaccination requirement, and will follow OSU's safety guidelines. See our in person class schedule. Juggling a job and family can sometimes make activities like working out seem like a chore. But Oregon State University’s one-of-a-kind Faculty Staff Fitness program makes working out fun – and convenient – for everyone. Housed in the College of Public Health and Human Sciences, the Faculty Staff Fitness program is designed to accommodate everyone — from beginners to the highly trained. It provides a year-round opportunity to focus on fitness, embrace wellness, make connections, enjoy easy accessibility and earn the long-term rewards of leading an active lifestyle. To find out more about the Faculty Staff Fitness program read Get fit at work through Faculty Staff Fitness. Eligibility Who is eligible to participate in FSF programming Faculty Staff GTAs/GRAs Spouse/Partners of faculty/staff Retired OSU staff/faculty Affiliates of the university Retiring? Are you currently involved in FSF but retiring soon? Congratulations! Make sure to send us an e-mail at FSF before your last day so we can update your account to your personal e-mail before you lose access to your @oregonstate.edu e-mail address. Facebook Like our Facebook page for program updates. Announcements Current Office Hours: 8:00 a.m.-1:30 p.m. and 2:30-5:00 p.m. in Langton 123. Please contact us via email at PAC.FSF@oregonstate.edu or by voice message at 541-737-3222. Thank you. Annual Registration: All registrations will be term-by-term and not on an annual basis. We have not been allowing discounts for annual registration for a while. Policy Updates effective 9/1/2017 can be found on our policy page. Call for FSF Award Nominations- Is there an FSF Instructor or Participant you want to recognize for doing an outstanding job? If so, please nominate them for an FSF award here, or stop by the bulletin board outside the office to pick up a paper nomination form. Contributors Thank you to our contributors. usmslogo.png United States Masters Swimming (Adult Learn to Swim) Giving Bill Winkler 1933-2016 ‹ Faculty Staff Fitness up Giving › Contact Faculty Staff Fitness Faculty Staff Fitness 123 Langton Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 Phone: 541-737-3222 Email us Hours of operation 8 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. and 2:30 - 5 p.m. Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram