Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Health Sciences Health Sciences Researchers at LIBR identify abnormal heart-brain connection in generalized anxiety disorder Researchers at the Laureate Institute for Brain Research identified an abnormal link Read More TU students help major health care provider assess community needs When Ascension St. John began planning a large-scale community health needs assessment, Read More Emergency flight nurses chart new career paths via DNP program Dynamic husband-and-wife duo Andy and Misty Cannon have powered up their engines Read More National Athletic Trainers’ Association inducts Gardner into Hall of Fame The National Athletic Trainers’ Association has honored Chapman Clinical Professor of Athletic Read More Sixth class of Tulsa Schweitzer Fellows named The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship (ASF) has announced the selection of its sixth Read More Advanced practice nursing alumna strives to eliminate health care disparities in rural Oklahoma Accessing health care is an enormous challenge for many Americans, especially for Read More Speech-language pathologists at the frontlines of COVID-19 patient care Graduates of TU’s speech-language pathology programs are in the thick of helping Read More Exploring communication partners Speech-language pathology student Rosa Zavaleta's TURC research aims to uncover the traits Read More On the job: TU nursing students develop their skills and care for patients during summer externships For 12 of TU’s nursing students, the summer between junior and senior Read More Advanced practice nursing students bring care into the community Students in TU’s Family Nurse Practitioner program expand access to care while Read More Digital voices: Speech-language pathology students embrace online care delivery Since launching in spring, telepractice consultations have enabled speech-language pathology master’s students Read More Statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement As a community, we have to hold each other accountable to teach Read More Posts navigation Older posts 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT