Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Academics > Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Health Care Delivery Sciences Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Laureate Institute for Brain Research Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Exercise and Sports Science Exercise and Sports Science practitioners provide healthcare, technique/skill instruction and performance enhancement for the physically active as well as those at risk for disease. Foundation knowledge for this practice is gained through study of how physical activity influences the human body. Students use their knowledge and skills in internship courses that are part of the major. Students are prepared for careers in commercial fitness centers or corporate wellness programs, as well as positions as personal trainers or strength and conditioning coaches. Exercise & Sports Science majors who choose the pre-med or pre-professional tracks can use their degree as preparation for professional study in medicine, cardiac rehabilitation, physical therapy and other health-care professions or graduate school programs in biomechanics, exercise physiology, or related fields. Nursing A Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) from The University of Tulsa School of Nursing prepares graduates to practice in the complex, sophisticated and exciting world of health care. Along with a strong practice focus, a BSN provides the solid foundation needed for success in graduate school and for advanced certification or leadership roles. The School of Nursing offers two BSN pathways: Pre-licensure (Traditional) BSN Program RN to BSN Program option The Pre-licensure BSN provides students with extensive knowledge and hands-on experience in a variety of settings, offers small classroom and clinical class sizes, and personalized support from professors. This program option prepares students to enter practice by taking the RN licensure examination (NCLEX-RN). The RN to BSN program option provides the opportunity for RNs to expand their knowledge and open doors to new career opportunities in nursing. By earning a BSN, the associate-prepared RN will be uniquely prepared for graduate education and for continued personal and professional development. The RN to BSN program is for nurses who possess an active RN license, hold an associate degree in nursing and meet admission requirements. This program is primarily online and can be taken full-time or part-time and completed in as few as 12 months. Speech-Language Pathology Speech-language pathologists help people of all ages who have communication and swallowing disorders such as stuttering, delayed language and articulation development, aphasia, and cognitive disorders. They also provide audiology screening tests as well as audiologic rehabilitation and counseling services to persons who are hard-of-hearing and their families. Speech-language pathologists learn about augmentative and alternative communication devices and use these systems with clients to facilitate their communication skills. The Bachelor of Science in Speech-Language Pathology prepares students for graduate programs in speech-language pathology or audiology. Undergraduate students engage various clinical activities as they pursue their major courses as well as in supervised clinical practicum at the onsite clinic, Mary K. Chapman Center for Communication Disorders, during their senior year Coaching minor The coaching minor prepares students for coaching positions in a variety of athletic settings and is offered to non-exercise and sports science/athletic training majors. Early Intervention minor An interdisciplinary minor for students who plan to work with young children with special needs and their families. It is recommended for, but not limited to, students in communication disorders, education, nursing, and psychology. Exercise Science minor The Exercise Sports Science minor provides students with the knowledge necessary to understand exercise and sports science concepts, such as functional movement, responses, and adaptations. This minor is inclusive to recreational, therapeutic, and physical activity settings. The coursework increases a student’s knowledge base, enhances qualifications, provides competitive edge in the allied health, wellness or fitness world and builds credibility. Students who complete this minor are eligible to sit for the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) or the NSCA Certified Personal Trainer (CPT) exams. Health Sciences minor The Health Sciences minor is intended to provide students with a broader understanding of universal concepts related to health and healthcare. It is recommended for students from any major who plan to work in any aspect of healthcare. The coursework required for this academic minor allows students to tailor the 12 required credit hours from a list of courses that represent a variety of health and healthcare related disciplines. Speech-language Pathology Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about speech-language are encouraged to add it as a minor. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT