Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > School of Nursing > Nursing Facilities Nursing Facilities https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ NURSING Nursing Undergraduate Programs Nursing Graduate Programs Nursing Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department There is no substitute for an academically nurturing environment. Students find our remarkable student-teacher ratio a decided advantage that promotes interaction among students and faculty. The personal learning experience in the School of Nursing is further enhanced by an on-campus skills laboratory, computer lab and a high-fidelity human simulation center. The skills lab and simulation center afford students the opportunity to practice what they have learned in a setting that simulates the healthcare problems they will face in the real world. Clinical experience in Tulsa’s local hospitals, which have bed capacities ranging from 100 to 500 in addition to outpatient clinical settings, will provide a comprehensive patient mix. Hillcrest St. John Saint Francis The Nursing Skills lab allows students to practice assessment and intervention skills in a simulated environment. The TU School of Nursing operates several high-fidelity human simulators. In addition, multiple medium- and low-fidelity human simulators are available for student skills practice. The lab is equipped with hospital beds and bedside tables, a pediatric bed, infant warmer, exam table, wheel chairs, infusion IV pumps, wall-mounted otoscope and ophthalmoscope sets and other essential equipment. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT