Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Academics > Graduate Programs Graduate Programs ACADEMICS Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Health Care Delivery Sciences Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Laureate Institute for Brain Research Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Master’s of Athletic Training The program is designed to provide structured didactic (classroom) and clinical experiences to prepare a student for an entry-level position in athletic training. Athletic Training is an allied health field recognized by the American Medical Association. Certified Athletic Trainers specialize in the prevention, recognition, treatment and rehabilitation of injuries caused by physical activity. Students can complete this program as a stand-alone master’s degree or as part of an accelerated 5-year Bachelor’s in Exercise & Sports Science and Master of Athletic Training. Doctor of Nursing Practice The University of Tulsa’s doctor of nursing practice (DNP) programs prepare nurses to become a nurse practitioner, nurse anesthetist or provide an opportunity for advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs) to further their careers. Some foundation courses are offered in a hybrid format, while the core courses are offered in state-of-the-art classroom and laboratory facilities. The in-person courses allow students to interact with faculty in the learning process and get immediate feedback in laboratory, advanced skills, and diagnostic activities. Another unique feature is that all clinical rotations are selected and assigned by program faculty. We offer the following full-time DNP programs: Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (AG-ACNP) Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Nurse Anesthesia (NA) An MSN to DNP option is available for APRNs who hold a master’s degree and meet other program admission requirements. This option can be completed primarily online in six part-time semesters. We want to invest in you. Generous DNP scholarships — up to $10,000 — are available for qualified applicants. Master’s of Speech-Language Pathology The Master of Science degree in speech-language pathology provides a comprehensive educational experience consisting of academic coursework, clinical training and research opportunities that prepare students to evaluate, treat and conduct research with persons with communication and swallowing disorders in any professional setting. Graduates of the program are employed in public and private schools, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, private practices, and other settings. Certificate in Health Care Delivery Sciences This program is offered as an online graduate certificate or as a track within the MBA program. Content includes a wide range of topics, including population health, quality improvement, health information technology, ethics, and social determinants of health. This program helps recent graduates as well as mid-career professionals better understand the US Healthcare system. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT