Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search For Visitors On this page, you will find information and answers to frequently asked questions, related to COVID-19, for Stanford visitors. Stanford visitors include temporary community members, such as visiting scholars and researchers, as well as members of the public. Important All visitors arriving from international destinations must adhere to current Stanford travel policies, please visit the travelers page here for more information on these requirements. Face coverings are no longer required at Stanford, but are strongly recommended while indoors. Visiting scholars, researchers, and other temporary community members with a regular presence on a Stanford campus are required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. If a visitor tests positive for COVID-19, within 10 days of being onsite, they must complete the General COVID-19 Case Reporting Form. Temporary Community Members: Including Visiting Scholars, Researchers, and Others As announced in June 2021, the Provost’s COVID Academic Policy Group relaxed restrictions on new appointments of Visiting Student Researchers, Visiting Postdoctoral Scholars, Visiting Scholars, and other non-matriculated students. As of September 1, 2021, new appointments are allowed, subject to approval by the cognizant dean of the school for Visiting Student Researchers, Visiting Postdoctoral Scholars, Visiting Scholars, and other non-matriculated students who will be physically present on campus. All temporary community members with a regular presence on campus starting June 21, 2021 will be required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19. This requirement will apply to those at Stanford locations in Santa Clara and San Mateo counties, including the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, as well as SAL3 in Livermore and Hopkins Marine Station. For the purposes of this policy, temporary community members include: visitors with extended academic or research appointments administered by a Stanford school, department, or unit (e.g. visiting scholars, researchers, adjunct faculty, teaching staff) on campus at least once a week, for three weeks or more; non-degree or non-matriculated students on campus at least once a week, for three weeks or more; external participants of summer programs living in campus residences. All temporary community members described above must meet and follow University policies, including: Face Covering Use Abide by the university’s indoor and outdoor face covering requirements. COVID-19 Vaccination Requirements Get vaccinated against COVID-19. New arrivals to campus who are unvaccinated or arriving from international destinations must restrict their activity, and follow protocols for newly arriving unvaccinated students. Temporary Community Members who pay the Campus Health Service Fee (such as Visiting Student Researchers) should follow the student vaccination verification process and upload their documentation into Vaden Health Center’s portal Temporary Community Members who DO NOT pay the Campus Health Service Fee should follow the staff, faculty and postdocs vaccination verification process and upload their documentation to Health Check. Vaccination is also recommended for spouses, partners, and children aged 12 years and older. Members of the Public Members of the public are welcome to visit Stanford museums and outdoor areas, across both campuses. At this time, other University buildings are not open to the general public. Visitor parking is available in all parts of the main campus. Visiting the university museums The Cantor Arts Center and Anderson Collection at Stanford University are both open to the public. Reservations are required. Face coverings and social distancing are recommended regardless of vaccination status. Changes to Stanford art museums programming will be provided here. Other links Suppliers & Service Vendor Information Overview of events, gatherings, and meetings On this page Stanford Visitor: Daily COVID-19 Health Attestation Temporary Community Members: Including Visiting Scholars, Researchers, and Others Nonessential Visitors and Members of the Public Other links Testing, prevention & care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Where can I get tested? How do I get vaccinated? Personal care & prevention Campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Report test results/symptoms Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.