Skip to main content Open Menu User account menu Emergencies Forms MyUHC Contact Give Search Go Search Search Go Search Medical & Behavioral Health Allergy Clinic International Travel Clinic Behavioral Health Services COVID-19: UHC Operations Laboratory Immunization Clinic Transgender Healthcare LGBTQ+ Health & Wellness International Student Vaccine Information Lab Services Mens Health Occupational Health Physical Therapy Primary Care Walk-In Services Sports Medicine Telemedicine Visits Women's Health X-Ray Services Flu and COVID-19 FAQ's Wellness & Advocacy Acupuncture & Massage Therapy CARE to Stop Violence CARE Events Get Educated & Get Involved How to Help a Survivor Health Promotion & Wellness Services Alcohol & Other Drug Education Creating a Culture of Wellness: Tips and Tool Kit Light Therapy Meditation Services Nutrition Services Professional Staff Presentations Sexual Health Stress Management Wellness Coaching 8 Dimensions of Wellness Insurance & Billing Student Health Insurance Billing and Costs Insurance and Billing Contacts Information Sent Home Health Insurance Waiver Insurance Filing Mandatory Insurance Pharmacy FSAP Confronting Substance Abuse Effective Communication Emergency Loan Fund FSAP Client Feedback Healthy Families How to be a Great Supervisor Managing Depression Managing Stress and Anger About Us Resources Alumni and Visitors Appointments Contact Emergency and After Hours Care Hours and Location Meet Our Staff Mission and Vision Notice of Privacy Practices Patient Rights and Responsibilities Patient Satisfaction Assessment Survey Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC) User account menu Emergencies Forms MyUHC Contact Give University Health Center Leading the Way to Healthier Terps Hours of Operation Monday 8:00am - 5:00pm Tuesday 8:00am - 5:00pm Wednesday 11:00am - 5:00pm Thursday 8:00am - 5:00pm Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday 9:00am - 12:00pm Sunday CLOSED LIMITED SERVICES ARE AVAILABLE UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE. Telemedicine Appointments HEAL Line: (301) 405-4325 (HEAL) Appointments: (301) 314-8184 After-Hours Nurse Line: (301) 314-9386 Emergency? Call 911 or an Urgent Care Center Coronavirus: COVID-19 Vaccine Information HEAL Line, Isolation, & Quarantine Information UHC COVID-19 Operations All individuals present in the building must wear a face covering and should provide for social distancing spaces between themselves and others. The University Health Center is deeply committed to caring for our students. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue to offer services to our campus community, although we will operate with some modifications. Health Center Resources Chat with a UHC Virtual Assistant New and Transfer Students International Students For Parents UMD Employees Students with Underlying Health Conditions Appointments Planned Parenthood Chat Flu Shots Pharmacy Nutrition Services Behavioral Health Substance Use Intervention and Treatment University Health CenterProvides Women's Health Wellness Services Allergy Clinic Walk-In Services Primary Care xray Advocacy Services Happening at the UHC Slide Image Free STI Testing Clinics By appointment only. Click here to schedule. Slide Image COVID-19 Vaccine Information We're here to support you as you have questions. Slide Image How to help a friend in distress Watch this short video about many campus resources that can help you help your friends! Slide Image Well in a Shell A student Health 101 publication brought to you by University Recreation & Wellness and the University Health Center Slide Image Thriving Thursdays! Living your best life Wellness Tips & Tool Kit Connecting with students and creating a culture of wellness Active COVID-19 Testing Locations in Maryland Where to find free safer sex supplies at the Health Center Health Promotion and Wellness Services provides a variety of free safer sex materials. Watch this quick video to learn how to access them. Support the University Health Center's Work Get Involved Involvement and engagement with campus resources contribute to student success. Learn about opportunities offered by the University Health Center Give The University Health Center serves the campus through a variety of programs that rely on your support! Learn more, search "health". Thank you! Our Staff and Facility The University Health Center was founded in 1901. We continue to be proudly accredited by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care for over 30 years. The Human Rights Campaign has also designated the University Health Center as a Leader in LGBTQ Healthcare Equality, and are Green Office Silver level certified. Our 50,000 square foot facility is home to clinical, behavioral health, sexual misconduct resources, complementary and alternative medicine, health promotion and wellness, and ancillary services including pharmacy, x-ray, physical therapy, and lab, among other services and programs. The University Health Center is staffed by over 100 diverse college health and wellness professionals who serve a myriad of student, staff and faculty needs. Accreditations User account menu Emergencies Forms MyUHC Contact Give Main navigation Medical & Behavioral Health Wellness & Advocacy Insurance & Billing Pharmacy FSAP About Us © 2022 University Health Center Feedback Web Accessibility Privacy Notice Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube