Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Travel Policies Sub Navigation In This Section Travel-related Guidance for Students Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs Travel Policies Throughout the pandemic, Brown has assessed health, safety and security challenges across the world and updated its decisions on travel policy based on guidance from government and health agencies. Brown continually monitors domestic and international travel risk and safety related to the COVID-19 pandemic informed by various travel advisories and public health authorities. These include, but are not limited to the U.S. Department of State (DOS), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), International SOS, the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) and other states’ health agencies, as well as Brown faculty and staff regional experts. Brown continues to update its travel policies in light of the increased COVID-19 vaccination rates in the U.S. and the growing international availability of COVID-19 vaccines. Brown encourages all travelers on domestic and international travel to exercise caution and abide by relevant local and country health guidance. The current guidance outlined below relies on current public health information and may be revised as global travel advisories and conditions evolve and prompt shifts in Brown’s operations and protocols. Undergraduate students should also visit: Travel-related Guidance for Students University-Sponsored International Travel Brown’s established policy for High-Risk University-sponsored international travel serves as the prevailing policy for all community members considering University-sponsored travel outside the United States or U.S. territories. A summary of the policy is provided below, and more information about Brown’s international travel policy is available on the International Travel Risk Management website. Students: All students may travel to countries rated as U.S. DOS Level 1 or 2, and/or CDC Level 1, and/or CDC COVID-19 Level 1 and Level 2 as part of University-sponsored travel. Any undergraduate, graduate or medical student wishing to travel to a High-Risk Travel (U.S. DOS Level 3 or Level 4, or CDC Level 2 or Level 3, or CDC COVID-19 Level 3 or COVID-19 Level 4) destination and not traveling with a Brown-administered group program — e.g. through the Office of International Programs (OIP), Swearer Center, Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME), GELT/Wintersession, etc. — must complete a Safety Plan via TravelSafe and obtain permission from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC) prior to making travel arrangements. All students are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe. Faculty and Staff: All faculty and staff on University-sponsored travel (domestic and international) are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe for the foreseeable future. Faculty and staff are not required to complete a Safety Plan but are encouraged to do so if they are traveling to a High Risk Travel (U.S. DOS Level 3 or Level 4, or CDC Level 3 or Level 4, or CDC COVID-19 Level 3 or COVID-19 Level 4) destination. Approved study abroad programs are exempt from this guidance, as they have separately gone through a rigorous site assessment and program review by the OIP and GTRAC taking into consideration guidance from U.S. agencies, in-country health conditions and public health experts, as well as readiness plans of each program, including housing, on-site staffing and partner organizations’ and universities’ protocols. Although vaccinated international travelers may experience eased restrictions, many countries continue to impose border entry restrictions, including mandatory quarantine and testing requirements. It is essential for all international travelers to review their destination travel requirements and remain apprised of U.S. re-entry guidelines. All members of the community should actively monitor the U.S. Department of State website, the CDC website and the International SOS pandemic website for updates (via login through Brown’s membership number: 11BSGC000031), as travel and entry restrictions continue to evolve and could change with little advance warning. Travelers on University-sponsored travel are also strongly encouraged to download the International SOS Assistance App for important travel planning tools and to receive alerts directly to their mobile device. University-Sponsored Domestic Travel Domestic travel is defined as travel to a destination within the United States or U.S. territories. Please note the following when considering University-sponsored domestic travel: Travel is permitted for faculty, staff, graduate and medical students, and undergraduates. Travelers do not need to seek pre-departure travel review or approval but are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe. Travelers should review the CDC’s guidance on domestic travel, as well as the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH) guidance for returning to Rhode Island after travel outside the state. Returning to Rhode Island after Travel Any individual arriving from outside of Rhode Island (including domestic and international locations) must follow the current Rhode Island Department of Health guidelines, as applicable. More information can be found on the RIDOH website. Personal Travel As with University-sponsored travel, Brown continues to encourage all travelers on domestic and international personal travel to exercise caution and abide by relevant local and country health guidance. Travelers should continue to prepare for the possibility of local quarantines and fluctuating travel and domestic operations restrictions and/or testing requirements in some locations. The University is unable to support the health, safety, travel and academic needs of community members on personal travel. Travel Registration and Other Resources For the foreseeable future, Brown requires all members of the Brown community to register domestic and international University-related travel in Brown’s global travel registry, TravelSafe, via their Brown login. Registering will also pre-authorize travelers on university-sponsored international travel for International SOS, a 24/7 travel assistance, travel medical insurance and evacuation assistance resource. Registration enables all travelers to receive timely updates and advisories from International SOS sent directly to the registered traveler’s email. Travelers on University-sponsored travel are also strongly encouraged to download the International SOS Assistance App for important travel planning tools and to receive alerts directly to their mobile device. International SOS can also assist the University in locating you and offering available support in the event of an emergency. International students considering personal travel should contact the Office of International Student and Scholar Services (OISSS) for general travel and re-entry information. All members of the community should actively monitor the U.S. Department of State website, the CDC website and the International SOS pandemic website for updates (via login through Brown’s membership number: 11BSGC000031); travel and entry restrictions continue to evolve and could change with little advance warning. Last updated June 1, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Travel Policies Open details for Travel Policies Bookmark this Page