Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Our Services Cost of Service Cost of Service Cost of Service Columbia Health and Related Services Fee About the Fee The following categories of students are required to pay the full-time Columbia Health and Related Services Fee, regardless of their physical location: full-time domestic students, international students (including part-time), and part-time students who are on the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan Columbia Health, directly or in conjunction with our global partners, will continue to provide our full range of services to students, in person or virtually, across all 50 states as well as for our students located outside of the United States. Half-time or part-time students not enrolled in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan pay a reduced fee and have access to some, but not all, of the services. Half or part-time students may elect to upgrade to the full-time fee to access the full range of on-campus programs and services. As with other University fees, the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee is mandatory, non-refundable, not prorated, and is billed through the Student Account Statement. A small portion of the fee supports the University Gender-based Misconduct Office, so that staff may fully collaborate to provide necessary resources and support to students who have experienced sexual assault. An additional small portion of the fee supports the University International Travel Safety and Security program. This helps provide risk assessments and travel advice, including emergency assistance services for students traveling abroad while studying or conducting research. What’s Covered The full-time Columbia Health and Related Services Fee gives students access to programs and services provided through Columbia Health: Administration Alice! Health Promotion (including the Gay Health Advocacy Project - GHAP) Counseling and Psychological Services* Disability Services Medical Services* Sexual Violence Response Students pay no additional charges for most services provided on campus. See the Service Fees page for more information. Students can also get a number of vaccinations with no out of pocket costs: Hepatitis A, B, or a combination Human papillomavirus (for students age 26 or younger) Influenza Meningococcal Meningitis Pneumococcal (if clinically indicated) Tetanus/Diphtheria or Tetanus/Diphtheria/Pertussis Varicella Shingrix (only appropriate for students over the age of 60) *not available to students paying the half-time or part-time fee. What’s Not Covered Certain services (e.g. radiology services and prescriptions) ordered by Medical Services and Counseling and Psychological Services providers are not covered by this fee. Students will need to provide their health insurance coverage information at the time these services are received. See the Service Fees page for more information. Spouses and Domestic Partners Spouses and registered domestic partners of Columbia students who are covered by the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan also pay a Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Billed through the Student Account Statement at a reduced rate, Columbia Health provides access to Medical Services and most Alice! Health Promotion initiatives. Spouses and domestic partners are not eligible to be seen at Counseling and Psychological Services. Columbia Health is unable to provide services to dependent children. We are also unable to provide services to spouses and registered domestic partners of Columbia students who are not enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan. Coverage Rates 2021-2022 Academic Year Fall (Aug. 15, 2021 to Dec. 31, 2021): $623 Spring/Summer (Jan. 1, 2022 to Aug. 14, 2022): $623 Annual Fee (Aug. 15, 2021 to Aug. 14, 2022): $1,246 Summer* (May 15, 2022 to Aug. 14, 2022): $450 *Applies to new summer students only Department Student Health Insurance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close