Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Event Visitors, Dining and Catering Sub Navigation In This Section Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Event Visitors, Dining and Catering Visitors and guests to campus can enjoy Brown’s robust offering of events and activities, respecting the health and safety protocols currently in place. Events at Brown are a vital aspect of maintaining community. It is more important than ever that the University support opportunities for the community to come together, both in-person and remotely. Visitors and guests are allowed to attend events on the Brown University campus without specific approvals or permissions, though visitors and guests to campus will be subject to Brown’s policies and health protocols. The following guidance is currently in place for in-person events: Members of the community planning events, conferences, programs and meetings for the spring semester can do so with the expectation that there will be no restrictions, limitations or special approval processes to host in-person events, gatherings or performances of any type. There are no limits on attendance/audience size (other than fire code and other non-pandemic related restrictions), and no limitations on types of event visitors and guests, whether or not they are members of the campus community. Undergraduate student organizations should work with Brown’s Student Activities Office for guidance and support related to in-person meetings and activities. The Student Activities Office also continues to provide guidance and reminders on its website. No Vaccination Requirement for Limited-Duration Visitors Most non-Brown audience members and participants in events and on-campus activities are considered “limited-duration” visitors. Limited-duration visitors are those who visit campus three days per month or less. and therefore are not required to submit proof of or attest to vaccination status. They must abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and any requirements specific to the facility or program they are visiting, e.g., health care or medical research settings with indoor mask requirements (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals). Examples of limited-duration visitors include: guests attending a lecture, performance, conference, event, campus tour or athletic competition; prospective students (and family members) and prospective faculty and staff visiting the campus for less than three days; all human subject research participants coming to campus for research participation regardless of the duration of their interaction with the Brown community; visitors consulting library, art and material culture collections, or viewing exhibitions, gallery displays and cultural points of interest on campus. Please see the Visitors and Guests page for requirements for visitors on campus for longer or sustained periods of time. Publicity for Events Event publicity materials can link to the Vaccination Requirement and Mask Protocol for Visitors and Guests page on this Healthy Brown website and include the following: “Brown University abides by public health guidance and health and safety protocols to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals).” A similar statement can be made at the beginning of an event. Dining and Catering for Events There are no special restrictions on food at events or limitations around food delivery (such as buffet service) or other shared activities and items. All individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear masks indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space (e.g., office or dorm room) or when actively eating. In addition, social distancing of at least six feet must be maintained when unmasked. Unvaccinated individuals must continue to wear a mask outdoors when social distancing of at least six feet is not possible. The University continues a robust and aggressive health and safety plan based on its experience during the pandemic to date, including social distancing among Brown Dining staff, mandatory face coverings and intense cleaning. Last updated Feb. 15, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Event Visitors, Dining and Catering Open details for Event Visitors, Dining and Catering Bookmark this Page