Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines COVID-19 Immunization Medical Exemption Request Form COVID-19 Immunization Medical Exemption Request Form March 01, 2022 As of Feb. 23, 2022: Given the deferral of Columbia's booster mandate deadline, exemption review process for boosters has been paused, and will be reactivated four weeks prior to any new mandate deadline. The committee will not be making a determination on requests received in the interim. Individuals who wish to continue with the exemption process at the time a new deadline is determined will be able to submit the appropriate documentation again. Instructions: Morningside Students: Please complete this form and submit, with all required documentation, via the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Go to secure.health.columbia.edu and log in with your UNI. Select "Medical Clearances" from the left-hand menu. Select "Update" next to Upload Immunization Files. Select "Upload" and attach the form and required documentation. Accepted formats are gif, jpg, png, and pdf. There is a 4 MB file size limit If the item is legible, click the "Looks Good" button; then click the "Save" button. After you upload and submit your entry, the University will review your request. Allow at least 15 business days for processing. CUIMC Students: Please complete this form and submit, with all required documentation, via the Student Health on Haven Patient Portal. Read the pre-registration instructions requirements. Go to portal.studenthealth.cuimc.columbia.edu and log in with your UNI. Follow the instructions on the portal. Note that this immunization documentation is not listed on the current pre-registration forms. Faculty and Staff: Please complete this form and submit, with all required documentation, to [email protected]. Download the form: Request for COVID19 Medical Exemption Form 01.28.22_a.pdf166.99 KB Document Categories Forms Document Topics COVID-19 Immunization Compliance Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close