Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Isolation Protocols Breadcrumb Home Testing and Isolation Sub Navigation In This Section COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Isolation Protocols Brown’s isolation protocols for Spring 2022 are based on updated guidance from the Rhode Island Department of Health and U.S. Centers for Disease Control. The University requires that community members who test positive for COVID-19 self-isolate for a period of five (5) days. The five-day period applies regardless of previous infection, vaccination or booster status, and the presence or absence of symptoms. To calculate your 5-day isolation period, day 0 is your first day of symptoms OR your asymptomatic positive test date (whichever is earlier). Day 1 is the first full day after your symptoms developed or positive test result. On day 5 you can take a rapid antigen test and if the result is negative and you have no symptoms or improving symptoms, you are released from isolation. If the day-5 test is positive, you must continue to isolate until you have a negative result on a rapid test AND have no or improving symptoms OR reach day 10 (whichever is sooner). If you are able to end isolation on day 5, it is important to wear a well-fitting mask around others for 5 additional days, even at home. Isolation Protocols for Students Brown’s primary focus for the Spring 2022 semester, especially during surges in cases, will be on supporting students who test positive and experience significant illness. Brown also will work to provide all students who report positive test results with basic support as needed. Where students who test positive isolate will depend on their current living arrangements. Undergraduates students who test positive and live on campus in private bedrooms (i.e., a single room, a single within a suite, or as the sole occupant of a double room) will isolate in their residence hall room, as will students who live in shared bedrooms and have roommates who have also tested positive. For students who test positive and share a bedroom with a student who tests negative, designated isolation housing (i.e. dorm rooms set aside by the University or in a hotel) will be a primary option. In these cases, University Health Services will prioritize designated isolation housing based on a number of factors including the severity of symptoms and the ability to move roommates who test negative to alternative housing options. Students who test positive and wish to leave campus to isolate will be able to do so only if they can use a private vehicle to leave campus and travel to their isolation location. Undergraduate, graduate and medical school students who live off campus and test positive will continue to be expected to isolate at their off-campus residence. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Isolation Protocols Open details for Isolation Protocols Bookmark this Page