Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Return to Campus Breadcrumb Home Workforce Sub Navigation In This Section Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Return to Campus Brown plans to return to significant on-site operations for the Fall 2021 semester, with the goal of nearly all faculty, staff and students returning to campus in some capacity. Transition to Mostly In-person Operations To facilitate a gradual increase in the campus population as the fall semester approaches, the following phased schedule for a full return to on-site work will be followed for employees who have been working remotely: Monday, Aug. 16: Employees and offices actively engaged in supporting the student experience, student move-in, peer leader training, pre-orientation and orientation programs, varsity athletic pre-season activities, and other similar activities will be expected to return in-person by this date. Wednesday, Sept. 1: Faculty and academic staff actively engaged in academic advising and support for new students during orientation (Advising Day is Friday, Sept. 3) will be expected to return in-person by this date. Wednesday, Sept. 8: Faculty and academic staff actively engaged in teaching will be expected to return in-person by this date, which is the first day of classes for 2021-22. Monday, Sept. 13: All other employees and administrative offices will be expected to return in-person by this date. Preparation for Return to Campus In preparing for a full return to campus for employees, Brown has made key changes to day-to-day operations that will ensure our community will be safe as we reunite. These include: continued cleaning and ventilation protocols with increased outdoor air circulation and filter efficiency; touchless upgrades in campus facilities as well as strategically placed hand sanitizer stations; increased videoconferencing capabilities in classrooms and meeting rooms across campus; and and new administrative policies to help guide staff and supervisors as they plan for effective, productive and flexible work. Future of Work at University Human Resources Administrative Updates As of June 2021, employee designations for working on-site at Brown no longer are guided by Return to Campus plans. The University has discontinued the development, review, and approval of Return to Campus Plans (research, academic and administrative). Departments and labs are now responsible for reviewing, approving and maintaining on-site staffing, as well as submitting all staffing changes directly to University Human Resources (UHR). If you have any questions, please contact universityhr@brown.edu. Last updated June 1, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Return to Campus Open details for Return to Campus Bookmark this Page