Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Visitors & Guests Visitors and guests are allowed on the Brown University campus without specific approvals or permissions, subject to Brown’s policies and health protocols. All visitors and guests must comply with the University’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and follow all guidance, direction and requirements regarding COVID-19 health and safety protocols, including at events. Visitors to and guests of Brown University are explicitly subject to the following provisions and expectations, as outlined on this page. Visiting for Commencement and Reunion in May 2022? Brown’s current health and safety protocols for visitors and guests also apply to families and guests arriving at Brown for Commencement and Reunion Weekend. Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement Long-term and short-term visitors (see definitions below) to Brown, whether researchers, faculty, students or others, who are engaged in any sustained and consistent in-person contact with other Brown employees, students or visitors are required to be “up to date” with COVID-19 vaccines. Any visitor of this type who is not up to date with COVID-19 Vaccines must engage with the University virtually. Limited-duration visitors (see definition below) are not required to submit proof of or attest to vaccination status. All visitors must abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and comply with current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals). Exemptions for medical or religious grounds do not apply to visitors to the University. However, if the visitor is an individual with a disability, the individual may seek a reasonable accommodation. Up to date with COVID-19 Vaccine(s) is defined as a person who has received all recommended COVID-19 vaccines, including any booster dose(s) when eligible. For example, an individual is up to date when they have received a full course of a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or World Health Organization (WHO) authorized COVID-19 vaccine, and any booster dose(s) when eligible. Categories of Visitors Given the range of types and lengths of visits to the campus, the implementation of the up to date vaccination requirement may vary across programs. In general, visitors fall into three categories: long-term (usually a semester or more although sometimes for shorter periods of time and with an appointment in Workday): Must be up to date with COVID-19 vaccines. Required to upload documentation of being up to date with vaccines into Workday prior to beginning work at Brown. short-term (four full days over the course of a month or more, but without an appointment in Workday): Must be up to date with COVID-19 vaccines. Required to sign a University up to date vaccination attestation form. limited-duration (visits of three days per month or less): Not required to submit proof of or attest to vaccination status. They must abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and any requirements specific to the facility or program they are visiting (e.g., health care or medical research settings with indoor mask requirements). See the Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ for examples and further definition of long-term, short-term and limited-duration visitors. Visitors for Campus Tours Participants on campus tours conducted by the Office of College Admission are limited-duration visitors and are not required to submit proof of or attest to vaccination status. Campus tour participants will be instructed upon registration and upon arrival on campus of the mask policy at that time depending on vaccination status. It is important to note that mask wearing guidance is subject to change and visitors must comply with the policy in place at the time of their tour. Current University policy regarding face masks and coverings for vaccinated and unvaccinated Brown community members and visitors and guests can be found on the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page. Learn more about registering for campus tours on the Undergraduate Admission "Visit Brown" page. Mask Protocols for Visitors and Guests All visitors and guests must comply with current University policy regarding face masks and coverings for vaccinated and unvaccinated Brown community members and visitors and guests, which can be found on the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page. Guidance regarding face masks and coverings may change from time to time based on public health conditions and guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Protection (CDC) and the Rhode Island Department of Health (RIDOH). The campus community will be informed and expected to comply with mask requirements as communicated on the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page, University signage and information in buildings and elsewhere, direction from University officials (including at events), and other means by which the University disseminates current information regarding face masks and coverings policy. Departments and members of the Brown community with questions regarding visitors and guests related to COVID-19 not answered in the FAQ section should send an email to visitors@brown.edu. Last updated Feb. 15, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Visitors & Guests Open details for Visitors & Guests Bookmark this Page