Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Stamps Health Services About Stamps Hours Mission & Vision Meet our Staff Policies Quality and Patient Satisfaction HIPAA Designation Coronavirus Institute Operations Updates Tech Moving Forward Campus Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions Covid-19 Health Information Exposure and Health Alerts Covid-19 Testing Covid-19 Vaccine Vaccine Executive Order Prevention Well-Being Health Services Allergy, Immunization & Travel Clinic Laboratory & Radiology Services LGBTQIA Care Men's Health Pharmacy Primary Care Psychiatry Sports Medicine Women's Health Additional Services DePoe Eye Center Tech Dentistry Nutrition Services Influenza (Flu) Shot clinics Health Initiatives For Students Immunization Requirements Health Fee Student Health Insurance Medical Records Ambassadors For Employees Patient Portal After Hours Contact Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Policies Appointment Cancellations To cancel your appointment call 404-894-1420 or log in to Patient Portal and use the "Appointments" page to view and cancel your scheduled appointment(s). Confidentiality The relationship between our patients and our Stamps Health Services staff is confidential and our staff adheres to all federal and state laws currently governing the healthcare industry. Students are entitled to privacy, within the capacity of the Stamps facility, and confidentiality to the extent of the law. Notice of Health Information Privacy Practices This notice describes how medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. We will not use or disclose your health information without your written authorization, except as described in this notice. We reserve the right to change our practices and to make the new provisions effective for all protected health information we maintain. Should our information practices change, we will post a new revision on the Stamps Health Services Web Site. Click Here to read the Notice of Privacy Practices. To view PDF files, a PDF reader such as Adobe Reader is required. Click here to download. Understanding Your Health Record/Information Each time you visit a hospital, physician, or other health care provider, a record of your visit is made. Typically, this record contains your symptoms, examinations, test results, diagnoses, treatment, and a plan for future care or treatment. This information, often referred to as your health or medical record, is used in many ways to contribute to your individual health. At Stamps Health Services, we use an electronic health record (EHR). The information contained within the EHR contributes to individual health in the following ways: A basis for planning your care and treatment A means of communication among the many health professionals who contribute to your care A means of electronically prescribing medications Medical Records Stamps Health Services is committed to allowing individuals to exercise their rights under applicable federal and state laws and will take necessary steps to address individual requests to access, inspect, and/or obtain a copy of their health information in a timely and professional manner. All requests for the disclosure of protected health information are handled by the Medical Record Department. Your medical record is kept confidential at all times and is not associated with your academic record. Medical records are retained for a period of 10 years following graduation or last treatment at Stamps. Your Health Information Rights If you believe your privacy rights have been violated, you can file a complaint in writing with the Stamps Privacy Officer or with the Secretary of Health and Human Services. There will be no retaliation for filing a complaint. If you would like to act upon any of your health information rights, as provided herein, have any questions or would like additional information, please contact the Stamps Privacy Officer at 404-894-0074. View your full patient rights and responsibilities here. Need Assistance? Call us at (404) 894-1420 Schedule an appointment online Refill a prescription online Use our online support form After Hours Sign up for the Health Initiatives monthly newsletter here. Visit the contact page Patient Satisfaction Facebook Twitter Pinterest YouTube Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login