Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Prevention Sub Navigation In This Section About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Prevention It is the responsibility of every individual in the Brown community to take proactive steps to help prevent the spread of novel coronavirus and protect the health of self and others. Practical measures can help stop the spread of disease. Encourage those around you to follow public health guidelines and keep the Brown community healthy and safe. For the most up-to-date information on the status of face covering and social distancing requirements, consult the policies currently in effect on the Campus Activity Status page. Wear High-Quality Masks Protect yourself and the community by wearing a high-quality mask that fits correctly. Acceptable masks include KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical masks. Cloth masks generally do not provide adequate protection and are only acceptable if used over a disposable mask to improve the fit. Good Hygiene Washing your hands thoroughly (for at least 20 seconds) is one of the simplest and most effective means of preventing the spread of respiratory illness, including COVID-19. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer when you don’t have immediate access to water and soap. Cleaning Wiping down high-touch surfaces with sanitizing cloths in shared spaces around campus helps to limit the spread of illness. Testing & Tracing Log your symptoms, get tested for COVID-19 when prompted, and track who you see in person to help prevent the spread of illness and protect our community. Isolation / Quarantine Protect yourself and others by staying home if you’re experiencing any symptoms of illness, however mild. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Prevention Open details for Prevention Bookmark this Page