Jump to main navigation Jump to content Find a Doctor Services Locations Patients & Visitors Patient Services Questions About Your Bill? Urgent Care Where to Stay Patient & Family Services Clinical Services University of Utah Hospital University of Utah Hospital Staying at the Hospital Parking & Valet Looking for Another Location? General Questions 801-581-2668 Find an Interpreter About U of U Health Billing & Insurance MyChart Search Menu Find A U of U Health Doctor All U of U Health Services All U of U Health Locations For All U of U Health Patients & Visitors Patient Services Questions About Your Bill? Urgent Care Where to Stay Patients & Family Services Clinical Trials University of Utah Hospital University of Utah Hospital Staying at the Hospital Parking & Valet Looking for Another Location? General Questions 801-581-2668 Find an Interpreter About U of U Health Billing & Insurance MyChart Search Let’s catch up soon. Our hospitals and neighborhood health centers are open and here to safely provide the quality care you need. We continue to be a one-stop solution for all of your primary, specialty, urgent, and emergency care needs. Your best health begins today. Call 801-213-9500 or Schedule an Appointment Online Find a Doctor Find a Location Our Specialties My Health Records MyChart MyChart is a secure, online health management tool that connects University of Utah Health Patients to portions of their personal medical record and University Health Plan members to their insurance information. Learn more about MyChart. Covid-19 Testing & Vaccine Information Financial Assistance & Payment Plans U of U Health Activities & Events World-Class Health Care in Your Neighborhood Imagine getting the best health care that science has to offer. And while you are here, right down the hall, some of the world’s brightest minds are working tirelessly to make it even better. Why are we here? To make your health more accessible, more affordable, and more precise than ever before—even if you just need a physical. Find a Health Center Near You Explore Our Specialties Primary Care Staying well means caring for your health every day. Our primary care providers help you and your family set healthy habits, stay on top of routine screenings, and prevent and manage disease. They also treat most diseases except for very rare or unusual ones. Read More Women's Health Women's Health Services cares for women of all ages by providing OB/GYN checkups, preventive health screenings, midwife care, and more. Our specialties also include breast and reproductive health and treating gynecologic cancer. Read More Pediatrics We provide a long list of pediatric services, at University of Utah Health locations throughout the Mountain West and in collaboration with Primary Children's Hospital, to care for your child from infancy to adulthood. Read More Heart Health Centered at the Cardiovascular Center at University of Utah Hospital, our cardiovascular services include heart care, heart surgery, and treatment for all types of heart disease. Read More View All Our Services Expert Health News & Information Navigating your health can be difficult. HealthFeed is here to help. As the official blog of University of Utah Health, we are here to offer you information on the latest in medicine, research, nutrition, exercise, and more. We not only will give you the facts, but help you understand them in today’s world where headlines are changing every day. Visit the U of U Health Healthfeed Blog Site Links Find an Interpreter About Us Academics & Research Billing Jobs Giving Maps & Directions Newsroom Referring Providers Helpful Links Patient Rights & Responsibilities Disclaimer Privacy Statement DNV GL Public Information Policy Statement Non-Discrimination Policy Surprise Billing Rights Webmaster Contact Us University of Utah Health 50 North Medical Drive Salt Lake City, UT 84132 Hospital Operator: 801-581-2121 Appointment Scheduling: 801-213-9500 Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram All clinical services and programs are part of University of Utah Health Hospitals and Clinics. Copyright © 2022 University of Utah Health