Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Search Tool We are about celebrating, promoting and valuing health from an individual, environmental, and community perspective. UPHYS Units Travel Clinic Occupational Health Health4U Program Food and Water Sanitarian Employee Assistance Program We are about celebrating, promoting and valuing health from an individual, environmental, and community perspective. About Courses Staff Contact ANDI Toggle Dropdown About Articles Coaching Courses Resources Departmental Services Emotional Wellness Toggle Dropdown About Articles Coaching Courses Resources Departmental Services Food and Nutrition Toggle Dropdown About Articles Coaching Courses Recipes Resources Departmental Services MSU Moves Toggle Dropdown About Articles Coaching Courses Resources Departmental Services My Health Toggle Dropdown About Articles Coaching Courses Resources Departmental Services Welcome to Health4U at Michigan State University Health4U is focused on helping the MSU community explore the fundamentals of a health-promoting lifestyle. We provide access to high quality, evidence informed, and culturally conscious health education and support. We offer health and wellness courses, coaching services and departmental services. On our website you will also find articles, resources, and recipes published by Health4U staff. Classes Our classes have resumed and will primarily be offered via Zoom. Please check for the most up-to-date class information at: https://health4u.msu.edu/courses. Food & Nutrition Counseling Appointments Food & Nutrition Counseling appointments continue to be available by telehealth videoconferencing, which is an encrypted platform that is completely confidential and HIPAA compliant. You’ll need the Zoom platform downloaded to your devices in order to participate in Telehealth videoconferencing. For information regarding Zoom, please visit https://msu.zoom.us/. If you need assistance with setting up a Zoom account, please contact the MSU IT Service Desk at 517-432-6200. Appointments are also now available in-person. For an appointment to meet with our Health4U Nutritionist, please contact us by: Calling 517-353-2596, Monday through Friday between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Emailing us at health4u@msu.edu. You are not required to email us from your MSU email address; please email us from the email address you are most comfortable with. The office is located in Room 110 Linton Hall at 479 West Circle Drive. Parking is available in the Grand River Parking Ramp across the street from Linton Hall. Who Is Eligible? MSU community members eligible for Health4U services include faculty, staff, graduate assistants, retirees, and spouses/partners of members in these groups. View our Health4U Events Calendar to see what classes are being offered! Upcoming Classes Spring 2022: Jan. 1 Dec. 31 MSU Grief and Loss Support Group Zoom4:00 PM - 5:30 PMTuesdays, Weekly, 4:00-5:30 p.m.Free Read More Summer 2022: May. 13 Jul. 18 Rest with Music - Summer 2022 Abrams Planetarium or Facebook Live12:10 PM - 12:50 PMMondayFreeRegister for this class May 13 (Special Friday Show) May 16 June 20 July 18 Read More Summer 2022: May. 17 Jun. 7 Chair Yoga Zoom11:15 AM - 12:00 PMTuesdaysFreeRegister for this class May 17 May 24 May 31 June 7 Read More Summer 2022: Jun. 1 Jun. 22 Self-Compassion - An Essential Skill for Success - Summer 2022 Zoom12:00 PM - 1:00 PMWednesdaysFreeRegister for this class June 1 June 8 June 15 June 22 Self-Compassion is a hidden factor in an employee's ability to provide sustainable high performance in their work and personal lives. Read More Browse all Upcoming Classes Recent Articles Move @ Work Work a Desk Job? Watch Your Back: How to avoid pain and set yourself up for success If you spend lots of time sitting at work, take steps to protect yourself from pain and discomfort with these practical tips View Article Eating for well-being The weight is over: How to leave office ‘weight talk’ in the past Return to the office with simple strategies to resist weight and body image concerns. View Article I AM A RUNNER! In March 2020, as life started shutting down around us, I knew that my professional limits were about to be tested unlike anything previously. View Article Eating for well-being Focused Eating in a World of Distraction Finding a quiet moment in a world of technology is difficult. Distractions are at the touch of a button. Review Abby's suggestions to help you pay attention and enjoy your meals and snacks. View Article Browse all Articles Featured recipes Recipe For Health May 2017 Rhubarb & Strawberry Crisp Combine tart rhubarb with sweet strawberries, add a streusel topping, and bake until bubbly. Dessert doesn’t get easier—or more classic—than this. Serve warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream. You’re sure to get rave reviews! View Recipe Recipe For Health December 2014 Pecan and Dark Chocolate Chip Cookies Roasting amps up the flavor in everything including pecans. Chef Kurt's attention to detail takes a traditional chocolate chip cookie to another level of yum! View Recipe Browse all recipes Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Find a Class Search Courses Browse all courses Search Health4U Search Health4U Coaching and Counseling Services Coaching and Counseling Services provides you with access to accurate health and lifestyle information, helping you to explore new behaviors and skills, and identifying useful campus and community resources. MSU community members eligible for coaching and counseling services include faculty, staff, graduate assistants, retirees and the spouses/partners of members of these groups. To schedule an appointment with Health4U you are not required to email us from your MSU email address; please email us from the email address you are most comfortable with. Read More Departmental Services The goal of department based services is to provide work units and colleagues the opportunity to learn about health and wellness as a group activity or exploration. Read More Health e-Guide This guide has been discontinued and is no longer viewable. Visit Health e-Guide Health4U Newsletter Stay up-to-date with our current classes by subscribing to any of our newsletters: Rest with Music Program Updates Sign Up Tweets by @MSU_Health4U ©2022 Office of the University Physician All Rights Reserved. Login Call us: (517) 353-8933 Contact Information Privacy Policy Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Spartans Will. © Michigan State University