Skip to Main Content Brown University Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Search Menu Community Response to COVID-19 Healthy Brown Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Breadcrumb Home Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Sub Navigation In This Section Healthy Brown Home Updates Prevention Testing & Isolation Vaccinations Workforce Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies FAQs Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Brown’s current health and safety protocols for visitors and guests also apply to families and guests arriving at Brown for Commencement and Reunion Weekend. Visitors and guests on campus specifically for Commencement and Reunion Weekend, May 27-29, 2022, are considered “limited-duration” visitors under Brown’s COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy. All academic and administrative units and programs are required to follow the University’s policies and current health protocols in place at the time for these visitors for any event or program taking place at Brown related to class reunions and graduation. Masking Requirements On Wednesday, May 25, the University announced the following requirements and protocols, given the high volume of activity and visitors and guests on campus for Commencement and Reunion Weekend and based on consultation with and following the recommendations of the Rhode Island Department of Health: Until further notice, all individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear a well-fitting KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical mask indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space (e.g., office or dorm room) or when actively eating or drinking. The indoor mask requirement applies to all University-sponsored events, on and off campus, taking place during Commencement and Reunion Weekend and to all attendees: faculty, students, staff, families, visitors, guests and vendors. Masks can be removed indoors by a speaker while making a presentation or delivering a speech. Individuals are strongly advised to take a rapid antigen test prior to attending large indoor gatherings. Brown community members, visitors and guests should not attend any University events or functions if they test positive for COVID-19 and/or are experiencing potential symptoms of COVID-19. Limited Duration Visitors Limited-duration visitors are those with visits of three days per month or less. The following protocols apply for these guests: Visitors and guests are not required to submit proof of or attest to vaccination status. Visitors and guests are not required to present proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Guests and visitors are required to abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and any requirements specific to the facility or program they are visiting. NOTE: Departments and programs across Brown are expected to observe University-wide protocols for activities taking place in Brown owned- or leased facilities, and may not establish separate protocols or policies for guests participating in their events during Commencement and Reunion Weekend. Frequently Asked Questions Will providing a negative COVID-19 test result and/or proof of vaccination be required upon arrival or during my visit? Limited-term visitors and guests are not required to submit proof of or attest to vaccination status. Limited-term visitors are classified as those on campus three days per month or less. Visitors and guests are not required to present proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Will masks be required for Commencement and Reunion Weekend? On Wednesday, May 25, the University announced the following requirements and protocols, given the high volume of activity and visitors and guests on campus ifor Commencement and Reunion Weekend and based on consultation with and following the recommendations of the Rhode Island Department of Health: Until further notice, all individuals – regardless of vaccination status – must wear a well-fitting KN95, KF94, N95 or disposable/surgical mask indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space (e.g., office or dorm room) or when actively eating or drinking. The indoor mask requirement applies to all University-sponsored events, on and off campus, taking place during Commencement and Reunion Weekend and to all attendees: faculty, students, staff, families, visitors, guests and vendors. Masks can be removed indoors by a speaker while making a presentation or delivering a speech. Individuals are strongly advised to take a rapid antigen test prior to attending large indoor gatherings. Brown community members, visitors and guests should not attend any University events or functions if they test positive for COVID-19 and/or are experiencing potential symptoms of COVID-19. What if I test positive for COVID-19 while attending Commencement and Reunion Weekend? Does that mean I can no longer attend events I have registered for? Anyone exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19 should contact their medical provider, and individuals who are diagnosed with COVID-19 must self-isolate away from others. Keeping our community healthy is a shared responsibility, and guests should consider the implications for graduating students and their families if COVID-19 were to spread. Any individual traveling to Rhode Island must follow the State of Rhode Island travel requirements, which can be found at covid.ri.gov. What do I do if I or my guests test positive while I am staying in an on-campus dormitory? The University requires that individuals who test positive for COVID-19 self-isolate and stay away from others. Guests must determine if they are able to do so more easily in the dormitory or by traveling home (if they have support in doing so safely). Will hand sanitizer/masks be readily available to attendees during events? Brown has sanitizing stations in its facilities, but many events for Commencement and Reunion Weekend will be outdoors and in unconventional locations. Visitors and guests who choose to wear masks (they are not currently required for most facilities, except for health care and medical research facilities, etc.) are encouraged to bring their own masks and sanitizer. It is left to the discretion of organizers of individual events to provide optional masks and hand sanitizer. Will there be testing sites available on site? Brown does not serve as a public testing site for COVID-19. Visit the Rhode Island Department of Health’s website providing COVID-19 information for travelers to Rhode Island to learn of testing sites and protocols for travelers. Is there the potential that elements of Commencement and Reunion Weekend would be cancelled in the event of growing prevalence of COVID-19? How will I learn of changes in health protocols or requirements? Brown will communicate any changes to Commencement and Reunion Weekend to graduates to share with their families and guests, and with alumni classes invited to Reunion in the event of major shifts in health protocols that affect planning for graduation and celebrations of the reunion classes. Visitors and Guests also can monitor changes in health protocols by visiting the Campus Activity Status page of the Healthy Brown website. Given the increased rates of COVID-19 across the country, we encourage all participants in Commencement and Reunion Weekend to be attentive to precautions recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and follow CDC guidance in instances where the recommended measures can help protect your own health and that of the community. Last updated May 25, 2022. Information on this page may be updated as the University’s planning evolves and/or public health guidance prompts a shift in Brown’s operations and protocols. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Healthy Brown Home Updates Messages to the Community Campus Activity Status Staff Town Halls Prevention About COVID-19 Good Hygiene Cleaning, Air Systems & Water Isolation/Quarantine Education & Prevention Campaign Testing & Isolation COVID-19 Testing Data Isolation Protocols Contact Information Test Kit Pick-up Sites Testing, Masking & Isolation FAQ Vaccinations Safety and Effectiveness Vaccine Availability and Eligibility Verify Your Vaccination Resources Vaccine Working Group Vaccine FAQ Workforce Hybrid and Remote Work Position Classification Guidance Return to Campus UHR Contact Information Visitors & Guests Department Responsibilities for Visitors and Guests Event Visitors, Dining & Catering Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement FAQ Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Athletics & Recreation Travel Policies Travel-related Guidance for Students FAQs This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Open details for Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests Bookmark this Page