Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Forms and Guidelines Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Form Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Form February 07, 2022 Morningside and Manhattanville Students: Please complete this form and submit, with all required documentation, via the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Go to secure.health.columbia.edu and log in with your UNI. Select "Medical Clearances" from the left-hand menu. If you are supplying immunization documents: Click "Update" next to Immunization Record Click "Upload" and attach the form and required documentation. Accepted formats are gif, jpg, png, and pdf. There is a 4 MB file size limit. If the item is legible, click the "Looks Good" button; then click the "Save" button. If you are using Columbia University MMR Form (linked below): Preview, download, and complete the Columbia University MMR Form Section I is to be completed by the student Section II is to be filled out by a healthcare provider. The healthcare provider must sign, stamp, and date the bottom of the form Click "Upload" and attach the form and required documentation. Accepted formats are gif, jpg, png, and pdf. There is a 4 MB file size limit. If the item is legible, click the "Looks Good" button; then click the "Save" button. After you upload and submit your entry, the University will review your request. Allow at least 15 business days for processing. Read this guide for step-by-step instructions. Download the form: health_immunization_mmr_form_a.pdf1017.52 KB Document Categories Forms Document Topics Immunization Compliance Medical Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close