Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Communication Sciences & Disorders Innovative Delivering online care Impactful Speech-pathology alumna's project influences state legislation > Communication Sciences & Disorders > Communication Sciences & Disorders https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ COMMUNICATIONS SCIENCES & DISORDERS Communication Sciences & Disorders Undergraduate Programs Communication Sciences & Disorders Graduate Programs Student Achievement Data Speech & Hearing Clinic Annual Route 66 Conference Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information The University of Tulsa is seeking reaccreditation with the Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA). A meeting will be held for public comment on Monday, February 14th at 5pm. The meeting will be virtual via zoom. Please contact CAA or Dr. Suzanne Stanton with the University of Tulsa if you would like to attend the meeting. A copy of the Standards for Accreditation and/or the CAA’s Policy on Public Comment may be obtained by contacting the Accreditation Office at ASHA, 2200 Research Boulevard, #310, Rockville, Maryland 20850, calling ASHA’s Action Center at 1-800-498-2071, or accessing the documents online at https://caa.asha.org/ The master of science degree in speech-language pathology combines academic coursework and practical experience to prepare students to evaluate, treat, and conduct research with persons with communication and swallowing disorders in any professional setting. The program in speech-language pathology takes two years of full time study; specifically, year one includes the fall, spring and the summer semesters, and year two includes the fall and spring semesters. The curriculum covers the knowledge and skills outlined by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA) required for certification as a speech-language pathologist, licensure from the Oklahoma Board of Examiners in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology, and certification for working in the public schools. Additionally, successful graduates are prepared to apply for doctoral study in speech-language pathology and to assume leadership positions in professional organizations. The University of Tulsa’s Master of Science in Speech-Language Pathology is rated as one of the best programs in the U.S. by SpeechPathologyGraduatePrograms.org: “The University of Tulsa SLP master’s program combines excellent Praxis exam pass rates with strong on-time completion rates and a 100 percent employment rate among graduates to make it an excellent choice for students in the heartland.” 100%: That’s the proportion of our spring 2020 M.S. in speech-language pathology graduates who passed their Praxis exam subject tests in spring/summer 2020. These first-time test-takers studied hard, rose to the challenge and are now well on the way to meaningful careers making a measurable impact on their clients’ lives. 2018’s Top SLP Master’s Programs Program Objectives Students who complete the master’s program in speech-language pathology will demonstrate: Knowledge of basic human communication and swallowing processes, including the appropriate biological, neurological, acoustic, psychological, developmental and linguistic and cultural bases. The applicant must have demonstrated the ability to integrate information pertaining to normal and abnormal human development across the life span. Knowledge of communication and swallowing disorders and differences, including the appropriate etiologies, characteristics, anatomical/physiological, acoustic, psychological, developmental and linguistic and cultural correlates in the following areas: -speech sound production, to encompass articulation, motor planning and execution, phonology, and accent modifiction -fluency and fluency disorders -voice and resonance, including respiration and phonation -receptive and expressive language (phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, prelinguistic communication and paralinguistic communication) in speaking, listening, reading writing -hearing, including the impact on speech and language -swallowing and feeding (oral, pharyngeal, esophageal and related functions, including oral function for feeding, orofacial myology) -cognitive aspects of communication (attention, memory, sequencing, problem-solving and executive functioning) -social aspects of communication (including challenging behavior, ineffective social skills and lack of communication opportunities) -augmentative and alternative communication modalities For each of the areas specified above, the applicant must have demonstrated current knowledge of the principles and methods of prevention, assessment and intervention for people with communication and swallowing disorders, including consideration of anatomical/physiological, psychological, developmental and linguistic and cultural correlates. The applicant must have demonstrated knowledge of the principles and rules of the current ASHA Code of Ethics and ethical conduct. The applicant must have demonstrated knowledge of processes used in research and of the integration of research principles into evidence-based clinical practice. The applicant must have demonstrated knowledge of contemporary professional issues. The applicant must have demonstrated knowledge of entry level and advanced certifications, licensure and other relevant professional credentials, as well as local, state and national regulations and policies relevant to professional practice. The applicant must have demonstrated skills in oral and written or other forms of communication sufficient for entry into professional practice. The following skills outcomes: Evaluation a. Conduct screening and prevention procedures (including prevention activities). b. Collect case history information and integrate information from clients/patients, family, caregivers, teachers and relevant others, including other professionals. c. Select and administer appropriate evaluation procedures, such as behavioral observations, nonstandardized and standardized tests and instrumental procedures. d. Adapt evaluation procedures to meet client/patient needs. e. Interpret, integrate and synthesize all information to develop diagnoses and make appropriate recommendations for intervention. f. Complete administrative and reporting functions necessary to support evaluation. g. Refer clients/patients for appropriate services. Intervention a. Develop setting-appropriate intervention plans with measurable and achievable goals that meet clients’/patients’ needs. Collaborate with clients/patients and relevant others in the planning process. b. Implement intervention plans (involve clients/patients and relevant others in the intervention process). c. Select or develop and use appropriate materials and instrumentation for prevention and intervention. d. Measure and evaluate clients’/patients’ performance and progress. e. Modify intervention plans, strategies, materials or instrumentation as appropriate to meet the needs of clients/patients. f. Complete administrative and reporting functions necessary to support intervention. g. Identify and refer clients/patients for services as appropriate. Interaction and Personal Qualities a. Communicate effectively, recognizing the needs, values, preferred mode of communication and cultural/linguistic background of the client/patient, family, caregivers and relevant others. b. Collaborate with other professionals in case management. c. Provide counseling regarding communication and swallowing disorders to clients/patients, family, caregivers and relevant others. d. Adhere to the ASHA Code of Ethics and behave professionally. Degree Options Speech Language Pathology, M.S. Prepare students to evaluate, treat, and conduct research with persons with communication and swallowing disorders in any professional setting. Accreditation The Master’s of Science (M.S.) education program in speech-language pathology at The University of Tulsa is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language Hearing Association, 2200 Research Boulevard #310, Rockville, Maryland 20850, 800-498-2071 or 301-296-5700. Graduate Research Opportunities Master’s students in speech-language pathology are required to write a graduate research paper or thesis. Opportunities to work with faculty members on research projects in their areas of expertise are available as well as opportunities to present at local, state, and national conferences. The instrumentation and equipment within the department is often used for data acquisition. The University of Tulsa supports undergraduate and graduate research with grants, an annual research colloquium, and some travel funds for presentation. Current research topics in the department include voice changes in women based on hormonal changes, patient satisfaction with the TU Cleft Palate team, perspectives of various groups on the importance of bilingual language development, effects of mild traumatic brain injury on student athlete’s academic performance, and listener’s perspectives of female speech samples. Graduate Admission Prospective graduate students apply for admission through the Graduate School. Entering classes have approximately 20-25 students. Financial aid, scholarships and graduate assistantships may be available to qualified students. For further information, contact the graduate school at the following email address: grad@utulsa.edu Specific admission requirements to the master’s program in speech-language pathology include the following: A baccalaureate from an accredited university or completion of prerequisite coursework An undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.0 An undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.5 in communication disorders courses An official copy of scores from the GRE General test submitted to the Graduate School Two letters of recommendation (at least one academic references) Personal statement (part of the application for the Graduate School*) Students who do not meet these minimum requirements may be considered for provisional or probationary admissions at the discretion of the graduate program adviser and faculty of the Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders. Students lacking a bachelor’s degree in speech-language pathology must complete undergraduate leveling courses in the discipline before being considered for admission to the graduate program. Contact kris-foyil@utulsa.edu for information about leveling courses. *Please respond in one or two paragraphs to one of the prompts listed below: What motivated you to study speech-language pathology? What area of communication and swallowing disorders is most interesting to you at this time and why? What are the reasons that you want to obtain your master’s degree in speech-language pathology at The University of Tulsa? Course Fees CDSP Course Fees here: CDSP Course Fees for web updated 2021. Strategic Plan CDSP Strategic Plan here: CDSP Strategic plan 20-23 for web. Typical Degree Program and Graduation Requirements Grad Tracking 2021 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT