Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search Mandatory self-reporting of COVID-19 status to Stanford We need our community – faculty, staff, students and postdocs – to let Stanford know if you are awaiting test results (currently self-isolating) or have tested positive for COVID-19, or if you are sick with certain COVID-19 symptoms (see below). This is both to connect you to resources that can support you, and to help the university assess the impacts of the virus in our community. The university is requiring the following notifications: Undergraduate, graduate and professional students If you are expected to be on campus/were recently on campus and sick (100+ degree fever AND one of the following: worsening cough OR shortness of breath OR severe fatigue + muscle aches) OR are awaiting test results OR have tested COVID-positive: Contact Vaden Health Services. No formal notification is needed if you are experiencing only mild symptoms (sore throat, headache, mild fatigue, muscle aches, nausea or diarrhea). Faculty, staff & postdocs (non-hospital based) If you are expected to be on campus/were recently on campus and sick (100+ degree fever AND one of the following: worsening cough OR shortness of breath OR severe fatigue + muscle aches) OR are awaiting test results OR have tested COVID-positive: Re-submit your Health Check. No formal notification is needed if you are experiencing only mild symptoms (sore throat, headache, mild fatigue, muscle aches, nausea or diarrhea). Employees of Stanford Health Care If you are sick (100+ degree fever AND one of the following: worsening cough OR shortness of breath OR severe fatigue + muscle aches) OR are experiencing mild symptoms (sore throat, headache, mild fatigue, muscle aches, nausea or diarrhea) OR are awaiting test results OR have tested COVID-positive: Call Stanford Hospital Occupational Health Services (650-723-5922) On this page Undergraduate, graduate & professional students Postdocs Faculty & staff (non-hospital based) Employees of Stanford Health Care Testing, prevention & care What should I do if I'm feeling ill? Where can I get tested? How do I get vaccinated? Personal care & prevention Campus hygiene Social distancing protocol Report test results/symptoms Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.