Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Public Health and Human Sciences » Academics » Nutrition Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Undergraduate Dietetics Nutrition and Health Sciences Nutrition in Foodservice, Culinary and Food Systems NFS Info Sheet Nutrition minor Graduate MS in Nutrition PhD in Nutrition Nutrition Ph.D. student directory How to apply Contact Dietetics Programs Dietetics How to become an RDN Prospective Students DPD Program Philosophy, Mission, Goals and Objectives DPD Program Description, Admission, Degree Requirements & Schedule DPD Opportunities for Engagement DPD Verification Statements DPD FAQ Dietetic Internship Philosophy, concentration, goals & non-discrimination Description, Schedule, Rotations, Program Outcomes, and Completion Program Costs FAQ Apply MS-PD Internship Faculty Undergraduate Dietetics Nutrition and Health Sciences Nutrition in Foodservice, Culinary and Food Systems NFS Info Sheet Nutrition minor Graduate MS in Nutrition PhD in Nutrition Nutrition Ph.D. student directory How to apply Contact Dietetics Programs Dietetics How to become an RDN Prospective Students DPD Program Philosophy, Mission, Goals and Objectives DPD Program Description, Admission, Degree Requirements & Schedule DPD Opportunities for Engagement DPD Verification Statements DPD FAQ Dietetic Internship Philosophy, concentration, goals & non-discrimination Description, Schedule, Rotations, Program Outcomes, and Completion Program Costs FAQ Apply MS-PD Internship Faculty Nutrition undergraduate degree program Nutrition Undergraduate Program Study nutrition for a fresh take on food. Corvallis Plan a visit How to apply A holistic view of human nutrition A balanced diet is one of the most powerful ways to get and manage health. With an Oregon State bachelor of science degree in nutrition, you’ll have the opportunity to equip others with that power. As a nutrition major, you’ll get up close and personal with macro and micro nutrients, but also learn to take a holistic approach that considers behavioral and social contexts. Request info Loading... Sample nutrition courses Community nutrition Communications in dietetics Issues in nutrition and health Nutrition and exercise Nutrition through the lifecycle Nutrition and social marketing As a nutrition major at Oregon State, you’ll... Understand the behaviors and social factors behind dietary choices. Learn how food can help manage diseases and reduce the risk of others. Create healthy meals and menus using local ingredients. Practice counseling individuals who want to improve their overall health. Oregon State University offers the only didactic program in dietetics in Oregon. Nutrition major options Each option within the nutrition major aligns with various careers in food and nutrition. Dietetics Nutrition and Health Sciences Nutrition in Foodservice, Culinary and Food Systems Nutrition and dietetics club Join the Nutrition and Dietetics Club to learn more about a career in nutrition and dietetics, volunteer in the community, and educate your community about health and nutrition. Learn more Through a paid summer fellowship program, nutrition students work in communities across Oregon to improve health, nutrition and the food environment. Dietetics student Galen Bizovi worked with the Master Preserver Program and learned about community outreach and social marketing campaigns. Read more From nutrition to medical school The nutrition and health sciences option is a great stepping stone on your way to a physician assistant program, medical school or pharmacy school. Explore pre-med options What will you do with a nutrition degree? According to the U.S. Department of Labor, dietetics and nutrition jobs are projected to grow at a rate of 11 percent from 2018 to 2028, much faster than the average for all occupations. Study nutrition for careers in: *These roles may require post-baccalaureate/graduate/professional education to qualify. Community nutrition Dietetics* Eating disorder treatment Farm-to-table coordinator Fitness and wellness centers Food production industry Foodservice purchasing Grocery store nutrition Hospitals, clinics, rehab centers Nursing* Nutrition education* Sustainable foodservice Wellness/prevention programs Dana Bean, ‘19 CPHHS dietetic intern at the University of Northern Colorado “There is a lot of different information out there about nutrition, and everyone has an opinion. I wanted to go to the source of truth and find out what is actually true." We're here to help Email Chad, our college guide, for questions about the application process and requirements. If you have questions regarding classes, student clubs or campus, our peer advisors would love to chat. Call or email them for advice. How to transfer Change my major Minors and certificates Join a student club Talk to our campus guide 541-737-7205 Dietetics Nutrition and Health Sciences Nutrition in Foodservice, Culinary and Food Systems Nutrition minor ‹ Nutrition up Dietetics › Contact Info College of Public Health and Human Sciences 160 SW 26th St, Corvallis OR 97331 Land Acknowledgement ©2022 Oregon State University Contact 541.737.3220 Website Issue? Privacy Disclaimer and Accessibility Information Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram