Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Nursing Undergraduate Programs Externships Learning while doing Fresh start From fighters to healers > School of Nursing > Nursing Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ NURSING Nursing Undergraduate Programs Nursing Graduate Programs Nursing Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The Mission of the BSN is here: Baccalaureate Nursing Program Mission A Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree prepares students to assume leadership roles within their organization and prepares them to enter graduate programs. At TU, we offer a pre-licensure program for students who want to enter the nursing profession as a registered nurse. The program prepares the student for the nursing licensure exam (NCLEX). Students benefit from strong community relationships with local healthcare providers, excellent experiential learning activities, and highly personalized learning opportunities to help students make connections with passionate mentors and alumni. Students begin clinical experiences during the spring semester of their sophomore year. This gives students five semesters to develop their clinical skills whereas most programs incorporate four. Students can gain experience at a number of area hospitals and community agencies preparing them for employment in a range of health care settings after graduation. See student achievement data for the BSN program here. The School of Nursing BSN program has accreditation by the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing, 3343 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 850, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, 404-975-5000 and program approval by the Oklahoma Board of Nursing. It is a member of the Council on Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. Program Objectives End of Program Student Learning Outcomes Students who complete the undergraduate program in Nursing will demonstrate achievement of competencies appropriate to role preparation. Specifically, students will be able to: (Learning Outcomes) Value the dignity and worth of humans, acknowledging biopsychosocial and cultural stimuli that influence adaption Utilize adaption theory in decision making and assisting individuals, families and communities to achieve their maximum level of adaption Use problem-solving skills, critical thinking, independent judgment and continual evaluation to improve nursing care Evaluate and utilize research and theoretical and empirical knowledge from the humanities and physical and behavioral sciences in nursing practice Utilize leadership skills, accepting responsibility and being accountable for choice of nursing interventions to promote adaptation Collaborate with colleagues on the interdisciplinary health team and serve as an advocate to promote health and welfare of clients through the political and professional process Participate in identifying local, state and national health needs and effective changes to improve health care Pursue further development of self and the profession in order to promote quality health care BSN Clinical Experiences Nursing students begin their clinical experience during the spring semester of the sophomore year with their first Nursing Interventions course and continue through their senior year. Students will have experiences in acute care agencies, clinics, home health agencies, hospices, schools, child care facilities and long-term care agencies. Clinical Course Hours per Week Clincal Experience NSG 2273 Nursing Interventions I 9 Lab, child care, long-term care NSG 3174 Nursing Interventions II 12 Medical-surgical, obstetrical, home visits and health fairs NSG 3274 Nursing Interventions III 12 Medical-surgical, pediatrics, community health settings NSG 4174 Nursing Interventions IV 12 Medical-surgical, psychiatric (acute and community), community clinics NSG 4275 Nursing Interventions V 15 Leadership Experience in Hospital Major Clinical Agencies Hillcrest Medical Center Laureate Psychiatric Clinic and Hospital Saint Francis Hospital St. John Medical Center Practice Settings Community Health Home Health Hospital Hospital Administrator Long-Term Care Facility Rehabilitation Facility Education Research Business and Industry Degree Options Nursing, B.S.N. Prepares students for licensure examination and employment in hospital, clinic and community health agencies. Pre-licensure BSN Admission & Financial Aid Offers of admission to the program are conditional pending receipt and evaluation of all items listed below. • Copies of all transcripts from other colleges/universities • 10 panel drug testing by SAMHSA Certified Lab (report sent by lab directly to School of Nursing) • Criminal background check including Oklahoma Department of Corrections Sex Offenders Registration List (check is conducted by the school) • Performance Standards for Admission and Progression in the Bachelor of Science in Nursing Documentation of the following is due by August 15. • MMR (Measles/Mumps/Rubella) • Tdap (Tetanus/Diphtheria) renew every 10 years • Hepatitis B (or sign waiver) • TB screening (due yearly) or chest x-ray (initial screening is a two-step process) • Documentation of varicella (chicken pox) or vaccination • American Heart Association “Health Care Provider” CPR certification The University of Tulsa does not require minimum specifications for student owned devices. Any modern computer purchased from a reputable manufacturer such as Dell, HP, Lenovo, Apple, etc… will be sufficient. The computer must have Internet access and the ability to view/edit Microsoft Office documents such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. The University of Tulsa provides active students with a free license for Microsoft Office, the software is available for download at: https://office.utulsa.edu/ Once admitted to The University of Tulsa, all qualified undergraduate students who have declared nursing as a major are provisionally accepted into the Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program. For full admission to the nursing program, students must complete an application. Non-TU Transfer students – Click here to apply Freshmen TU students – Click here to apply Applications will be reviewed beginning on February 1st and must be completed prior to July 31st to begin in the fall semester. Full admission to the program is confirmed, via a letter sent to the student, when the provisionally accepted student meets all academic and professional requirements and standards as defined by The University of Tulsa, the Oklahoma Board of Nursing, accrediting bodies, and local hospitals. These requirements include: a C or higher in BIOL 2153 Human Anatomy, BIOL 2151 Human Anatomy Laboratory, BIOL 2173 Human Physiology, and BIOL 2171 Human Physiology Laboratory a cumulative grade-point average of 3.0 to be admitted to the Level I sophomore nursing courses. If there are unfilled seats in Level I sophomore nursing courses, applicants with cumulative grade-point averages of less than 3.0 may be considered for admission. AHS 2133 Life Span Processes or PSY 3063 Developmental Psychology, AHS 2122 Normal Nutrition, and NSG 1012 Overview of Nursing must be completed prior to the spring sophomore courses Prospective nursing students whose first language is not English must have a minimum TOEFL score of 85 on the internet-based examination with sub-score of 26 for speaking or have an IELTS overall score of 7.5, not less than a 7 speaking sub-score and no other sub-scores below 6.5. Foreign college credit requires a “Full Education Course-by-Course Report” by the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools prior to admission to the School of Nursing. Advanced standing may be obtained with approval of courses on college transcripts. Financial Aid The University of Tulsa recognizes that financing a quality college education is often difficult, and we are dedicated to providing equal access to all qualified students. Upon being admitted to The University of Tulsa, if eligible, scholarship assistance is determined by the Office of Admission. Federal and state aid, which consists of grants, work-study and loans are available through the university’s Office of Student Financial Services. To receive federal/state aid students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) listing TU’s school code on the FAFSA (003185). If additional information is needed by Student Financial Services in order to determine eligibility for financial aid, communication will occur through the student’s TU email account. Additional funds may be awarded directly to the students by Tulsa hospitals for their junior and senior years. Students repay these additional funds by working for the funding institution after graduation. Out-of-town students who plan to return home after graduation should check with their local hospitals for similar financial assistance. Other sites students should check for nursing scholarships: Indian Health Service. Provides nursing scholarships for American Indians and Alaskan Native students. National Student Nurses Association. Provides nursing scholarships for active members with excellent academic records. CampusRN and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN). Offer scholarships for students pursuing professional nursing education programs. The site also contains a listing of nursing scholarships. Nursing Scholarship. Nursing Scholarship Program provides support for tuition, fees and books as well as a monthly stipend. National Coalition of Ethnic Minority Nurse Associations, Inc. Five national ethnic nurse associations provide nursing scholarships. This site provides the email addresses to each association president, who will send scholarship information. Oklahoma PMTC Nursing Student Assistance Program. A program established in 1982 to provide financial assistance to Oklahoma nursing students pursuing LPN, ADN, BSN or MSN degrees. The scholarship loan is repaid by practicing nursing in Oklahoma, with emphasis placed on rural communities. Pre-licensure BSN Four Year Schedule Nursing courses begin during the fall semester of the Sophomore year. Students must apply and be admitted prior to taking nursing courses. Courses are taken in the order listed. FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation Elective Mathematical Functions Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Human Anatomy + Lab * Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block II - In Sickness and in Health Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation First Year Experience Human Physiology + Lab * Introduction to Spreadsheets SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER NSG 1012, Overview of Nursing Applied Science I Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Nursing Science I Lifespan Processes * Nursing Interventions Chemistry in Medicine (Block III) * Pharmacology Normal Nutrition * Microbiology for Health Professionals Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Applied Science II Applied Science III Nursing Science II Nursing Science III Nursing Intervention II Nursing Intervention III Statistics I Introduction to Applied Health Care Research SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Applied Science IV Nursing Science V Nursing Science IV Nursing Intervention V Nursing Intervention IV Nursing Trends Elective Writing for the Professions Elective * Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. Baccalaureate Nursing Program Mission The Mission of The University of Tulsa Baccalaureate Nursing Program is to educate students who will become accomplished entry-level health care professionals and will advance health professions through clinical service, research and health teaching. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT