Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences > Advanced practice nursing alumna strives to eliminate health care disparities in rural Oklahoma Advanced practice nursing alumna strives to eliminate health care disparities in rural Oklahoma March 18, 2021 Molly Hannagan (BSN ’98, DNP ’19) was among the first cohort to graduate from The University of Tulsa’s doctor of nursing practice (DNP) program, which provides advanced practice nursing students with the opportunity to expand their education through extensive hands-on and clinical experiences. Completing the program’s family nurse practitioner (FNP) stream, Hannagan gained the knowledge and skills required to provide primary care to people of all ages in a wide array of settings. First day of treating and testing for COVID-19 (March 20, 2020) Shortly after graduation, Hannagan was hired by Morton Comprehensive Health Services in Tulsa. After working there for a few months, Morton relocated Hannagan to its clinic in Nowata, Oklahoma, where she now serves as that facility’s primary care nurse practitioner. The clinic delivers a variety of services, such as acute sickness visits, chronic health condition management, physical exams and women’s health care. Hannagan herself cares primarily for all ages birth to death; currently, her oldest patient is 98 years old. “Molly has always been in the top of her class and has a desire to improve patient outcomes” said FNP Director Sheryl Stansifer. “She is knowledgeable, dependable and genuinely cares for her patients. She is a perfect fit for the Nowata clinic.” Serving a rural community Nowata is a rural community in the northeastern part of the state, with a population of approximately 3,000. A significant portion of Nowata’s residents lives below the poverty line, making it difficult for everyone to have equal access to health care. Hannagan’s clinic works to eliminate that disparity. Morton Comprehensive Health Services is a Federal Qualified Health Center (FHQC). As an FHQC, its clinics provide patients with care no matter their financial situation. “We treat both patients who have insurance and those who do not, and we provide services that are income based on a sliding scale,” Hannagan explained. “Our clinic has lots of available resources and grants that ensure patients get the treatment, medication and services they need to get well and stay well.” Hannagan credits her time in TU’s DNP program with opening her eyes to health care policies and legislation and how they impact different communities. Well-prepared to care From a medical perspective, Hannagan also noted that TU’s FNP stream “directly prepared me to provide primary care at my clinic. I use my degree every day to diagnose and treat my patients.” Within the program, Hannagan gained experience in a variety of different medical fields, as well as pathophysiology, disease process and pharmacology. She recalls numerous hours spent learning how to perform thorough assessments and physical examinations in order to establish a diagnosis and treatment plan. Hannagan also benefited from access to state-of-the-art labs and clinical situations that gave her hands-on learning experiences. Testing for COVID-19 “I was placed with great precetpors at each of my clinical sites,” Hannagan said. “It was at the Henryetta ER where I was first exposed to rural health. During my time there, I worked with Dr. Carl Glidden learning to suture, evaluate diagnostic imaging and perform minor procedures.” She went on to gain experience in rural health at the Xavier clinic, which serves a largely non-insured Hispanic population. “I learned how to manage diabetes, and I even learned how to perform a head-to-toe assessment in Spanish there,” she recalled. Hannagan also credits the DNP program with developing her skills beyond medicine. In particular, she notes that she was able to cultivate valuable leadership and communication skills. These skills allow her to work effectively with team members from multiple disciplines and backgrounds, both inside and outside the clinic. Continuing to learn and grow Working at the Nowata clinic affords this lifelong learner daily opportunities to increase her knowledge and skills. With the chaos of the COVID-19 pandemic, for instance, Hannagan has had to learn how to be adaptable to ever-changing workplace conditions. “My company has provided sound policies and procedures based on the current information, despite how often it changed,” she remarked. “I have access to all the personal protective equipment I need, as well as to all the testing supplies and medication my patients need. I am grateful for that support, as well as for the fact I have not contracted COVID-19.” Hannagan with her oldest patient and another nurse Hannagan advocates that BSN-prepared nurses with an interest in advancing their professional practice should consider TU’s FNP pathway: “It will be hard, but so worth it. Don’t let anything stop you. Being a family nurse practitioner in a rural setting and building relationships with my patients and improving their health care outcomes is proving to be the most rewarding experience of my life.” TU’s doctor of nursing practice (DNP) program gives students the ability to make real and lasting change in their communities. Learn more about the DNP program’s four pathways and how they can empower you to deliver superior care for your patients. Alumni, Doctor of Nursing Practice, Featured, Health Sciences, News, Nursing, Stories COVID-19, family nurse practitioner, Molly Hannagan, rural health care Categories Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Biological Science Business Career Services Commitment Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Communication Sciences & Disorders Community Service Computer Science Diversity Doctor of Nursing Practice Engineering and Natural Sciences Exercise & Sports Science Experiential Learning Faculty Family Nurse Practitioner Featured Global Education Health Care Delivery Sciences Health Sciences IDEAS: A 21st-century health blog Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Law School News Nursing President Research Schweitzer Fellowship Stories Student Stories study abroad True Blue uncategorized veterans 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT