Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences School of Nursing Leading the way 3D virtual reality education 918-631-3116 Oxley Health Sciences Facility Map Email https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ NURSING Nursing Undergraduate Programs Nursing Graduate Programs Nursing Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department The School of Nursing has a long history of educating students in a pre-licensure nursing program. Since its first graduating class in 1973, The University of Tulsa has graduated more than 1,400 students with the bachelor of science in nursing degree. Graduates are prepared for employment in hospital and community health agencies. Job opportunities abound for TU nursing alumni. The high demand for nurses is expected to continue for the next 20 years. In addition to a bachelor of science in nursing, the school also offers a doctor of nursing practice program to meet the health care needs of our community. TU boasts the state’s highest ranked DNP program for 2023, according to U.S. News & World Report. Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Bachelor of Science in Nursing A Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree prepares students to assume leadership roles within their organization and prepares them to enter graduate programs. The pre-licensure option prepares students enter the nursing profession as a registered nurse. Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Doctor of Nursing Practice The Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) program prepares nurses for a career as a nurse practitioner or provides an opportunity for APRNs to advance their careers. The program offers the following full-time BSN to DNP clinical options: Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Family Nurse Practitioner Nurse Anesthesia An MSN to DNP option is available for APRNs who hold a master’s degree and meet other program admission requirements. Accreditation The Bachelor of Science in Nursing program has accreditation by the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing, 3343 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 850, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, 404-975-5000 and program approval by the Oklahoma Board of Nursing. It is a member of the Council on Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs of the National League for Nursing and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. 3343 Peachtree Road, Suite 850 Atlanta, GA 30326 404-975-5000 www.acenursing.org The DNP program has also been accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN), and it has been approved by the Oklahoma Board of Nursing. The School of Nursing is a member of the National League for Nursing and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. Graduates of the program are eligible to apply to sit for national board certification in their respective field of study. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT