Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Eating Disorders Eating Disorders The eating disorders team understands the journey toward recovery can be a long and challenging one. For some students, treatment may require a higher level of care than what can be provided by Columbia Health. Therefore, the team is dedicated to assisting students in need of more intensive services (e.g., an intensive outpatient program) in identifying and getting connected with these services in the community, as recommended. Team members may also coordinate various outreach and educational on-campus activities related to eating concerns, weight management, nutrition, and body image. Expand all Collapse all Mental Health Professionals on the Eating Disorders Team Annette Santiago-Espana, Psychologist and Associate Director for Eating Disorders Team Annette has over 15 years of experience providing individual and group therapy and psychoeducational outreach to students with a range of eating concerns and has served as the clinical team leader since 2007. She has presented at national and international conferences on the treatment of eating disorders and is a member of the Academy for Eating Disorders. She has conducted research on the impact of acculturation, depression, and body dissatisfaction on disordered eating and continues to be curious about social, cultural, and interpersonal factors that may contribute to the development and maintenance of eating disorders. Annette believes the journey toward recovery can be a challenging one but with the appropriate level of support from a multidisciplinary team of eating disorder professionals, students can learn healthy ways of coping with stressful situations; improve their relationships with food, self and others; develop problem-solving skills; improve body image; and maintain a healthy, balanced lifestyle. Annette is fluent in Spanish. Weiyen Chung, Psychologist Weiyen joined the Eating Disorders team in 2019. She is a licensed Clinical Psychologist and is interested in symptoms of anxiety, perfectionism, and their role in eating concerns, particularly with newer culture shifts towards “healthy” and “clean” eating. She aims to develop a collaborative environment in order to identify adaptive strategies for individuals to improve their relationship to food and maintain a balanced and healthy lifestyle. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta, Psychologist Dr. Eduvigis Cruz-Arrieta joined the Eating Disorder team in February 2018. She is a licensed clinical psychologist with 20 years of experience, most recently focused on behavioral health approaches to staying healthy at any size. She brings her experiences as a woman, a bilingual emigrant with a multicultural inheritance, a former dancer, and a seasoned psychotherapist to her understanding of people's relationships to their bodies. Jennifer Dunbar, Licensed Clinical Social Worker Jennifer joined the eating disorders team in 2021 as a licensed clinical social worker. Prior to Columbia she worked alongside physicians and psychiatrists in a primary care clinic and believes in treating individuals holistically utilizing an interdisciplinary care team. Jennifer has a clinical interest in the effect of culture on the development of eating disorders/body image issues. She uses a culturally informed and strengths-based approach to develop a therapeutic alliance with her patients. Renee Gibbs, Psychologist Renee Gibbs joined Columbia Health and the CPS Eating Disorder Treatment Team in 2020 after nine years of psychology practice in the Department of Veterans Affairs. Dr. Gibbs provided treatment and led program development efforts in eating disorder treatment and training at the VA, including serving as the national lead trainer and consultant for the Eating Disorder Initiative. Additionally, she was the clinician investigator for a research clinical trial that evaluated a treatment protocol for Binge Eating Disorder (BED) at the PRIME Innovation research program at VA Connecticut. She primarily practices eating disorder treatment from a cognitive-behavioral treatment orientation and is devoted to providing interdisciplinary care with the Eating Disorders treatment team. Lucia Haladjian, Psychologist Dr. Lucia Haladjian joined the eating disorders team in January 2021. Prior to working at CPS, she completed a pre-doctoral internship at a community mental health clinic, Hamilton-Madison House with a rotation at Gracie-Square Hospital at NewYork Presbyterian Hospital. Her specialized training includes psychodynamic interpersonal and relational therapy, dialectical behavioral therapy, and cognitive behavioral approaches for individuals coping with eating disorders and comorbid anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, and trauma-related issues. She is especially dedicated to utilizing these approaches to address immigration and first-generation stressors including acculturation and adjustment, gender-related discrimination, and intergenerational trauma and healing as they impact body image and eating concerns. Lucia is fluent in German. Doreen Han-Faver, Psychiatrist Doreen has worked for many years as a child and adolescent psychiatrist. One of her main areas of interest is facilitating the emotional and psychological transition to adulthood. Eating disorders sometimes arise during this period of transitions. She understands that while a person may or may not be particularly distressed by eating disorder symptoms, these symptoms often do represent stress in one or more areas of a person’s life such as social, emotional, academics, and family. She takes a multidisciplinary approach in helping people recover from eating disorders. Doreen is fluent in Mandarin. Alexandra Lane, Postdoctoral Fellow Alexandra has worked in the Eating Disorder units at the University of Miami and Johns Hopkins University. Her research focuses on acculturation processes. Her interests include the relationship between body image and disordered eating. She uses literature, film and art in her therapeutic work. Expand all Collapse all Medical Services Professionals on the Eating Disorders Team Colby Golder, nutritionist Colby joined the eating disorders team in 2013 and has been working with those struggling with eating disorders and eating concerns for 9 years. Prior to coming to Columbia, Colby honed her skills as a dietitian at eating disorder treatment centers. She was involved in every level of therapeutic care, including the day program, the intensive outpatient program (IOP), and individual nutrition counseling. She gained vast experience in nutrition therapy for those struggling with anorexia, bulimia, binge eating disorder, compulsive exercise, and other forms of disordered eating. Colby has also presented at national conferences on the treatment and care of eating disorders. Colleen Eng, DO Doctor Eng is a board-certified family physician who also performs osteopathic manipulative treatment. She has spent her career practicing as a family physician in Philadelphia and New York City. Doctor Eng received her medical degree from the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey School of Osteopathic Medicine and completed her residency at Aria Health (formerly Frankford Hospital) where she served as chief resident. Roseann Neuberg, FNP Roseann is a board certified family nurse practitioner. She began her career in women's health, working at several hospitals and two birthing centers, as well as Planned Parenthood. She transitioned to student health, when she worked at Fordham University Health Service for 12 years. She enjoys the diversity of student health and focuses on education and prevention as integral parts of treatment. Tahshann S. Richards, DO, MPH Doctor Richards is a board-certified family physician with special interests in reproductive health, behavioral health, health promotion, and osteopathic manipulative medicine. After receiving her medical degree from the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey (now Rowan University), Dr. Richards completed her family medicine residency at St. Barnabas Hospital. She spent the early part of her career as staff physician in St. Barnabas Hospital’s adolescent medicine department, where she helped write and implement a New York State Department of Health Comprehensive Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention (CAPP) grant. While there, she also helped develop the Teen Health Center and Supporting Youth Development programs. Prior to her transition to college health, she served as associate program director of the Family Medicine Residency at St. Barnabas Hospital. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions Who should I contact for a medical issue related to an eating concern? Contact Medical Services at 212-854-7426. Who should I contact if I wish to see a counselor for an eating disorder? Schedule an appointment with Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878. I have a friend who has an eating disorder. What should I do? The Eating Disorders team can also coach and consult with concerned friends, roommates, parents, athletic staff, deans, residence-life staff, and faculty. Other Resources National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders National Eating Disorders Association About Face National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, our offices are currently closed. If you are experiencing high levels of distress and are in need of immediate assistance, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Body Image Concerns Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close