Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Travel Medicine Travel Medicine Columbia Health offers a specific set of services related to international travel for free to students enrolled in Columbia Health: Recommendations for immunizations Vaccinations Travel assessments are available by appointment only. To make a travel assessment appointment, email Medical Services at [email protected]. Appointments are scheduled with a provider who will review your travel itinerary and a nurse who will administer recommended vaccines. Visit the Service Fees page for vaccine prices. We recommend that the initial assessment be set up well in advance of the departure date, as some vaccinations may require six weeks to several months and multiple visits to complete the series. Please make an appointment at the same time you reserve the tickets for your trip. For updated travel alerts and precautionary measures related to COVID-19, Zika virus, malaria, dengue, chikungunya, MERS, or Ebola, be sure to visit the Centers for Disease Control travel information website. Faculty and staff traveling outside of the U.S. should contact the Columbia Benefits Service Center to find out about benefits coverage. Prior to Your Assessment Complete the online questionnaire or respond to the email questionnaire sent to students after they make an appointment. Collect as much information regarding immunization history and have it available. Original documents are not necessary. Prescriptions Students traveling overseas for an extended period should plan in advance for prescription medication needs, as most insurance plans only allow for a 30-day supply of prescription medications. Students insured under the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan should contact Aetna Student Health to request approval for a medication supply (often called “vacation override”) adequate to meet their travel needs. Students who carry other insurance plans should contact their carrier for more information. Vaccinations We recommend that the initial assessment be set up well in advance of the departure date, as some vaccinations may require six weeks to several months and multiple visits to complete the series. Please make an appointment at the same time you reserve the tickets for your trip. Cancelling or Rescheduling an Appointment Travel assessments are in high demand. As a courtesy to other travelers, students should contact us immediately if they cannot make the scheduled telephone assessment or follow-up appointments. If students do not cancel a scheduled assessment at least 48 hours in advance, they will not be able to schedule another appointment within the same semester. Please keep in mind that students will be responsible for all associated costs. Health Insurance Many travelers may need to purchase additional insurance from companies specifically designed to meet these needs. Students should ask their insurance providers if medical evacuation is included. Students enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan have travel insurance benefits provided by On Call International. While You’re Away When you are away from Columbia and unable to come to Medical Services for an evaluation, you should call or send a secure web message directly to your primary care provider. That way, we are aware of your problem and can prepare a referral for you if necessary. If it is an urgent problem, you can be seen in the emergency room or an urgent care center without a referral. Related Resources State Department Travel Advisories World Health Organization Association for Safe International Road Travel New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Clinical Specialty Physical Health and Wellbeing Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close