Skip to main content Stanford University(link is external) Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts Search COVID-19 Submit Search Menu Home COVID-19 Testing, Prevention & Care COVID dashboards Wastewater Analysis Face covering guidance Symptoms Exposure Testing Positive COVID-19 Vaccinations COVID-19 surveillance testing for faculty, staff and postdocs COVID Surveillance Testing Locations & Hours Overview of gatherings and meetings at Stanford COVID-19 testing options for affiliates Campus hygiene Info for... Students & Postdocs Faculty & Instructors Researchers & Research Administrators Staff Stanford Travelers Parents & Guardians Suppliers & Vendors Visitors Announcements FAQs Prevention & self-care Search this site Submit Search For Stanford Travelers Important Individuals returning or coming to campus following travel must adhere to the following guidelines: Fully vaccinated, returning from domestic travel (outside of California): No period of restricted activity. Not fully vaccinated, returning from domestic or international travel: Restrict activities (i.e., not come to shared spaces) until receiving a negative Day 5 PCR, Color, or rapid antigen test result. (At-home, or otherwise unverifiable, tests are not acceptable.) Fully vaccinated, returning from international travel: Restrict activities (i.e., not come to shared spaces) until receiving a negative Day 0 PCR, Color, or rapid antigen test result. After receiving a negative Day 0 test result but before receiving a negative Day 5 test result, resume in-person activities but refrain from indoor public dining and continue wearing face coverings indoors and in crowded spaces. Students planning travel or returning to campus should review the Student Affairs Travel & Return Testing Guide. Travel to Hawaii, Alaska, and U.S. territories and possessions is considered domestic travel. As with all policies during the COVID-19 pandemic, this guidance is subject to changing health conditions. Due to the financial and logistical complexities that may arise, all travel requires a contingency plan for participants who become COVID positive and need to isolate in place. Please note: Reimbursement for any mandatory quarantine expenses associated with university-sponsored travel is the responsibility of the sending unit or department. On this page, you will find travel guidance, what to do when you return to Stanford from travel and links to frequently asked questions about business travel, cancellations and reimbursements. Travelers are strongly advised to verify travel entry requirements through the Centers for Disease Control and the country of destination. Students, faculty, staff, and postdoctoral scholars booking air fare, hotels, or rental cars for university-sponsored travel must utilize a Stanford Travel booking channel in order to ensure reimbursement. Current status As of May 27 FACULTY, STAFF, POSTDOCS and GRADUATE STUDENTS Fully vaccinated faculty, staff, postdocs, and graduate students are permitted to travel both domestically and internationally without requesting an exception. However, field research that involves clinical or non-clinical human subjects continues to require prior approval. All unvaccinated international travelers must be approved for a travel exception submitted no later than four weeks prior to the proposed departure date. UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS — Effective March 28, 2022 Domestic and International Travel Undergraduates who have been fully vaccinated and have received a booster shot against COVID-19 (or have a Stanford-approved medical or religious accommodation) may travel domestically and internationally for Stanford-related business, including field trips and field research. All travel requires a contingency plan for participants who become COVID positive. We strongly recommend that such travel include a Stanford professional employee, graduate student, or postdoctoral scholar. The BOSP Stanford In New York and Stanford and Washington Programs will continue to operate according to their program requirements. All undergraduate international travelers who have not been fully vaccinated and received a booster shot must be approved for a travel exception submitted at least four weeks prior to the proposed departure date. Travel for undergraduate students is not permitted to countries, regions or cities where the International SOS risk rating (either the medical risk or travel risk) is “High” or “Extreme,” or where there is other reliable information of significant health or safety risks for the location. To determine a location’s International SOS medical and travel risk ratings, please visit this page. Effective June 13, 2022 Effective June 13, 2022, subject to the restrictions below, domestic and international travel will be permitted for all individuals who are fully vaccinated and have received a booster shot. DOMESTIC TRAVEL: Undergraduate students who wish to travel domestically, but are not fully vaccinated (including a booster shot) are discouraged from domestic travel. Although there is no process to request an exception for domestic travel, units sponsoring/funding such travel are encouraged to consider this in their COVID contingency planning. INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL: Undergraduate students who wish to travel internationally, but are not fully vaccinated and have not received a booster shot, must submit an exception request at least 4 weeks prior to their travel deadline. COVID contingency plans are the responsibility of the sponsoring/funding/sending unit regardless of vaccination status. Per the Provost’s International Travel Policy, travel for undergraduate students will not be permitted to countries, regions or cities where the International SOS risk rating (either the medical risk or travel risk) is “High” or “Extreme,” or where there is other reliable information of significant health or safety risks for the location of intended travel. To determine a location’s International SOS medical and travel risk ratings, please visit this page. ALL TRAVEL: As noted above, the University is advising all campus units that fund or sponsor travel for business, research, study abroad and experiential learning opportunities to be prepared to fund and support any mandatory quarantines associated with university-sponsored travel. All undergraduate travel requires a plan for participants that become COVID positive and need to isolate in place. Resources: Travel Restrictions, Flight Operations, Screening, Testing International SOS – Stanford’s third party global risk service provider https://pandemic.internationalsos.com/2019-ncov/ncov-travel-restrictions-flight-operations-and-screening (ISOS Membership # 11BCPA000272) International Air Transport Association (IATA) – COVID-19 Travel Regulations Map COVID-19 Conditions at Destination and Practical Factors State Department Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Stanford Travel, Vaccination, and Testing Policies COVID-19 Travel Policy Vaccination and booster requirements Stanford Resources Faculty, staff, students, and postdocs: Stanford’s Global Risk office provides advice and assistance with travel preparation, risk assessment, and mitigation strategies so that faculty, students, and staff can travel with self-awareness and confidence. For travel-related questions, please contact travel2020@lists.stanford.edu. Faculty and Staff: Stanford Environmental Health & Safety can provide pre-departure medical guidance and routine, itinerary-specific immunizations for faculty and staff. Please contact Stanford Occupational Health’s Travel Clinic to schedule an appointment. Students: Students are encouraged to contact Vaden Health Center’s Travel Clinic for a pre-departure medical consultation. ONGOING TRAVEL ASSISTANCE Travelers may benefit from global travel risk assessments and mitigation recommendations. This service is available through the Global Risk office (globalrisk@stanford.edu) and is particularly useful for: (1) Travel to higher-risk destinations (based on information from the U.S. Department of State, Centers for Disease Control, International SOS or other reliable sources of information for health, safety or security risks), (2) Group trips that include five or more travelers, and, (3) Travelers with particular vulnerabilities. Frequently asked questions Travel Find answers to common questions about business travel, cancellations, reimbursements etc. See all FAQs about travel Do Color tests fulfill travel test requirements? It depends on the destination and the test required. Color is a NAAT (nucleic acid amplification) RT-LAMP test. Color is not a RT-PCR test, so any destination that requires a PCR test will not accept a Color test. However, destinations… Read full answer about Do Color tests fulfill travel test requirements? I’d like to travel internationally for a vacation. What are the rules for my return to campus? Health & safetyPoliciesTravel Stanford recommends deferring international travel, even if you are vaccinated. If you plan to travel internationally, be alert to possible changes in countries’ travel restrictions (including testing on arrival and quarantine), as well as the new requirement to obtain a… Read full answer about I’d like to travel internationally for a vacation. What are the rules for my return to campus? Archived: My family lives overseas, and I would like to go home during the Thanksgiving break. What are the rules for my return? Health & safetyPoliciesTravel Under current policy, regardless of vaccination status, Stanford affiliates who travel to any location outside of the United States on personal or university-sponsored business must follow some protocols before returning to campus. All international travelers are required to… Read full answer about Archived: My family lives overseas, and I would like to go home during the Thanksgiving break. What are the rules for my return? Archived: I’m in a wedding outside California (but within the U.S.) in October. What are the rules for my return? Health & safetyPoliciesTravel Under current policy, there are no testing requirements following domestic travel. However, according to CDC recommendations, unvaccinated travelers are encouraged to test “3-5 days following their return and stay home and self-quarantine for a full seven days” following domestic… Read full answer about Archived: I’m in a wedding outside California (but within the U.S.) in October. What are the rules for my return? Do the university surveillance testing requirements apply during travel? FacultyGrad studentsPoliciesPostdocsStaffTravelUndergradsWorkplace & HR Faculty, staff, postdocs and graduate students are exempt from the university surveillance testing during travel, if such testing is impractical or impossible. Undergraduate students must follow the program testing requirements during travel. Travelers must adhere to campus access restrictions and… Read full answer about Do the university surveillance testing requirements apply during travel? I’m conducting research away from campus, or was planning to do so. What precautions should I take? Grad studentsHealth & safetyPostdocsPreventionResearchTravelWorking remotely You should carefully access your plans and discuss with your faculty advisor or PI to determine the best course of action. For example, you might consider postponing or restructuring your research plans to avoid travel and/or to reduce the number… Read full answer about I’m conducting research away from campus, or was planning to do so. What precautions should I take? Where can I find information about international student and scholar concerns? AcademicsHelp & supportInternational studentsLeave of absencePostdocsResearchers & research administratorsSpring quarterTravel Bechtel International Center has posted FAQ and is ready to assist individual students... Read full answer about Where can I find information about international student and scholar concerns? What international travel restrictions, including testing and quarantine requirements, should I be aware of? FacultyGrad studentsHealth & safetyPoliciesPostdocsStaffTravelUndergradsWorkplace & HR Please consider the following as you plan your international travel: Airline and international entry testing and quarantine requirements are continually changing at the local, national and international level, and require prior planning. Under current restrictions, for instance, U.S. citizens and non-citizens… Read full answer about What international travel restrictions, including testing and quarantine requirements, should I be aware of? On this page Returning to Stanford from travel FAQs about travel Returning to campus Stanford is beginning a phased recovery of university operations. We are currently in Stage 3 of the restart process. Learn more about Cardinal Recovery Stanford COVID-19 Health Alerts School-specific COVID-19 links School of Medicine COVID-19 Updates Stanford Law School Student Hub Stanford Law School Staff Hub Info for Stanford Earth students, faculty and staff Resources for faculty and staff in Humanities and Sciences Graduate School of Business Response to COVID-19 Campus health resources Vaden Health Center (for students) SU Occupational Health Center (for employees) Illness Prevention flyer (PDF) Self-isolation explainer (PDF) Tips for cleaning & disinfecting personal/shared workspace (PDF) Other COVID-19 resources CDC: Prevention & treatment CDC: FAQs CDC: Travel information WHO: COVID-19 outbreak Santa Clara County Public Health Information Subscribe to email alerts Subscribe to be notified by email on days when new announcements are posted on this website. Email Address (required) Contact us For questions related to Stanford's response to COVID-19, please email health-alerts@stanford.edu. To provide feedback about this website, please email digital-strategy@stanford.edu. Connect with us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.