Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Health Sciences Faculty Contact the College Academics Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Community Medicine Institute for Health Care Delivery Sciences Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa Schweitzer Fellowship Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Advising Departments & Schools Communication Sciences & Disorders Health Care Delivery Sciences Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Nursing Facilities Facilities Speech & Hearing Clinic Faculty Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Oxley College of Health Sciences Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Engaged Gardner receives Outstanding Teacher Award 918-631-2677 Health Sciences Facility, 519 Map https://youtu.be/FhYjV2hNIqQ KINESIOLOGY & REHABILITATIVE SCIENCES Kinesiology & Rehabilitative Sciences Athletic Training Exercise & Sports Science Undergraduate Program Accelerated Exercise & Sports Science to Master of Athletic Training Exercise Science Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department The Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences Department is housed within the College of Health Sciences. The department consists of both the athletic training and exercise and sports science programs. Each program has laboratory space for experiential learning activities. Students also engage in research studies with faculty in areas ranging from biomechanics, concussions and sports performance. Points of distinction for the Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences program: A wide variety of classes – Motor Control, Pedagogy of Outdoor Sports, Clinical Methodology Opportunities to focus on an area of interest related to the degree – e.g., curriculum/instruction or sport administration Study abroad opportunities – faculty-led programs and semester abroad options Interact daily with faculty who are active in their field and in professional associations Research opportunities as part of the Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) program The Department of Kinesiology and Rehabilitative Sciences (KRS) offers four tracks leading to an exercise and sports science degree. Graduates are prepared to work in a variety of current and emerging healthcare and fitness fields. The department also offers a master of science in athletic training, as well as an accelerated program which offer both the B.S. in Exercise and Sports Science and the M.A.T. (Master of Athletic Training). Degree Options Bachelor of Science in Exercise & Sports Science The program has the flexibility to prepare students for graduate or professional healthcare programs, such as medicine, physical therapy, occupational therapy, cardiac rehabilitation and athletic training or other fields related to exercise science within the corporate or commercial fitness setting. Master of Athletic Training The program is designed to provide structured didactic (classroom) and supervised practice experiences to prepare a student for an entry-level position in athletic training. Master of Athletic Training (Accelerated) The accelerated master’s program is designed for highly motivated students to earn hours towards a Master of Athletic Training (M.A.T.) while completing a Bachelor of Science in Exercise and Sports Science (B.S.E.S.S.). Minor in Coaching The coaching minor prepares students for coaching positions in a variety of athletic settings and is offered to non-exercise and sports science/athletic training majors. Minor in Exercise Science The minor provides students with the knowledge necessary to understand exercise and sports science concepts, such as functional movement, responses, and adaptations. The coursework increases a student’s knowledge base, enhances qualifications, provides competitive edge in the allied health, wellness or fitness world and builds credibility. Students who complete this minor are eligible to sit for the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA) Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS) or the NSCA Certified Personal Trainer (CPT) exams. Minor in Health Sciences The Health Sciences Minor is intended to provide students with a broader understanding of universal concepts related to health and healthcare. It is recommended for students from any major who plan to work in any aspect of healthcare. The coursework required for this academic minor allows students to tailor the 12 required credit hours from a list of courses that represent a variety of health and healthcare related disciplines. Practice Settings Sports Medicine Clinics Orthopedic Clinics Hospitals/Medical Centers Universities/Colleges/High Schools Recreational Centers Military Organized Sports Internships Opportunities Internship opportunities in KRS are the culminating experience in which each student can apply classroom studies to real-world situations. Internships through The University of Tulsa ExSS program include: Fitness Facilities (Corporate/Private/Community) Hospital Wellness Strength and Conditioning (High School/University) Cardiac and Pulmonary Rehabilitation Physical/Occupational Therapy Chiropractic Outdoor Recreation Physical Education Teaching Sports/Recreation Retail Professional Athletics Activity for Individuals with Physical Challenges University Intramural/Recreation Medical Centers Community Service Providers (Fire/Police) Our Alumni Alumni have careers in a wide variety of settings, including: College/university strength and conditioning coaches Corporate wellness Pharmaceutical sales Community activity programming Fitness facility management K-12 physical education teaching K-16 coaching Many graduates continue their education in graduate school, including programs in: Exercise Science/Exercise Physiology Biomechanics Professional programs – e.g., Chiropractic, Dental, Physical Therapy, Physician Assistant and Medical School Education – e.g., Foundations, Theory, Teaching 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT